

1 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Another Voice Warns of an Innovation Slowdown

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif. 

 BODY:
Judy Estrin, 53, has spent her entire career in Silicon Valley, a region that thrives on constant innovation. Ms. Estrin, the former chief technology officer of Cisco Systems, has founded four technology companies. 
 Yet she is deeply worried that Silicon Valley -- and the United States as a whole -- no longer foster the kind of innovation necessary to develop groundbreaking technologies and sustain economic growth. 
 ''I am generally not an alarmist, but I have become more and more concerned about the state of our country and its innovation,'' she said last week, explaining why she wrote her book, ''Closing the Innovation Gap,'' which arrives in bookstores Tuesday. ''We have a national innovation deficit.'' 
 Ms. Estrin's book is the latest call to action during the last several years by scientists, technologists and political leaders worried about the country's future competitiveness in technology.
 In 2005, the National Academies published ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm,'' a report requested by Congress, which found that federal financing of research in the physical sciences was 45 percent less in 2004 than in 1976 and that 93 percent of students in grades five through eight learn science from teachers who do not hold degrees or certifications in the topics. In 2007, the book ''Innovation Nation'' by John Kao, a business consultant, revived the debate. 
 And this year, both presidential candidates have made government support of innovation and technology a central part of their campaign platforms.
 Still, not all technology watchers agree with Ms. Estrin about the extent of the innovation problem -- or whether there is a problem at all. 
 ''The whole innovation crisis thing is a bit overblown,'' said Paul Saffo, a technology forecaster. Innovation in the natural world, in the form of mutation, is lethal, so species do it only when they are under dire stress, he said. ''What makes Silicon Valley unique is that this place has stumbled onto a way to sustain innovation even when the place is doing well,'' he said. 
 Ms. Estrin argues that short-term thinking and a reluctance to take risks are causing a noticeable lag in innovation. She cites a variety of contributing factors. A decline in federal and university financing for research has dried up new ideas, she said. When research does produce new technologies, entrepreneurs and the venture capitalists who back them have been too cautious to make big bets -- especially after the costly failures of the dot-com bust. If start-up companies do find financing, she said, new regulations make it hard for them to grow, and the focus of investors on short-term performance discourages companies from taking risks. 
 Ms. Estrin's suggestions for bolstering innovation range from the vague, like advising venture capitalists and entrepreneurs to take more risks, to the specific, like mandating that schools pay teachers higher salaries. 
 Some of her prescriptions are unlikely to become reality, like her idea for a new government body modeled after the Federal Reserve that sets science policy without Congressional input. 
 Some thinkers on innovation agree with Ms. Estrin's assessment. ''There is a remarkable telescoping in of vision and an unwillingness to make long-term bets,'' said Vinton G. Cerf, the chief Internet evangelist at Google. 
 Mr. Cerf led the development of the networking protocols that form the basic architecture of the Internet, a project to which Ms. Estrin contributed as a graduate student. He points to the Internet as an example of the need for long-term research and financing, since development of the technology used to transmit data online required two decades of government support. 
 Robert Compton, a venture capitalist and entrepreneur, said that the United States is losing its innovation edge to China and India. Chinese and Indian children are required to take more science courses than students in the United States, said Mr. Compton, who recently produced a documentary comparing high school education in the three countries. Of college graduates, 30 percent to 45 percent in India and China have engineering degrees, compared with 5 percent in the United States. Venture financing and patent applications are falling in Europe and the United States and rising in China and India, he said.
 Most alarming to Mr. Compton is that 60 percent of engineering doctorates from American universities are granted to foreign nationals, but they are no longer staying here to work. ''The American economy is not as exciting as China and India, and a lot of them are going back home,'' he said. 
 Ms. Estrin and others acknowledge that the recent surge in financing for alternative energy companies is a sign that innovation is alive and well in some sectors. Still, she is concerned that investors will not have the patience to build these companies. 
 ''If they treat these companies the same way they treated others -- a couple years in, they need to see returns or cut the burn rate or start cutting people -- they are not going to get to where we need to go,'' she said. 
 Some who track innovation in the United States say the alarm bells are unnecessary and sound like a repeat of similar fears in past decades that turned out to be unfounded. 
 A June study from the RAND Corporation found that 40 percent of the world's spending on scientific research and development comes from the United States. The country employs 70 percent of the world's Nobel Prize winners and is home to 75 percent of the top 40 universities. 
 ''The United States is still the world leader in science and technology,'' said the study's co-author, James Hosek. 
 But Ms. Estrin said that the technologies at the root of new products like Apple's iPod or the Facebook social networking service were actually developed several decades ago. If a new round of fundamental innovation isn't seeded now, the country will suffer in the next decade.
 She compared the situation to a tree that appears to be growing well, but whose roots are rotting underground. 
 ''Too much of it is short-term, incremental innovation, and the roots of the tree aren't happy,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judy Estrin founded four technology companies and wrote ''Closing the Innovation Gap.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); STARTUPS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); BOOKSTORES (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (64%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (91%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



2 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Major Economic Reports for the Week

 BODY:
LABOR DAY HOLIDAY Markets, banks and government offices will be closed in observance of Labor Day (Monday).
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS Industrial and productivity data will dominate the economic calendar this week. Reports will include the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for August and construction spending for July (Tuesday); factory orders for July and the Federal Reserve's beige book for August (Wednesday); revised second-quarter productivity and costs and the Institute for Supply Management's service index for August (Thursday); and unemployment for August (Friday). 
 COMPANY EARNINGS It is a light week for earnings, with reports coming from H&R Block, Hovnanian Enterprises and Staples (Wednesday); and Campbell Soup, Jackson Hewitt Tax Service, Take-Two Interactive and Toll Brothers (Thursday).
 THE REGULATORS The president of the Kansas City Federal Reserve, Thomas M. Hoenig, will speak about financial turmoil at an event in Buenos Aires sponsored by the Central Bank of Argentina (Monday).
 The president of the Boston Fed, Eric S. Rosengren, left, will give an economic briefing to New Hampshire's state leaders in Manchester (Wednesday).
 INDUSTRY REPORTS Researchers are scheduled to present the results of a patient study for the cholesterol-lowering drug Vytorin at the European Society of Cardiology's annual meeting (Tuesday).
 Automakers will release their sales for August (Wednesday).
 Retailers will report their same-store sales for August (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); RETAILERS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); CARDIOLOGY (66%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (65%); CHOLESTEROL (51%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (56%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (56%); H & R BLOCK INC (56%); JACKSON HEWITT TAX SERVICE INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (55%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (56%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (56%); HRB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (68%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



3 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Pangs of Seller's Remorse In Bruised Miami Market

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Yolanne Almanzar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
For sale: one newly constructed three-bedroom, four-bathroom home near the University of Miami, with South African wood in the kitchen, marble from India, Egypt and Spain, and a $4,500 top-of-the-line garage door. 
 Listing price two years ago: $979,000. Listing price now: $599,000. 
 ''I always figured the market trend wouldn't catch me,'' said Rafael Diaz, the owner and builder. He turned down $770,000 more than a year ago, he said, and has come to accept that he will never get the $700,000 he said he needed to break even. ''By the end of the year,'' he said, ''I might just turn it over to the bank.''
 Homeowners are struggling nationwide. But here in South Florida, the reversal of fortune has been especially severe, scrambling the psychology of a community that has historically treated real estate as a game of how-rich-can-you-get. 
 Overdeveloped and still building, this remains a place where conversations about the market are sugared with a rush of dreams and speculation. Now, though, people start with ''if only I had sold when,'' rather than ''I should have bought.'' 
 Home values in the Miami area rose reliably for 86 consecutive quarters, or 21 years, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. Then last fall, they started dropping.
 The declines have been significant. The widely respected Case-Shiller index reported last week that prices of previously owned single-family homes in Miami fell by 28.3 percent over the last year, second only to Las Vegas, where home prices dropped 28.6 percent. 
 Analysts said it could take another year before the local market stabilizes. 
 ''It flew the highest and the farthest during the boom days, and now it is falling the hardest,'' said Michael D. Larson, a real estate analyst with Weiss Research, an investing research firm in Jupiter, Fla.
 Much of the downward pressure has come from banks trying to offload distressed properties. Foreclosures have received the most attention, but Florida real estate agents also recently added a field in their listings database for ''short sales'' -- properties with an asking price below the amount due on a mortgage, in which the lender often forgives the remaining debt to complete the sale. 
 As of last week, 24 percent of the roughly 34,000 single-family homes for sale in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties -- and 20 percent of the 47,000 condominiums -- were listed as potential short sales. 
 Homeowners trying to compete say they often feel flabbergasted by the competition. Alexandra Swanberg said she reduced the price of her 1,482-square-foot town house to $245,000, from $287,000 last year, to keep up with the dozens of for-sale signs sprouting throughout her middle-class South Miami neighborhood. 
 ''Everyone has been in a panic,'' Ms. Swanberg said. ''The Realtors are crazy; they want you to drop the price really low.''
 Ms. Swanberg, 52, acknowledged that she could afford it. Like many homeowners, the losses of the last few months have not erased the gains of two decades. She said she bought the house 19 years ago for $60,000, and she plans to move to the Orlando area simply because she feels it is time to move on. But when a real estate agent recently told her to cut the price to $225,000, she angrily refused.
 ''It's a large unit, three huge bedrooms, large windows,'' she said. ''This is not something you want to give away.'' 
 For many sellers, the culture of constantly rising real estate prices has been hard to shake, and now a new condition has appeared: seller's regret, or flashbacks to offers past. 
 Ms. Swanberg, who works in public relations, has spent a lot of time recalling early offers of around $270,000 that she rejected. 
 Mr. Diaz still thinks longingly of his first potential buyer, whose offer of $770,000 he turned down near the end of 2006.
 ''I should have taken it,'' Mr. Diaz said, his voice echoing inside the empty home he visits every few days to clean. ''I guess I was a little cocky, or stupid.'' 
 Just across the street stood another sign of his self-described ''craziness,'' a two-bedroom bungalow he had planned to tear down to make room for another new home. He had been renting the house for $1,300 a month, but it has been empty since May. 
 ''There is just too much on the market,'' he said. 
 In fact, it is common for apartments and homes here to simultaneously be for rent and for sale. And rentals, which have historically made up about a quarter of all transactions in the area, have come to dominate. Roughly two out of every three deals in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale corridor since January have been rentals, according to data from the Florida Association of Realtors. 
 In a market reliant on demand for optional second homes, and with prices still falling, buyers have taken on an attitude of wait-and-see. Real estate agents across the region say that the typical purchase now comes only after three months of looking and three months of negotiations. 
 ''There are more qualified buyers sitting on the sidelines than in the 35 years I've been doing this,'' said Ron Shuffield, president of Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell Realtors, which has consolidated to 11 offices from 14 because of the downturn. ''We're renting $2 million homes to people who haven't rented a home in 20 years.'' 
 Andrea Heuson, a professor of finance at the University of Miami, said the local real estate industry had suddenly been forced to relearn economic lessons long forgotten. ''The 'rent vs. buy decision' is something you used to see in old real estate textbooks; the new ones don't even have it in there because for so long it was obvious that you should buy, not rent,'' she said. 
 Many owners, like Pasquale Pisana, 38, who works in marketing, have become unexpected landlords. About a year ago, he bought a new two-bedroom condo in downtown Miami for $285,000. He planned to move in as soon as he sold his apartment north of the city, which he put on the market for $349,000. 
 But no one bought it, he said, though ''we've been close three to five times.'' It is now listed for $238,000. Mr. Pisana still lives there while he rents the new condo downtown for a discount. 
 ''We're losing money,'' he said. ''We didn't know it was going to be this bad. We didn't know it was going to be so stressful.'' 
 There are of course winners, too: buyers like Tisha Medina, an inventory manager at a local nursery, who says she looks forward to owning her first home; and real estate agents like Grant Gannon of Urbaniza Realty in Coral Gables, which focuses on short sales and has hired several employees to deal with growing demand.
 The very rich also seem to be largely unaffected. Mr. Shuffield at Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell said that nearly a third of his firm's sales this year had been all-cash transactions. Properties selling for more than $1 million, agents said, were far better off than those being sold for $500,000 and below. 
 And in some of the recent data, a smattering of good, or less bad, news has appeared. Sales volume, for instance, appears to have stabilized across the state after months of declines. 
 But that is not enough for many. After 25 years and 40 or so homes built and sold, Mr. Diaz said he had left real estate for farming. When he is not making sure vandals have not damaged the house that just will not sell he is out in the fields with his fruit trees south of Miami. 
 Even the five-acre farm has lost about $200,000 of its value. ''This is the worst time I've ever seen,'' he said. ''This is brutal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rafael Diaz has cut his asking price by more than a third for this home he built in Miami. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXISTING HOME SALES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (90%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



4 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LINESVILLE JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Where Carp Feed, And Ducks Walk Across Their Backs

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: LINESVILLE, Pa. 

 BODY:
Just outside this town of about 1,100 is one of the oddest roadside attractions in America, one that the state wants to alter much to the consternation of most of the 500,000 people who come to enjoy it each year and of the businesses that depend on it.
 The visitors, hauling bags of bread, go to the edge of the spillway at Pymatuning Lake. Children and adults alike race to the railings, where carp by the thousands, no, tens of thousands, maybe millions -- guessing how many is part of the standard experience -- gather and surge collectively out of the water at the slightest hint that someone might be tossing them a piece of bread, bagel or hot dog bun. 
 ''It's like the Niagara Falls of Linesville,'' said Bob Semian, co-owner of the Spillway restaurant here. ''It's just so unusual, people have to come.'' 
 But starting on Jan. 1, the Bureau of State Parks wants people to end the 70-year-old practice of throwing bread and instead throw fish pellets ''for the health of the entire park,'' said Pete Houghton, the manager of Pymatuning State Park, in northwestern Pennsylvania.
 After the park announced the change a month ago, the reaction was swift and nearly unanimous.
 ''Why do they have to ruin a good thing?'' asked Charlotte Kimple, owner of the Driftwood restaurant in Linesville, where she has collected hundreds of signatures on a petition opposing the change. ''The fun is the fish jumping up for the bread. They're not going to jump up for any darn pellet. 
 ''If they do it, they might as well roll up Linesville and close the doors.''
 As the carp scramble over the mud-brown backs of one another, their mouths open and widen and make a hollow sucking sound as the bread hits the water -- a sound that, as one child here put it, is just plain ''creepy.''
 ''It's cool!'' Nathan Uphouse, 7, who was visiting for the first time with his parents from Akron, Ohio, said in a reaction typical of anyone under, say, 90. ''I like it when they flip their tails in the water going for the bread.'' 
 So much bread is thrown and so many carp gather that fowl also come to get a free bite, which is part of the problem.
 Frequently, when a torrent of bread hits the water, mallard ducks walk over the backs of the carp to get a slice in a man-made version of a symbiotic relationship.
 It is that fantastical scene that has become the basis for much of the local tourist industry.
 Linesville's motto, seen on signs entering the borough, is ''Where the Ducks Walk on Fishes.'' The local volunteer fire department and the regional sewer authority use logos of a duck standing on the back of a fish. The spillway's concession stand, the most lucrative stand in the park, sells T-shirts with a similar image.
 Though no one is sure exactly who started the practice, it began almost as soon as hundreds of men with shovels turned a former swamp and onion patch into the 17,000-acre lake in 1933 and the carp began massing near the spillway during spawning season.
 Mr. Houghton said part of the reason to switch to pellets was because trash -- plastic bread bags and ties primarily -- and other food were being thrown into the lake. But there is a more unsavory motive.
 ''I received 94 written complaints, and 10 times that many in person, last year about fecal matter on beaches and campgrounds,'' Mr. Houghton said. ''And we had people say they were never coming back. We had to do something.''
 Most of the feces is from other winged bread lovers, Canada geese, who sit in a ring beyond the fish and mallards and wait for their share.
 A year ago, the Bureau of State Parks paid $92,000 to the federal Department of Agriculture to send in a team of experts to harass the geese, drive them away and addle their eggs to reduce future generations.
 The effort largely worked. ''People this year said they finally saw people lying on beaches again,'' Mr. Houghton said.
 But the Agriculture Department said it would do the work only if the park stopped the practice of feeding the fish altogether. The state said it could not do so and would try instead to make people use fish pellets, which are believed to be less appetizing to the geese.
 Allowing people to feed wildlife is virtually unheard of in state or federal parks across the country, and Pennsylvania does not allow it anywhere else in its 117 state parks.
 State Representative Michele Brooks, who represents part of the region and has fond memories of feeding the carp as a child, is predicting economic disaster if the change stands.
 ''It's Crawford County's No. 1 attraction, and it's been a long-standing tradition for millions of families,'' said Ms. Brooks, who has organized a public meeting with the state on Sept. 8 to debate the change. ''There's going to be unintended consequences on the local area and tourism. I don't want that to happen.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Pymatuning Lake in northwestern Pennsylvania, carp go into a feeding frenzy as tourists drop bread into the water. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (72%); PETITIONS (64%); TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



5 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Under the Table, Under the Boardwalk

BYLINE: By NIKO KOPPEL

 BODY:
With high-rise projects stretching against the horizon, sea gulls pecking at drifting refuse and more cigarette butts than seashells in the sand, Brooklyn's beaches are not exactly known for their resortlike experience. 
 But on Brighton Beach, sunbathers can have a taste of cabana-style service by motioning to a hulking figure lugging a worn bag in each hand up and down the hot sand. ''Ladies, open your pocketbooks; you don't drink water, you die,'' said the man with the bags, Ferrone Malone, 41, his forehead glistening with sweat on Sunday afternoon. Mr. Malone, who grew up in the Carey Gardens housing project in Coney Island, said he had sold water, beer and soda at the beach for as long as he could remember.
 ''The pivo's free,'' said Mr. Malone, using the Russian word for beer. ''It's the service you pay for.'' According to Mr. Malone, who said he worked as a custodian in Brooklyn public schools, his father began the hustle in the early 1960s, selling pretzels and juices, and it became a family business, providing summer jobs for many of his children, cousins and nephews. 
 Mr. Malone, who still works with his brother, says there are about 20 other vendors to compete with. ''You can make money anywhere on this beach,'' he said.
 ''It's an honest hustle,'' said another vendor, who declined to give a name because of the unlawful nature of the business. ''People have been doing this business for as long as I can remember.''
 So Brooklyn, just like the more upscale retreats of the Hamptons, Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard, has a vibrant seasonal economy. But in Brooklyn, it is often an underground economy, with men and women, many otherwise unemployed, selling everything from home-cooked tamales to bait and tackle. 
 Facing the entrance to the New York Aquarium in Coney Island, Carmelo Ocasio, 43, paunchy with pinkish skin, hawks bottles of cold water for $1. He usually delivers his pitch in English, but easily switches into Spanish and Russian. Mr. Ocasio, a janitor at Coney Island Hospital, began working the beach last summer after noticing that bottles of water went for $2 on the Boardwalk.
 ''When I come here with my kids, I can't afford a bottle of water on my salary,'' said Mr. Ocasio, who started in June and plans to work until October. He sells for a few hours after work and all day on weekends, paying $6.50 for a 24-pack of water bottles and earning upward of $300 on a good day. 
 Fastened to the Boardwalk's railing are forest-green signs warning that vending or engaging in any commercial activity except by permit is a violation of city parks department rules. Alcohol also is illegal, illustrated with a slash across a martini glass with an olive in it. 
 With pushcart permits costing $2,500 to $3,500 a year and with most general vendor licenses from the Department of Consumer Affairs going to veterans, Mr. Ocasio, like most of the vendors here, forgoes legitimate credentials. He keeps an eye out for parks department security and police officers who regularly pass by in golf carts, confiscating vendors' goods and issuing summonses with fines ranging from $25 to $200.
 ''Sometimes the cops give us a hard time, but you got to survive somehow,'' he said, standing a few feet from his supply of water in a chipped plastic foam cooler on a bench, which he restocked from a reserve hidden under the Boardwalk. ''All I'm trying to do is make a living.'' 
 Two police officers strolled down the Boardwalk, approaching Juan Cortez, 35, an immigrant from Oaxaca, Mexico, who sells mangoes speared on sticks for $2, while between jobs. His wife acts as a lookout, and in an instinctive choreography, she said, ''Policia.'' Mr. Cortez, who lives in Jackson Heights, Queens, draped a towel over his improvised stand like a magician, and began playing with his daughter Isabella, who was running around the Boardwalk. 
 Despite continuous cat-and-mouse games, the vendors return each day to this faded landscape of high-wattage bulbs and weather-beaten signs promising fantasies and thrills, and where risk and reward go hand in hand. 
 ''I see them every year,'' said Ardit Cela, 21, a Coney Island lifeguard for three years. ''They work very hard for the money.'' But he added that he sometimes heard complaints about beer being sold to under-age customers. 
 Surrounded by fishermen casting their lines, Noreida Garcia, 48, a short woman with silver hair pulled back, worked with her 18-year-old daughter, Taty, on the Steeplechase Pier. ''It's a therapy; I get out of the house and get to feel the breeze,'' she said.
 A former resident of Coney Island, Ms. Garcia commutes from Staten Island with a cart topped by a quilted jacket that conceals garbage bags filled with water ($1), Pepsi ($1), Budweiser ($2) and Corona ($3). With summer ending, Ms. Garcia, who does not work much the rest of the year, said, ''We fall back in the winter but we always have a Plan B.''
 Also working the pier was Aurelio Ramirez, 46, who was shirtless, his eyes hidden by reflective lenses. Since 1989, Mr. Ramirez has sold cans of Coors and Budweiser every summer. At intervals, he dances to salsa blaring from a boom box, and poses for pictures by tourists. ''It's a competition,'' he said, ''but we always look forward to the next summer when we're reunited.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ferrone Malone said his father began vending at Brighton Beach in Brooklyn in the 1960s, and it became a family venture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES )
Near the New York Aquarium, Carmelo Ocasio retrieved a cooler from a secret stockroom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Taty Garcia was selling cold drinks from a covered cart on Steeplechase Pier with her mother, Noreida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); BEER & ALE (77%); RETAILERS (74%); FAMILY (74%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); SEASONAL WORKERS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (67%); FAMILY COMPANIES (66%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



6 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: The Giants Add Needed Depth at Defensive End

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- Defensive end Jerome McDougle drove up the New Jersey Turnpike Saturday night, his stint on the N.F.L. unemployment line lasting only until he reached Giants Stadium. 
 McDougle, a former first-round draft pick by the Philadelphia Eagles who was released Saturday, signed with the Giants on Sunday, providing them badly needed depth at a position that had once been their greatest strength.
 ''It is great,'' McDougle said Sunday. ''Defending Super Bowl champs -- I look good in blue.'' 
 McDougle was considered something of a bust for the Eagles, for whom he never started and had just three sacks in 33 career games. He was the 15th overall selection in the 2003 draft, but his career has been hampered by a series of injuries, the most notable of which came in 2005, when he missed the entire season after being shot during a robbery. A triceps injury kept him out of the 2007 season. 
 But Coach Tom Coughlin is obsessed with a pass rush that can get up the field to pressure the quarterback and McDougle had a superb preseason in Philadelphia with two and a half sacks. The Giants were especially impressed by how he played against the Patriots' starters in a preseason game. 
 McDougle, who was signed to a one-year contract, will play in the defensive end rotation on passing downs with the starters Justin Tuck and Mathias Kiwanuka. When he was coming out of the University of Miami, the Giants had hoped to draft him. 
 ''He can be part of any third-down or second-and-long package,'' Coughlin said. ''Some attention had to be spent on the defensive end spot. We think this is going to be a real good investment.''
 The Giants' sudden woes at what was, until Osi Umenyiora sustained a season-ending knee injury a week ago, their most dominant position have contributed to a sense that they are a diminished team from the one that won the Super Bowl. 
 Even though the offense is intact and enhanced by receiver Plaxico Burress's return to good health, as the Giants began preparing for their regular-season opener against the Redskins on Sunday, they are decidedly less than favorites to repeat. They have been eclipsed as favorites in the National Football Conference East by the Dallas Cowboys, who are a chic pick to go to the Super Bowl. The Giants have even slipped behind the four-win Jets in the local headlines since Brett Favre's arrival. The team the Giants defeated in the Super Bowl, New England, is routinely picked to return to the Super Bowl.
 ''That's fine by us,'' quarterback Eli Manning said. ''If everybody wants to talk about other teams, that's fine.''
 He might be right. The Giants were discounted last season -- the 3-5 home record did not help -- and flourished most during their under-the-radar march to the Super Bowl. 
 Defending champions do not stay anonymous for long, though, and for the offense especially, the expectations will be elevated this season, particularly because Burress, who said he felt better than he had in at least a year, will finally be able to make cuts again. With the defense in transition, the onus will be on the offense to buoy the Giants. Guard Chris Snee knows what to expect if things start slowly. How long does it take for the Super Bowl champions to be booed at home? Snee said he heard it in the preseason.
 Burress said: ''Nobody has a lot of respect for us, even when we won the Super Bowl. Everything was a fluke. The guy catches the ball on his helmet was a fluke; we go down on a two-minute drive was a fluke. It's a real slap in the face for us. Coming into the season, we have a lot to play for. Our backs are always against the wall. We're better when we're that way.''
 EXTRA POINTS
 For those going to Thursday night's game at Giants Stadium, the Giants offer some advice: Leave now. Playing the N.F.L. kickoff game on a Thursday at the home of the Super Bowl champions seemed like a good idea until this year. The confluence of the New York-area rush hour (kickoff is at 7 p.m., 90 minutes earlier than usual so that the game does not conflict with Senator John McCain's scheduled address to the Republican National Convention) and the construction mayhem at the Meadowlands figures to create, the Giants acknowledge, a parking and traffic nightmare. The only parking allowed on the grounds is by pre-paid permit. All fans without those permits should follow signs to satellite lots in Lyndhurst, N.J., or take public transportation.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the Giants' signing of defensive end Jerome McDougle misstated the date of the team's regular-season opener. It was on Thursday night; it will not be on Sunday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Giants signed Jerome McDougle to a one-year contract Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM MIHALEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (88%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); ATHLETES (71%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); SHOOTINGS (68%); ROBBERY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



7 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Low Temperatures

 BODY:
The price of home heating oil has dropped from a peak of over $4.60 a gallon, but it is still about 40 percent higher than it was a year ago. That could mean painful choices for some Americans this winter -- between heat and balanced meals or between heat and medicines. 
 While everybody will suffer from high energy costs, people with oil heat -- about eight million households, many in the Northeast -- are especially vulnerable. Users of natural gas or electric heat from a local utility are generally protected by law from shutoffs, but people who can't pay their private oil suppliers are not. 
 The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program is designed to provide help for such people. About six million households were helped last year; the average grant was over $300. With even higher prices, the program will obviously need more resources this winter. But a bill to appropriate an additional $2.5 billion failed in July, a casualty of partisan infighting over opening coastal areas to offshore drilling. The Democrats will try again this month when they seek to add up to $2.5 billion for the program to the supplemental appropriations bill. 
 Some states aren't waiting for Washington. Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut, a Republican, called the legislature into special session last month to set aside $75 million in energy aid. The measure passed unanimously. Maine's governor, John Baldacci, a Democrat, reshuffled funds from all corners of state government to provide a $12.6 million pool to help residents pay for heat. Obviously the states can't solve this problem on their own. 
 If fundamental human needs are not enough to get Congress to do the right thing, perhaps the specter of a worsening recession is. In a recent poll of people 45 and older, more than half said they expected that high energy bills would cause them to spend less during the holidays; 29 percent said energy costs would cut into back-to-school spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



8 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Oil and Gas Production Is Suspended, but Prices Are Stable

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Andrew Martin contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Energy companies shut down production and refining operations throughout the weekend in preparation for an intensifying Hurricane Gustav to hit in the heart of the Gulf of Mexico oil patch.
 The Gulf Coast region accounts for about 25 percent of domestic oil production and nearly 15 percent of natural gas output, so severe damage to platforms and refineries could cause gasoline prices to spike for several weeks or more, as it did after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005.
 The storm's approach caused crude oil prices to increase in a special early trading session at the New York Mercantile Exchange on Sunday. By late in the evening, crude oil had risen 72 cents, to $116.18 a barrel, and gasoline had increased 5.4 cents, to about $2.91 a gallon. But natural gas futures were down 20.6 cents, to $7.737 per million British thermal units. 
 It may take as long as a week for production to return to normal, even if there is minimal damage to platforms and refineries. Companies typically wait until a storm passes before doing an aerial reconnaissance to assess damage to platforms and other facilities, and then it can take several days to airlift employees to their work stations.
 Gustav is headed directly toward about 3,000 oil and gas platforms, although it appears that its eye is veering away from several important refineries along the Texas coast. The hurricane represents the first test for oil company executives who have said their platforms are far more storm-resistant than they were three years ago.
 More anchor lines have been installed on rigs and platforms, and equipment has been raised higher out of the water. Many older platforms that were paralyzed by the 2005 storms remain out of commission, while new stronger platforms have been constructed.
 Some companies took several months to restore their operations after the 2005 hurricanes, in part because their electrical and diesel generators, communications and other logistical systems were damaged and because key personnel were preoccupied with having lost their homes in the storms. But the companies say that this time logistical systems have been improved along with support for staff members whose families may be affected by the hurricane. 
 ''The production bounce-back time is going to be much faster than last time,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, an oil expert at Rice University.
 So far, gasoline prices across the nation have risen only modestly the last few days, even though about 96 percent of Gulf oil production and 82 percent of natural gas production had been shut down by midday Sunday, according to the federal Minerals Management Service. AAA reported on Sunday that the average price for unleaded regular gasoline was $3.69, about half a cent higher than on Saturday and still 20 cents below a month ago.
 Ms. Jaffe said oil prices were relatively stable because the Bush administration said last week it was willing to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to avert a disruption in supplies. Although gasoline use rose over the weekend to fuel the evacuation of southern Louisiana, she added that traders were still convinced that demand for oil products over all was falling. 
 Over the first six months of the year, oil consumption was down by 130,000 barrels a day, or 1.5 percent, because of slower economic activity and because people were beginning to drive less and drive smaller cars in response to higher gasoline prices.
 Electronic trading in energy futures normally begins at 6 p.m. on Sundays to coincide with the opening of Asian markets, but because of the approaching hurricane, electronic trading began at 2:30 p.m. Sunday to allow traders to ease their risks.
 ''We wanted to provide our customers with the opportunity to respond to the storm's potential impact to energy markets as quickly as possible,'' Bryan Durkin, chief operating officer for the CME Group, said in a statement. The CME Group runs the New York exchange.
 With the eye of the hurricane seeming to be headed for the Louisiana coast, ConocoPhillips prepared to shut down all operations at its Lake Charles and Belle Chasse, La., refineries by Monday morning. Exxon Mobil said it would shut down its refinery at Chalmette, La., which it operates jointly with Citgo, a unit of the Venezuelan national oil company. Valero said it was suspending production of its Norco, La., refinery, and slowing production at two Texas refineries.
 BP, Royal Dutch Shell and other major producers announced a halt to offshore operations. 
 All told, about a dozen refineries have either shut down or reduced output, representing about 10 percent of refinery production in the United States.
 Though electronic trading was moved up to an earlier start on Sunday, floor trading remained closed.
 Esa Ramasamy, editorial director for oil market reporting at Platts, a provider of energy and commodities information, welcomed the exchange's decision to start early. On Friday, many traders were still unsure whether the storm would intensify or dissipate, and by Sunday they were more sure that the storm would hit the refineries along the Gulf Coast.
 ''Anything to serve the market is always a good idea,'' he said. ''This allows players to hedge their positions. It only helps to stabilize the market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); WEATHER (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); FUTURES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



9 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Meatpacker In Brooklyn Challenges A Union Vote

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Agriprocessors, the Brooklyn-based company that is the nation's largest kosher meat producer, is well known for the labor troubles at its meatpacking plant in Iowa -- federal agents detained 389 of its workers as illegal immigrants in May, and labor officials in Iowa have accused it of employing 57 under-age workers.
 But Agriprocessors is also having labor troubles closer to home, with the company asking the United States Supreme Court to overturn a vote to unionize at its distribution center along the Brooklyn waterfront. 
 If successful, the company's appeal could have repercussions at companies across the country: it is trying to persuade the Supreme Court to rule that illegal immigrants do not have the right to join labor unions. 
 In September 2005, the company's Brooklyn employees voted 15 to 5 to unionize, with one ballot challenged. The workers, most of them immigrants from Mexico, complained of low pay, not receiving time-and-a-half for overtime and not having health insurance or paid holidays. 
 ''It was a dirty place to work, and they treated some of the workers real bad,'' said Lucilo Brito, a former Agriprocessors truck driver. 
 Days after the vote, Agriprocessors stunned its employees by announcing that it would not recognize the union because, it said, it had just discovered that 17 of the workers were illegal immigrants. 
 The National Labor Relations Board nonetheless ordered Agriprocessors to recognize the union, Local 342 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, citing a 1984 Supreme Court ruling that affirmed the right of illegal immigrants to join unions.
 Agriprocessors appealed the labor board's order, with one of its lawyers, Richard Howard, telling the board, ''This should not be a valid vote for representation'' because ''they're not documented workers and not allowed to work.''
 After Agriprocessors refused to deal with the union, 14 of the workers went on strike for seven weeks. The company responded by firing the strikers. (During the strike, union officials said, management hired day laborers from a nearby street corner, many of them illegal immigrants.)
 The labor board continues to insist that Agriprocessors recognize the union. Lawyers for the board and union argue that it is foolish for the company to appeal the 1984 decision, in which the Supreme Court ruled that illegal immigrant workers fall within the definition of ''employee'' in the National Labor Relations Act and thus have the right to join unions.
 ''Whether people are undocumented or not, they deserve to have some union represent them,'' said Lisa O'Leary, executive vice president of Local 342, which represents 10,000 meat, poultry and seafood workers in the New York area. ''That will help reduce the abuses that undocumented workers face.''
 The Agriprocessors distribution center is one of 20 or so meat wholesalers at the Brooklyn Terminal Market at First Avenue near 56th Street in Sunset Park, where there are two long rows of low-lying buildings with meat hooks hanging above the loading docks. All but a handful of the meat companies are unionized.
 Connected to the Agriprocessors center are two refrigeration trailers that hum 24 hours a day, and parked outside are trucks painted with the company's main retail logo, Aaron's Best.
 Ante Vulin, a butcher at International Glatt Kosher Meats, a unionized wholesaler directly across from Agriprocessors, said belonging to the union meant higher pay and better benefits.
 ''What's the purpose of leaving here when you don't get more at another place?'' said Mr. Vulin, who earns $20.25 an hour after 20 years on the job.
 David Young, an organizer with Local 342, said it was easy to get Agriprocessors' workers to vote to unionize because they had talked with workers at other distribution centers and seen the fruits of unionizing. 
 The manager of the Agriprocessors distribution center refused to comment about workplace conditions or the litigation. A company lawyer, Arnold Kaufman, said it would be inappropriate to comment during litigation -- the company is hoping the Supreme Court will hear its appeal. 
 During the organizing drive in 2005, Agriprocessors fought hard to defeat the union. One worker said managers told him: ''The union is not good. Everything they say is a lie.''
 The company, the labor board asserted, improperly fired two workers for supporting the union. Moreover, the board said, management sought to block the workers from voting for the United Food and Commercial Workers, by announcing one day that a majority of its drivers had signed up with a union known for working closely with employers, Local 17-18 of the United Production Workers.
 Several workers said management representatives had pressured them to sign cards supporting Local 17-18, and had done so after management told the labor relations board that a majority of workers had already signed cards backing that union.
 Labor board officials dismissed the company's efforts to steer its employees into Local 17-18 as a charade. It ordered the secret-ballot vote to proceed, and the workers voted to join the United Food and Commercial Workers. 
 When Agriprocessors said it would ignore the vote because it had discovered that most employees were in the country illegally, the union insisted the company was acting in bad faith.
 ''They knew all along they were hiring undocumented workers,'' said Mr. Young, the organizer. (He wondered why, if the company was suddenly so concerned about employing illegal immigrants, it did not conduct similar checks at its Iowa plant.)
 Agriprocessors officials said they had no idea their Brooklyn employees were illegal immigrants, insisting that they had been fooled because the workers presented fraudulent documents. Agriprocessors officials said the same thing after the immigration raid at its Iowa plant in May. 
 Mr. Howard, the company's lawyer, said it should not be possible to join a union ''if you are not legally allowed to work, if your working for this employer results from the perpetration of a fraud upon this employer and results from a crime against the country.''
 The National Labor Relations Board in Washington and the United States Court of Appeals in Washington rejected Agriprocessors' argument that illegal immigrants should not have the right to join unions. In a decision last January, the appeals court, echoing the 1984 Supreme Court decision, wrote that allowing illegal immigrants to join a union ''helps to assure that the wages and employment conditions of lawful residents are not adversely affected by the competition of illegal alien employees.''
 Nathan Lewin, the lead lawyer in Agriprocessors' appeal to the Supreme Court, said the issue should be reconsidered because there are so many more illegal immigrant workers now than in 1984 and because a federal law passed two years after that ruling made it a crime for companies to hire illegal immigrants.
 ''The attitude of federal and local laws towards illegal immigrant workers has undergone a sea change,'' the company's appeal says. ''Federal policy regarding the employment of undocumented aliens is far more prohibitive today.''
 Alvin Blyer, regional director of the labor board's office in Brooklyn, said he was not surprised by the company's appeals. 
 ''Many times employers are anxious to put off the day that they have to deal with a labor union and bargain collectively,'' Mr. Blyer said. ''Even in cases where their legal position is unlikely to succeed, they find it economically worthwhile to delay that day.'' 
 Last Thursday, a butcher who had just finished the midnight-to-9 a.m. shift at the Agriprocessors distribution center said that the company had improved wages and conditions somewhat since the unionization vote three years ago. The worker said he was paid $8.50 an hour, got one week vacation a year and received time-and-a-half pay for overtime.
 ''We don't get health insurance,'' said the worker, who insisted on anonymity for fear of retaliation. And in a candid moment, he acknowledged that he was an illegal immigrant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Rafael Castillo, Elizabeth Alvarez and David Young, union organizers from Local 342. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); OVERTIME (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); STRIKES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MEATS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); POULTRY (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LAWYERS (72%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



10 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: A New Battle Is Beginning In Branding For the Web

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
To marketers large and small, the Web is a wide open frontier, an unlimited billboard with boundless branding opportunities. 
 For the empirical proof, look at the filings with the government for new trademarks that, put simply, are brand names. 
 Applications surged in the dot-com years, peaking in 2000 and then falling sharply for two years, before rising to a record last year of more than 394,000.
 Recently, a new front has opened in the Internet branding wars. 
 It lies beyond putting trademarks on new businesses, Web site addresses and online logos. Now, companies want to slap a brand on still vaguely defined products and services in the uncharted ephemera of cyberspace -- the computing cloud, as it has come to be known. 
 Cloud computing usually refers to Internet services or software that the user accesses through a Web browser on a personal computer, cellphone or other device. The digital service is delivered remotely, from somewhere off in the computing cloud, in the fashion of Google's Internet search service.
 Dell has tried to trademark the term cloud computing itself. But in August, the United States Patent and Trademark Office sent a strong signal that cloud computing cannot be trademarked. 
 It issued an initial refusal to Dell, which filed its application 18 months ago, when the term was less widely used in industry conversations and marketing. 
 Dell had passed early steps toward approval, but the office turned it down, after protests from industry experts that cloud computing had become a broadly descriptive term, and not one linked to a single company. Dell can appeal, but that seems unlikely.
 In recent years, patents -- not trademarks -- have been the main focus of intellectual property experts and the courts, especially around the issue of whether patents on software and business methods have become counterproductive, inhibiting innovation.
 But some legal experts say trademark issues may take on a higher profile, fueled by the escalating value of brands in general and trademark holders increasingly trying to assert their rights, especially on the Internet.
 ''Trademark is the sleeping giant of intellectual property,'' said Paul Goldstein, a professor at the Stanford law school.
 Microsoft, for example, is developing a technology that is intended to synchronize the data on all of a person's computing devices, even synchronizing it with family members and work colleagues as well, automatically reaching across the cloud. 
 When Microsoft announced the concept this year, it said the technology would be called Live Mesh. Just what it is and how it may work remains unclear, but Microsoft filed for a trademark on Live Mesh in June, an application that awaits judgment from the Patent and Trademark Office. 
 Mesh and mesh networking are widely used terms for technology that connects devices.
 ''This is the challenge for our examiners,'' said Lynne G. Beresford, commissioner for trademarks in the Patent and Trademark Office. ''With emerging marks in a field that is changing quickly, you have to make a determination about what the common understanding is.''
 That challenge, legal experts say, is one of several for trademark policy and practice in the Internet age. Instant communication, aggressive business tactics and an unsettled legal environment, they say, mean that trademark disputes on the Internet will increase in number and intensity. 
 The first round of trademark conflict on the Internet, focused on cybersquatting, has subsided. Cybersquatters were early profiteers who bought up the Web addresses, or domain names, of well-known trademarked brands, and then tried to charge the companies huge amounts of money to buy them. 
 In 1999, Congress passed a bill against cybersquatting that allowed companies to sue anyone who, with ''a bad faith intent to profit,'' buys the domain name of a well-known brand. The same year, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a nonprofit oversight agency, established a system for resolving domain name disputes.
 The new areas of conflict, according to legal experts, include trademark owners trying to assert their rights to stifle online criticism of their products, and to stop trademarked brands from being purchased as keywords in Internet search advertising.
 Early court rulings in keyword cases point to the uncertain legal setting and the international differences in trademark law. In the United States, lawyers say, the initial rulings have tended to allow companies to buy the trademarked brand names of rivals as keywords in search. Ford, for example, can bid on and buy ''Toyota,'' so that a person typing Toyota as a search term would see a link to Ford's Web site in the paid-for links on the right hand side of Google's Web page.
 In the United States, that practice has not been interpreted as causing any fundamental consumer confusion. Google also argues that because any bidder can make an offer for any word -- Google supplies no list -- it is not a user of trademarks. ''We are not using keywords, we are not selling keywords, we are selling ad space,'' said Terri Chen, Google's senior trademark counsel.
 But in a French court ruling in 2005, Google was enjoined from allowing others to buy as a keyword the trademark brand of a French luxury goods maker, Louis Vuitton. For countries other than the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, Google has a trademark complaint system, so holders can generally prevent their brands from being purchased as keywords by others.
 The speed of Internet communication and heightened competition to claim and establish brands have drastically changed trademark tactics over the years. Compare the positioning and pre-emptive moves around cloud computing with the gradual pace of building one of the most valued brands in the world, Microsoft's Windows. 
 The use of personal computer windows and graphical user windowing systems were around long before Microsoft announced its plans for a Windows operating system in 1983. The first version was introduced in 1985, and Microsoft did not file for a trademark until 1990. Its application was initially rejected as ''merely descriptive.''
 But, as so often, Microsoft persevered. It kept investing in advertising, branding and product development. It presented the Patent and Trademark Office with surveys showing people had come to associate the term Windows with Microsoft, and in 1995 the trademark examiners finally agreed.
 With its cloud computing project Live Mesh, Microsoft is taking a far faster, more focused approach. It is employing Live, which it uses in other Internet offerings, like Windows Live and Xbox Live, as half of a two-word trademark -- or composite mark, in legal terms. ''Mesh networking is the generic category, but Live Mesh is Microsoft's implementation and acts as a source identifier,'' said Russell Pangborn, Microsoft's director for trademarks. 
 One thing that has been undeniably transformed by computing and the Internet is the trademark office itself. Ms. Beresford, a professed ''trademark nerd,'' recalled that when she joined the office in 1979, searches for the same or ''confusingly similar'' trademarks began in the ''search room.'' The applications and registration documents were kept in wooden cabinets, filed alphabetically.
 Trademarked images were kept in separate drawers and grouped into visual categories, she recalled, like ''grotesque humans'' (the Pillsbury doughboy) and ''human body parts'' (the Yellow Pages' walking fingers).
 Examining attorneys, Ms. Beresford noted, were issued rubber covers for their index fingers for going through files faster and with fewer paper cuts. The technology tools have been upgraded considerably since then. The work is now done mainly on computers, searching the Web and specialized trademark databases. Eighty-five percent of the office's 390 examining attorneys work primarily from home.
 The search room, Ms. Beresford observed, has ''gone the way of the buggy whip.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lynne G. Beresford, of the Patent and Trademark Office, says it is difficult to trademark technology used to connect devices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARK LAW (93%); BRANDING (91%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TRADEMARKS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); PATENTS (89%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); LAWYERS (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); SEARCH ENGINES (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (82%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



11 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times Hitting Students And Schools in Double Blow

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
With mortgage foreclosures throwing hundreds of families out of their homes here each month, dismayed school officials say they are feeling the upheaval: record numbers of students turning up for classes this fall are homeless or poor enough to qualify for free meals.
 ''We're seeing a lot more children in poverty,'' said Lauren Roberts, spokeswoman for the Jefferson County school system, a 98,000-student district that includes Louisville and its suburbs.
 At the same time, the district is struggling with its own financial problems. Responding to a cut of $43 million by the state in education spending and to higher energy and other costs, school officials in Jefferson County have raised lunch prices, eliminated 17 buses by reorganizing routes, ordered drivers to turn off vehicles rather than letting them idle and increased property taxes. 
 The Jefferson County system is typical this school year. 
 As 50 million children return to classes across the nation, crippling increases in the price of fuel and food, coupled with the economic downturn, have left schools from California to Florida to Maine cutting costs. Some are trimming bus service, others are restricting travel, and a few are shortening the school week. And as many districts are forced to cut back, the number of poor and homeless students is rising.
 ''The big national picture is that food and fuel costs are going up and school revenues are not,'' said Anne L. Bryant, executive director of the National School Boards Association. ''We're in a recession, and it's having a dramatic impact on schools.''
 Louisville's pain is minor compared with the woes of some cities. Detroit has laid off at least 700 teachers, Los Angeles 500 administrators and Miami-Dade County hundreds of school psychologists, maintenance workers and custodians. 
 Schools in many states have cut bus stops to save diesel. Districts in California and Ohio have gone further and eliminated bus service either completely or for high schools, leaving thousands of students to find their own way to school.
 In Maine, officials worried about the cost of heating their classrooms this winter have restricted travel for field trips to save money. Districts in Louisiana, Minnesota and elsewhere have taken a more radical measure and adopted four-day school weeks. Hundreds of districts, responding to higher food prices, are charging more for cafeteria meals.
 In interviews, educators in many states said they were seeing more needy families than at any time in memory. Two charities in suburban Detroit announced in August that they would hand out student backpacks, attracting hundreds of families. 
 ''They went through all 300 backpacks in three hours, boom, and that was that,'' said Kathleen M. Kropf, an official in the Macomb Intermediate School District. ''We're seeing a lot of desperate people.'' 
 There were no giveaways for Jacci Murray, 28, a single mother in West Palm Beach, Fla., who said she lost her job six months ago. Ms. Murray bought pencils and crayons for her son, Cameron, who is in the second grade, from a discount bin at Office Depot. Saying she felt ''cheap and broke,'' she pored fretfully over her school supplies list, afraid to waste gas by making more than one shopping trip.
 ''It's been tough this year,'' Ms. Murray said. ''I'm depressed about school.'' 
 And so are many educators.
 West Virginia officials issued a memorandum recently to local districts titled ''Tips to Deal With the Skyrocketing Cost of Fuel.'' Last week, David Pauley, the transportation supervisor for the Kanawha County school system, based in Charleston, met with drivers of the district's 196 buses to outline those policies. Mr. Pauley told them to stay 5 miles per hour below the limit, to check the tire pressure every day and to avoid jackrabbit starts.
 The Caldwell Parish School District, in northern Louisiana, took a more sweeping approach to saving fuel by eliminating Monday classes. The district joined about 100 systems nationwide, most of them rural, that in recent years have adopted a four-day schedule.
 The district's superintendent, John Sartin, said the move should save $145,000 in a $15 million budget. The decision, made in June, came after crude oil prices had risen for 29 consecutive days, Mr. Sartin said.
 ''People here worry that they won't have enough money to last through the month,'' he said. 
 Similar concerns in the Southern Aroostook Community School District in Maine have delayed adoption of the budget. 
 ''We've tried to pass it twice, and we're trying a third,'' said Terry Comeau, the superintendent, who has restricted field trips and taken a bus off the road. 
 ''People are saying, 'I don't want my taxes to go higher; I need the money to pay my bills,' '' said Mr. Comeau, adding that one worry is that heating costs will soar this winter.
 The problems in many districts can be traced to battered state budgets. According to a July report by the National Conference of State Legislatures, 31 states had budget gaps totaling $40 billion, and many had cut school financing. 
 California still has a $15.2 billion budget gap, although many districts there have made cuts, including Los Angeles Unified, which sliced $400 million from its $6 billion budget in June partly by laying off 500 administrators and secretaries, though no teachers.
 Many districts are serving increasing numbers of needy students. In Mobile, Ala., the number of homeless students tripled to about 2,500 at the end of the last school year from 850 in the 2006-7 term.
 ''And our numbers are going to be a whole lot higher this year,'' said Larissa Dickinson, a school social worker there. ''We've had phone call after phone call from families evicted over the summer.''
 Officials in districts in a half-dozen states reported similar surges.
 In Louisville, 7,600 homeless students were enrolled when the term ended in June, up from 7,300 the year before. But Anne Malone, who coordinates efforts to help homeless students, said the figure would be ''way up over that this year.'' Ms. Malone cited foreclosure statistics from the Metropolitan Housing Coalition in Louisville that about 10 families were evicted every day here.
 The number of students whose family's income qualifies them for subsidized meals is up, too. 
 Under the National School Lunch Program, children in a family of four whose parents earn no more than $39,220 a year qualify for a subsidized 30-cent breakfast and 40-cent lunch. If the parents earn no more than $27,560, the children qualify for free meals.
 Last year, about 58,000 Jefferson County students were eligible for free or reduced-price meals. This year, the number is likely to reach 62,000, said Mary R. Owens, who coordinates the program here. In interviews, officials in California, the District of Columbia, Florida and Wisconsin also projected increases in the number of students who would qualify for free or reduced-price meals.
 Nationally, 14.9 million students qualified for free lunches last year, according to data from the Agriculture Department; the Bush administration's budget estimates that an additional 283,000 students will be eligible this year. 
 A department spokeswoman, Jean Daniel, said that subsidized meals were an entitlement and that no students would be turned away if participation exceeded estimates.
 The office here where parents fill out forms to qualify for subsidized meals has seen a stream of anxious parents this year, often in tears, pleading for the free meals for their children because they do not have 70 cents a day to pay for the reduced-price meals, Ms. Owens said.
 ''We've had a lot of daddies coming in to say their check doesn't cover like it used to,'' she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the financial problems that many schools are having at the same time that some of their students' families are struggling economically omitted the names of three contributing reporters. Tom Collins reported from Florida, Joel Elliott from Maine and Sean D. Hamill from Pennsylvania.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marjorie Allgood in Louisville, Ky., where a record number of students qualify for free meals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FAMILY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (88%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); FOOD PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCHOOL BOARDS ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



12 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: John McCain's Challenge

 BODY:
Later this week the Republican National Convention will formally send John McCain to go forth and do battle for the White House with Barack Obama. One cannot envy Mr. McCain, burdened as he is with the toxic legacies of the Bush administration -- including a fragile economy, a battered middle class, an increasingly unequal society and a grinding, unnecessary war that has exacted a huge toll in lives, money, civil liberties and America's reputation abroad. 
 Mr. McCain's task is to persuade the American people that electing him will not merely mean more of President Bush's ideology and incompetence. This is a huge challenge, and his performance at this convention could give us some sense of whether he can rise to it. 
 Mr. McCain's week is complicated by Hurricane Gustav, which prompted President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney to cancel plans to appear in St. Paul on Monday. That will relieve Mr. McCain of having to pay homage to the very man whose shadow he is desperately trying to escape -- and the president did the right thing in response to a looming disaster, this time.
 But Gustav's arrival will remind Americans of one of the most shameful chapters of the Bush presidency -- its unforgivably uncaring response to Hurricane Katrina, which came to symbolize the incompetence, cronyism and ideological blindness of the Bush administration. These many years later, Mr. Bush has made no effort to keep the promises he made about addressing the deep-rooted poverty and racism laid bare by Katrina.
 For Mr. McCain, presuming his convention proceeds as planned, it will do no good to simply throw ideological red meat to the delegates. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll, they sit well to the right of the country and even Republicans as a whole. These delegates have nowhere else to go.
 He could do himself good if he makes a serious effort to rekindle the affection of Republican moderates and independents who have admired his personal courage, competitiveness and occasional willingness to buck party orthodoxy and take legislative risks.
 The problem, of course, is that beyond a few selected issues, Mr. McCain shares Mr. Bush's values and opinions. He not only champions the war in Iraq as a strategic necessity, but also lags even the administration in his willingness to set a timetable for withdrawal. Having once opposed Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the wealthy, he now endorses them. His drill-here, drill-now energy policies seem cut from Dick Cheney's cloth.
 His campaign tactics, too, have been replete with nasty little touches since he turned his operation over to Karl Rove's acolytes, including sophomoric ads about Mr. Obama's celebrity, waving the flag of fear by saying Mr. Obama wants to ''lose'' in Iraq and playing the race card by baselessly accusing Mr. Obama of playing it. 
 Nobody can argue that politics is a gentlemanly game or that Republicans, in particular, have not profited from bare-knuckle tactics. Still, one yearns for the John McCain who used to pride himself on being above this sort of thing, and who was devastated by Mr. Bush's sleazy tactics in the 2000 primaries. It is hard to imagine the pre-2008 McCain accusing an opponent of unpatriotic behavior the way he has allowed Mr. Obama's principled opposition to the war to be portrayed.
 There are other aspects of the old McCain that many voters (and this page) would like to see more of, especially the senator who regularly surprised people with innovative legislation on issues not normally associated with his party or its allies.
 This pre-2008 John McCain dismayed industrial polluters by proposing to put a price on emissions of global-warming gases like carbon dioxide; irritated his hard-line Senate colleagues by offering (with Edward Kennedy) a bipartisan immigration bill; and angered special interests everywhere by fighting to reform campaign finance and the pork-ridden Army Corps of Engineers. 
 Simply reviving that old John McCain won't be enough. He has to offer a detailed explanation of what he means by ''victory'' in Iraq, and why continuing the Bush tax cuts would not further impoverish the country. But reawakening a bit of the old maverick would do more to win the respect of the American middle than gimmicky proposals for a gas-tax holiday or wild charges about Mr. Obama's patriotism or slavish fealty to the darker aspects of the Bush presidency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%); HURRICANES (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); RACE & RACISM (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



13 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Rallies In Support Of McCain, Poll Shows

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and MEGAN THEE; Jackie Calmes reported from St. Paul, and Megan Thee from New York. Dalia Sussman, Marjorie Connelly and Marina Stefan contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain this week will officially claim the presidential nomination from a convention here that is united behind him, and confident of keeping the White House.
 Just four years ago, at the Republican convention in New York, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, was far less popular than Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, of New York, a poll of party delegates showed. But after besting Mr. Giuliani and other rivals in the primary season this year, Mr. McCain enters this year's convention with the enthusiastic support of nearly 9 in 10 delegates, according to a poll of Republican delegates by The New York Times and CBS News. Just 8 percent have reservations about him, the poll shows.
 The delegates' unanimity comes in spite of their description of themselves as more conservative than Mr. McCain, whose maverick image has long made him controversial in his party. 
 The delegates' confidence -- fewer than 2 in 10 fear Mr. McCain may lose -- belies the election-year climate for the party and its other candidates. Many Republicans long ago concluded that in the presidential contest, only a more moderate and reputedly independent figure like Mr. McCain could win in November, and that sense was crucial to his winning the nomination race.
 National polls since then have shown a tight race between Mr. McCain and the Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, despite the unpopularity of the Republican Party and its leader, President Bush. Delegates in the Times/CBS News poll named Mr. McCain's experience as his greatest asset, and his age -- 72 as of last week -- as his greatest weakness.
 The views of the Republican delegates on the issues, especially the economy, and on Mr. Bush are sharply at odds with voters generally. In mid-August, only 20 percent of voters said the economy was in good shape, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll of the nation. The Republican delegates see the economy very differently. While they, too, say it is the country's most pressing problem, they say it is largely in good shape. 
 Ninety percent of the Democratic delegates said the nation was in a recession, while 72 percent of the Republican delegates say it is not. 
 ''If we were in a recession, people would not be eating out -- they would be in the grocery store and cooking at home,'' said Phyllis Gorman, 59, a business owner and delegate from Oklahoma, in an interview after the delegate poll was taken. ''When I drive by McDonald's, there are so many people in line there. There are still a lot of cars on the road. If we were still in a recession like we were in the '70s, people wouldn't be doing anything.''
 Republican delegates also strongly support the president, whose job-approval ratings among voters generally have for many months been among the lowest registered for a modern president. 
 Barbara Lawrence, a Kansas delegate, said in an interview that, despite the bad polls, Mr. Bush ''remained convinced what he was doing was right. And a man who doesn't waiver when adversity comes is certainly a leader.'' 
 Delegates say Mr. Bush has turned out to be the president they expected, yet nearly half say his presidency has weakened the party. They split over whether he should campaign for Mr. McCain and other Republicans.
 The poll, of 854 of the 2,380 Republican delegates was conducted July 23 to Aug. 26 over the phone or by the Internet. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, so differences of less than that amount are statistically insignificant. The nationwide poll of voters that is cited for comparison was done Aug. 15-20 with 1,014 voters, and has the same margin of sampling error. 
 The sharp contrast between the Republican and Democratic delegates' stands on the issues offers something of a refutation of the popular lament among some Americans that there is no difference between the two major parties.
 For example, just 7 percent of the Republican delegates would choose expanded health care coverage over lower taxes, compared with 94 percent of Democratic delegates who would. The two parties' views on the war in Iraq, abortion rights and same-sex marriage are similarly at odds.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Delegates and the Electorate
How Their Views Compare
 (Based on interviews conducted with 854 Republican delegates from July 23-Aug. 26, 970 Democratic delegates from July 16-Aug. 17, and nationwide telephone interviews with 1,014 registered voters conducted from Aug. 15-20. Those with no opinion are not shown.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



14 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: A Risk Neither Candidate Seemed Willing to Take

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Up against the popularity of Senator Barack Obama and the unpopularity of President Bush, Senator John McCain faced pressure to roll the dice with his choice of a running mate. The political world should not have been so surprised, then, that he tapped Sarah Palin, the little-known governor of Alaska.
 Yet more than just Mr. McCain's need to gamble, Ms. Palin's selection showed which kinds of risks 21st century political strategists deem acceptable, and which they do not. 
 In particular, it showed that the divide on abortion is so deep that even a candidate trying to reinforce his maverick image dare not cross it.
 And so Roe v. Wade, the United States Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion, which came nearly two months before Mr. McCain's release from a North Vietnamese prison camp on March 14, 1973, set him on a path into politics, continues to bind Democrats and Republicans and keep the parties in separate spheres.
 Against the Odds
 Tagged with an unpopular war, a weak economy and a widely disparaged incumbent, the Republican Party has not felt more beleaguered than at any time since Watergate. That is the daunting environment that Mr. McCain faces as he claims the party's nomination this week.
 On Election Day 2004, exit polls showed there were as many voters claiming allegiance to the Republican Party as there were self-identified Democrats. Nearly four years later, surveys show Democrats with an edge of nearly 10 percentage points in party self-identification.
 To win under those circumstances, McCain strategists calculate that he must draw roughly 55 percent of independents and 15 percent of Democrats, besting the 48 percent and 11 percent that Mr. Bush drew four years ago. If Mr. Obama's mobilization drive succeeds in enlarging the Democratic electorate, Mr. McCain's hill would grow even steeper.
 One high-risk response for Mr. McCain would have been to select Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, above, as his running mate. As a former congressman, governor and Homeland Security secretary, Mr. Ridge would have met anyone's definition of readiness to step in as president. He could have improved Mr. McCain's odds of snatching Pennsylvania's 21 electoral votes, disrupting Mr. Obama's electoral math.
 Because he favors abortion rights, Mr. Ridge also could have enhanced the party's appeal to affluent suburbanites with moderate social views. But for the same reason, choosing him would have risked eroding the support of the religious right, as well as the ticket's appeal to culturally conservative blue-collar swing voters. 
 Ms. Palin presented a different set of calculations. As a young, charismatic politician with a reformer's image, she could add spark and the stamp of history to the campaign of Mr. McCain, 72, who trails Mr. Obama by more than 10 percentage points among women. As a social conservative who is staunchly anti-abortion, she could energize the party's base.
 But Ms. Palin brought one huge risk: that voters would judge her two years in statewide elected office inadequate to meet the presidential readiness test that every nominee invokes as a paramount consideration. And that could undercut Mr. McCain's argument that Mr. Obama is not ''ready to lead.''
 Both choices offered the opportunity to reinforce Mr. McCain's image as a free-wheeling maverick. But in the calculus of contemporary Republican politics, the dangers associated with Mr. Ridge appeared greater.
 A History Lesson
 Mr. Obama faced a similar cost-benefit calculation in his running mate deliberations. He has campaigned as a post-partisan leader eager to bridge the nation's deepest differences, and to underscore that credential some Democrats urged him to choose Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, below.
 Mr. Hagel's sharp criticism of the Iraq war lent plausibility to the idea. But Mr. Hagel's solid anti-abortion voting record drew strong opposition from the party's liberal base; he didn't make Mr. Obama's short list.
 The values divide on the issue has proved inviolable since 1980. Seven years after Roe v. Wade, the Republican Party platform backed an anti-abortion constitutional amendment, and the elder George Bush, placed on the ticket by Ronald Reagan, reversed his previous support for abortion rights. 
 Since then, Republicans have not nominated a candidate who favors abortion rights; Democrats have not nominated one who opposes them. 
 The 2004 exit polls show why: Three-fourths of those who said abortion should be legal voted for John Kerry, while three-fourths of those who said abortion should be outlawed voted for President Bush. Neither 2008 candidate was willing to challenge that pattern.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters on each side of the abortion debate met at the Democratic convention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ABORTION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); APPEALS (69%); PRISONS (68%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008



15 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE CONVENTION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Response to Storm Shows Changes in McCain Campaign

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
ST. PAUL By every account, there was not much debate in John McCain's inner circle about what to do as Hurricane Gustav bore down on the Gulf Coast, just as delegates were coming into town for the convention. After the briefest of consultations, they decided to cancel major convention events Monday, realizing the political cost of proceeding with the pageantry of a convention as a potentially lethal storm landed on shore.
 As one of his advisers said, there really wasn't much of a choice. 
 Still, the way Mr. McCain responded to the hurricane from the moment he surprised convention organizers here by raising the possibility that he might suspend the convention to the decision to head to Mississippi -- is perhaps the strongest evidence to date of how much his organization has sharpened over the summer. Hurricane Gustav is, in many ways, a bad break for Republicans. But it has provided some opportunities to Mr. McCain that his campaign has aggressively seized, and managed to do so, at least so far, without appearing to be acting politically. 
 Indeed, while Mr. McCain's advisers describe this as something of a no-brainer, it seems more than conceivable that had this happened two months ago -- when Republicans across the country were in despair over Mr. McCain's campaign Mr. McCain would have responded far more passively, soldiering through the convention, cutting back on some of the festivities and offering words of tribute to the victims. (Indeed, some convention planners were recommending something like that). That was a campaign that did not take risks, and Mr. McCain at the time was a candidate who seemed resistant to anything that might look like political showmanship.
 But the campaign has changed, and so have the political circumstances. Mr. McCain and Senator Barack Obama are in a tight race. Even Republicans say that Mr. Obama staged a strikingly successful convention last week. The election now is barely two months away; whatever risks are attendant in this week, Mr. McCain simply could not afford to sit back and let these four days proceeds as if business was usual.
 There are some immutable ways in which Gustav is an unwelcome development for Republicans. Conventions provide four straight days of intense news coverage, and Mr. McCain's advisers had planned to use almost every moment making the case against Mr. Obama. That platform has, at the very least, been decidedly reduced, illustrated by the migration of big-name television news correspondents from St. Paul to New Orleans. 
 Gustav inevitably meant a re-examination of the event which arguably marked the beginning of the huge political decline that has afflicted Mr. Bush and the Republican Party: Hurricane Katrina. Mr. McCain eventually came to criticize Mr. Bush for the administration's tepid response to the storm, and the federal government's continuing problems to help rebuild the city. But the last thing Mr. McCain's advisers wanted this week was a reciting of how Mr. Bush served Mr. McCain birthday cake on the day Katrina begin whipping New Orleans three years ago.
 What is more, conventions are directed not only at the television-watching audience. They also provide an opportunity with speeches and parties and all kinds of hoopla -- way of whipping up the morale of delegates. Even after Mr. McCain's selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his vice president, which was well received by many conservatives, this is a party that still needs a boost.
 But there's a positive side to the equation -- and Mr. McCain and his advisers have worked aggressively to make the most of it. The easiest way to appreciate that is to take a stroll on the convention floor here, where worker crews are still setting up lights, and gaze around the arena, which is plastered with two words mentioned over and over: ''Country First.'' 
 Those words are the central theme of the convention, and Mr. McCain and his advisers did not waste a minute in suggesting that his decision to scale back the festivities was evidence of the fact that Mr. McCain, given the choice between doing what is best for him and doing what is best for his country, did what was best for the country. (Even before the storm was on the radar screen, Mr. McCain's advisers were planning to set that up as one of the big McCain-Obama contrasts.) 
 Even as convention organizers spent he weekend debating what to do as the storm's approached, Mr. McCain went on television to announce that he was thinking of suspending the convention. He then flew to Mississippi for a tour of storm preparations and a news conference. And his aides suggested that he might dispense with coming here at all remember Country First? and address the gathering through a video link-up. 
 In short, he managed to control the day and in the process, pushed the memory of Mr. Obama's convention just a little more into the distance.
 Coming in here, Mr. McCain was understandably concerned that his acceptance speech in the arena here on Thursday would be compared against the one Mr. Obama delivered last week in Denver. Whatever Mr. McCain's strengths as a candidate, delivering compelling speeches to big audiences is not one of them. The storm might have done Mr. McCain a favor: Not only does it take a little pressure off of him, it gives him a chance to talk about something that has always been a weak suit: Domestic issues. And it provides him an opportunity to accomplish what is one his toughest tasks here: To distance himself from President Bush at a convention where Mr. Bush continues to be popular.
 Finally, as has been frequently remarked, the storm accomplished something that Mr. McCain's advisers could not: Disinvite President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney from speaking, at least on Monday night. Mr. McCain's advisers had done what they would to lesson the impact of those speeches they were slated to speak on Labor Day night, Mr. Cheney was to have spoken well before prime time, and Mr. McCain made sure he was nowhere near St. Paul when Mr. Bush took the stage but they had long been resigned to the fact that they were handing the Democrats a gift. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HURRICANES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



16 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Unburdened by Gas Costs, Bike Couriers See a Chance

BYLINE: By APRIL DEMBOSKY

 BODY:
New York City's bike messengers remain a fixture on the streets, having weathered the advent of the fax machine and, of course, e-mail. Now, with the cost of gas pummeling courier companies that rely on motorized vehicles, a few enterprising cyclists are using the opportunity to generate more business.
 A small but growing number of pedal-powered messengers are outfitting their bicycles and, in some cases, tricycles, with boxes and flatbeds on which they can load hundreds of pounds of cargo. 
 ''Eighty percent of the jobs done in a van I can do,'' said Hodari Depalm, the owner of Checker Courier, a cargo messenger company in Manhattan that says it can move up to 200 pounds of documents by bike. Mr. Depalm said his two-man messenger business had increased by 20 percent within the last year. 
 Gregg Zukowski has had similar success. A couple of years ago, Mr. Zukowski, the owner of Revolution Rickshaws, a fleet of pedicabs in Manhattan, replaced the passenger seats on a few of his tricycles with flatbeds and lockable cargo boxes capable of carrying up to 550 pounds of goods. He started using the tricycles to make deliveries for bakeries and catering companies and was even hired last month to help a man move into a one-bedroom apartment. 
 ''We've joked about doing funerals,'' Mr. Zukowski said. Mr. Zukowski's business is catching on swiftly enough that he hopes to have as many as 30 of his tricycles on the road in the next 18 months. 
 The messengers can appeal to customers by charging less than couriers who use cars or vans, and to their consciences by pointing out that they are not hurting the environment.
 Meanwhile, car and van couriers in New York City are struggling with mounting fuel costs. Local companies are passing the cost of gas on to the customer. Some apply a flat fuel surcharge, while others try to negotiate delivery rates with each of their clients. 
 ''Some clients refuse to pay a surcharge,'' said Charles F. Chiusano, vice president of Avant Business Services in New York City and Connecticut. About 15 percent of Avant's business is with state and county agencies, whose rates were established in contracts signed years ago. When fuel prices soared, and agencies refused to alter their terms, the company had to cover the extra costs or risk losing the contracts. 
 ''If the contract goes out to bid, other companies are willing to underbid, hoping things will get better,'' Mr. Chiusano said.
 As much as courier companies feel the pinch, those hit hardest by fuel costs are the drivers. Almost all car and van couriers are independent contractors responsible for their own operating costs: gas, parking, vehicle payments and insurance, health insurance and taxes. When gas prices rise and customers like the city or state refuse to pay a fuel surcharge, the money comes directly from the driver's pocket.
 ''It hurts,'' said Ken Moody, a courier from the Bronx who makes deliveries for Breakaway Courier Systems in his Honda Fit. ''Things have been very tight for me lately.''
 Mr. Moody, 57, said he needed to make $1,000 a week to cover all of his business and living expenses. That often requires working seven days a week. But during the usually slower summer months, he has been earning only $600 to $700 a week.
 ''I'm here from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., but that doesn't mean I'm working the whole time,'' he said as the movie ''Alien 2'' played on a DVD player behind him at dispatch headquarters. 
 Mr. Chiusano said he negotiated better pay rates for his drivers with fuel-efficient vehicles, and he tries to adjust delivery routes to be more fuel efficient.
 But other drivers have quit because of the tough economic circumstances. Lucky Singh, a dispatcher for N.Y. Minute Messenger and Trucking in Manhattan, said three drivers left the company in recent months to drive taxis. Mr. Depalm said a few of his friends working as couriers sold their vans and are now bike messengers. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Depalm's cargo bike company is doing fine, he said. ''The more they keep raising gas prices, the better it is for me.'' 
 Mr. Zukowski has not only been getting more accounts for his delivery services, he's also been making money by renting or selling the cargo tricycles, which are manufactured in England, to local businesses. ''Green Apple Cleaners bought a work trike from us so they could move their dry cleaning,'' he said. ''The manager of Stuyvesant Town is interested in purchasing a trike to move office supplies.'' 
 He said the director Wes Craven rented one to film a scene for his next movie, and Nike borrowed one for a photo shoot. 
 ''We're mobile and agile,'' Mr. Zukowski said, ticking off the tricycle's selling points. ''You never use gas or fuel, parking is never an issue, you don't get tickets and maintenance is low.''
 Still, courier companies that rely on gas-powered vehicles say they expect to remain in business for a long time. ''Until someone figures out how to transport things like they do on 'Star Trek,' I'll be fine,'' said Rick Katz, a partner at LightSpeed Express Delivery Systems in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sign on Hodari Depalm's delivery bike. His business has increased by 20 percent in the last year, he said.
 Hodari Depalm, owner of Checker Courier, a cargo messenger company, says he can haul 200 pounds of documents by bicycle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CYCLING (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); CATERING SERVICES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: COURIER COS INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (93%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



17 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Calls for New Federal Poverty Measure

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional lawmakers and officials of some cities are increasingly calling for an overhaul in the way the federal government measures poverty, arguing that the current definition fails to reflect fully the hardships or resources available to struggling Americans.
 The current measure -- which is used to calculate the nation's annual poverty rate -- has remained virtually unchanged since it was developed in the 1960s. Democrats and Republicans alike say it is hopelessly outdated, and initiatives to provide a more accurate portrait of the nation's most vulnerable people have begun cropping up across the country.
 This month, Representative Jim McDermott, the Democrat from Washington who is the chairman of the House subcommittee on income security, plans to introduce legislation that would require the government to develop a more modern and accurate method to determine who is poor. Representative Jerry Weller, Republican of Illinois, introduced a bill last year. 
 Meanwhile, New York City has developed its own measure and is offering advice and technical assistance to several cities that are considering similar plans, including Chicago and Los Angeles. Also in the coming weeks, New York officials plan to brief others from across the country at a meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors in Los Angeles.
 Congressional aides say they do not expect the legislation to pass this year. Nor do they expect that the White House, which currently determines how poverty is measured, will be swayed by the city initiatives. But pressure is mounting, and city and Congressional officials hope the efforts will bear fruit in the coming year. 
 ''Getting a new poverty measurement will help us identify appropriate policies and measure the success of the policies we have,'' said Sophia Heller, policy director for economic development for Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles. 
 ''It's something we're really, really interested in,'' said Ms. Heller, who is consulting with New York officials as Los Angeles considers developing its own poverty measure. ''You've got to know what the problem is to address it effectively.''
 Her comments came after the Census Bureau announced last week that the nation's poverty rate remained flat, at 12.5 percent, from 2006 to 2007. Median household income rose by 1.3 percent in 2007, to $50,233, the third consecutive annual increase. 
 President Bush praised that report, saying it ''confirms that more of our citizens are doing better in this economy, with continued rising incomes and more Americans pulling themselves out of poverty.''
 But economists said the statistics did not reflect the economic downturn that began late last year and might not reflect the struggles of Americans coping with foreclosures, job losses and high gas prices. 
 The nation's economic woes have intensified interest in addressing poverty and measuring it more accurately. But concerns about the federal measure have been percolating for more than a decade. 
 The current measure was developed in the 1960s by Mollie Orshansky, an economist with the Social Security Administration, who based her figures on a 1955 Department of Agriculture study. That study estimated that poor Americans spent about a third of their after-tax money on food. 
 Ms. Orshansky decided that a family was not poor if its income equaled three times the annual cost of basic groceries. They were poor if they fell below that threshold.
 Today, however, families typically spend about one-seventh of their income on food, census officials say. Families spend much more on housing, transportation and child care, expenses that are not taken into account by the federal poverty measure. (The measure has remained unchanged aside from adjustments for price increases over time.)
 Officials also point out that the current measure only counts cash as income. They say a more accurate model would include government assistance like food stamps, housing subsidies and tax credits. Such aid has been devised to help support the poor, but its impact is not calculated by the current measure. 
 ''We have done a whole number of things to help low-income families, and it doesn't show up in the poverty figures,'' said Rebecca M. Blank, an economist and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''Therefore, we misinterpret the effect of these policies.''
 In the 1990s, Ms. Blank and scholars at the National Academy of Sciences recommended making changes to the official measure. New York City used those recommendations to develop its own method of measuring poverty, which takes into account the cost of housing, child care and clothing and factors in government assistance. 
 Under the new model, the poverty rate in New York City increased to 23 percent as compared with the official level of 19 percent. Fewer people were deemed extremely poor because government aid was taken into consideration.
 On the other hand, the poverty rate increased among the elderly because New York City's new measure includes out-of-pocket medical costs among the expenses.
 ''We've got to really focus on that,'' said Linda I. Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services in New York. ''We can stop working on the assumption that the problem of elderly poverty is fixed.''
 While there is consensus that the measure should be changed, Republicans and Democrats in Congress differ sharply on the details. Still, officials at the United States Conference of Mayors say they are pleased to see lawmakers beginning to work on legislation.
 Eligibility for many federal aid programs is linked to the federal poverty level, and city officials would like to see that adjusted gradually, over time, as a more accurate measure of poverty is put in place.
 Tom Cochran, the executive director of the conference of mayors, said his group would continue to press members of Congress and the presidential candidates to focus on the issue.
 ''We are encouraged by some of the discussions we've had,'' Mr. Cochran said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MAYORS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CENSUS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%)

PERSON: JIM MCDERMOTT (59%); JERRY WELLER (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



18 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Rich Man's Burden

BYLINE: By DALTON CONLEY. 
Dalton Conley, the chairman of New York University's sociology department, is the author of the forthcoming ''Elsewhere, U.S.A.''

 BODY:
FOR many American professionals, the Labor Day holiday yesterday probably wasn't as relaxing as they had hoped. They didn't go into the office, but they were still working. As much as they may truly have wanted to focus on time with their children, their spouses or their friends, they were unable to turn off their BlackBerrys, their laptops and their work-oriented brains. 
 Americans working on holidays is not a new phenomenon: we have long been an industrious folk. A hundred years ago the German sociologist Max Weber described what he called the Protestant ethic. This was a religious imperative to work hard, spend little and find a calling in order to achieve spiritual assurance that one is among the saved. 
 Weber claimed that this ethic could be found in its most highly evolved form in the United States, where it was embodied by aphorisms like Ben Franklin's ''Industry gives comfort and plenty and respect.'' The Protestant ethic is so deeply engrained in our culture you don't need to be Protestant to embody it. You don't even need to be religious.
 But what's different from Weber's era is that it is now the rich who are the most stressed out and the most likely to be working the most. Perhaps for the first time since we've kept track of such things, higher-income folks work more hours than lower-wage earners do. Since 1980, the number of men in the bottom fifth of the income ladder who work long hours (over 49 hours per week) has dropped by half, according to a study by the economists Peter Kuhn and Fernando Lozano. But among the top fifth of earners, long weeks have increased by 80 percent. 
 This is a stunning moment in economic history: At one time we worked hard so that someday we (or our children) wouldn't have to. Today, the more we earn, the more we work, since the opportunity cost of not working is all the greater (and since the higher we go, the more relatively deprived we feel). 
 In other words, when we get a raise, instead of using that hard-won money to buy ''the good life,'' we feel even more pressure to work since the shadow costs of not working are all the greater. 
 One result is that even with the same work hours and household duties, women with higher incomes report feeling more stressed than women with lower incomes, according to a recent study by the economists Daniel Hamermesh and Jungmin Lee. In other words, not only does more money not solve our problems at home, it may even make things worse.
 It would be easy to simply lay the blame for this state of affairs on the laptops and mobile phones that litter the lives of upper-income professionals. But the truth is that technology both creates and reflects economic realities. Instead, less visible forces have given birth to this state of affairs. 
 One of these forces is America's income inequality, which has steadily increased since 1969. We typically think of this process as one in which the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. Surely, that should, if anything, make upper income earners able to relax. 
 But it turns out that the growing disparity is really between the middle and the top. If we divided the American population in half, we would find that those in the lower half have been pretty stable over the last few decades in terms of their incomes relative to one another. However, the top half has been stretching out like taffy. In fact, as we move up the ladder the rungs get spaced farther and farther apart. 
 The result of this high and rising inequality is what I call an ''economic red shift.'' Like the shift in the light spectrum caused by the galaxies rushing away, those Americans who are in the top half of the income distribution experience a sensation that, while they may be pulling away from the bottom half, they are also being left further and further behind by those just above them. 
 And since inequality rises exponentially the higher you climb the economic ladder, the better off you are in absolute terms, the more relatively deprived you may feel. In fact, a poll of New Yorkers found that those who earned more than $200,000 a year were the most likely of any income group to agree that ''seeing other people with money'' makes them feel poor.
 Because these forces drive each other, they trap us in a vicious cycle: Rising inequality causes us to work more to keep up in an economy increasingly dominated by status goods. That further widens income differences. 
 The BlackBerrys and other wireless devices that make up our portable offices facilitate this socio-economic madness, but don't cause it. So, if you are someone who is pretty well off but couldn't stop working yesterday nonetheless, don't blame your iPhone or laptop. Blame a new wrinkle in something much more antiquated: inequality.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ETHICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (87%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); MEN (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



19 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneurs Find Ways to Make Technology Work With Jewish Sabbath

BYLINE: By DAN LEVIN

 BODY:
The rabbis, scientists and engineers of the Zomet Institute are trying to solve the problems that arise when technology and the Torah collide. 
 Working from their research facility in the West Bank settlement of Alon Shvut, they create electronic devices -- from phones to alarm systems to motorized vehicles -- that obey Orthodox Jewish laws about the Sabbath, when even turning an electric current on or off is forbidden. 
 ''We're trying to combine making a modern Jewish state with age-old Jewish law,'' said Dan Marans, executive director of Zomet. That requires both a deep knowledge of Judaism's legal code, or halacha, and a bit of ingenuity. 
 ''Every day, God gives us things to take advantage of,'' Mr. Marans said. ''We just have to know how.'' 
 For decades, research groups like Zomet enjoyed a near-monopoly on the kosher gadget industry. They sold most of their inventions to the Israeli government and military. 
 Now multinationals, Orthodox entrepreneurs and small businesses across the globe are creating rabbinically approved products. 
 The inventions, which help the world's more than 1.5 million Orthodox Jews use the conveniences of modern life, are gaining in popularity as manufacturing in Asia keeps prices low and the Internet makes it easier to shop for niche products. 
 Rabbi Shmuel Veffer, president of Kosher Innovations, based in Toronto, is just one of the entrepreneurs who has benefited. In 2004, Mr. Veffer invented the Kosher Lamp, with a shade that can be twisted to block out the bulb's light but that does not turn it off. 
 Mr. Veffer said he has sold ''tens of thousands'' of the lamps, including a more expensive model and a children's version shaped like a teddy bear. All of the lamps are manufactured in China. 
 Kosher Innovations now sells a dozen products, including a lighting device to check produce for insects and a Sabbath-observant alarm clock, in nearly 400 stores from New York to London to Sydney. Mr. Veffer made sure to receive religious certification from prominent rabbinical authorities in each country where his products are sold.
 ''The Orthodox world is a closely knit community, so if you have something people like, very quickly word spreads like wildfire,'' Mr. Veffer said. 
 But, ''the kosher consumer has an influence in the marketplace that goes way beyond actual numbers,'' said Dr. Avrom Pollak, president of Star-K, based in Baltimore, which certifies as kosher everything from major appliances to food, alcohol and some prescriptions. 
 For example, Dr. Pollak said, Orthodox Jewish households spend a lot more time, attention and money on their kitchens than other American consumers, which is why 14 major home appliance brands have sought kosher certification from Star-K. 
 Star-K also monitors some Chinese factories that make kosher products to insure they are complying with Jewish law. 
 While modern technology was intended to make the chores of daily life less difficult, the proliferation of automatic motors, sensors and lights into more household items has become a growing problem for the strictly observant. 
 For decades, Orthodox Jews trudged through their houses in a pre-Sabbath ritual of turning off home security systems, taping down the button that turns on the light inside the refrigerator when the door is opened, and lighting a flame to leave burning on the stove so food can be heated. 
 In the last 10 years, manufacturers like Whirlpool and Viking have put Sabbath mode settings on most of their ovens, refrigerators, and even wine cellars. General Electric introduced its Sabbath mode in 2000, and said the special setting is featured on more than 150 of its wall ovens, ranges and other cooking appliances.
 These modes either turn off certain lights, fans and alarms, or use a Jewish legal concept known as ''gramma,'' or indirect action, to operate the appliance on holy days. 
 In refrigerators, for example, a built-in delay prevents the compressor from turning on immediately after the door is opened. 
 Over 750,000 modern and ultra Orthodox Jews live in the United States, mostly in the Northeast, California and Illinois. Israel is home to more than 800,000 modern Orthodox and ultra-Orthodox Jews, with 31 percent of adults over 20 identifying as Orthodox, according to the Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics. 
 The community wields considerable political and economic clout, as does Eliyahu Yishai, deputy prime minister and the minister of industry, trade, and labor, who is Orthodox. Last year, the ministry collaborated with religious scholars and the Manufacturers Association of Israel to market Sabbath-friendly products to the global Orthodox community. 
 The association estimates that the annual potential for worldwide sales of such products is $10 million.
 ''To be Orthodox today has to be a bit easier than a couple of years ago,'' said Yair Shiran, Israel's Economic Minister to North America, who noted that over 20 products have been developed for the Orthodox consumer, including a Sabbath air-conditioner, coffee machine and alarm system. 
 ''The technology is available, the idea is to just commercialize it for uses in specific communities,'' Mr. Shiran said. 
 Zomet created the metal detectors used to screen worshippers at the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site, in a manner that uses electricity in a way not prohibited on the Sabbath. It also developed pens that use ink that disappears after a few days, based on a rabbinic interpretation that only forbids permanent writing, and Sabbath phones, which are dialed in an indirect manner with special buttons and a microprocessor. 
 According to Mr. Marans, the Israeli army bought 1,000 of these phones in 2007, so that Orthodox soldiers can take part in military operations on the Sabbath and holidays. Hospitals and medical personnel also use these technologies. ''Obviously they are needed to protect the country, but we want to limit the desecration of Shabbat as much as possible,'' Mr. Marans said. 
 Mechanized vehicles present similar problems. In the past, religious Jews who were disabled were largely cut off from their community, unable to walk to synagogue or hear prayers. 
 But Zomet has invented Sabbath-friendly wheelchairs, sound systems and elevators that stop on each floor, and developed a Shabbat scooter with Michigan-based Amigo Mobility International. 
 Rabbi Herschel Schachter, the head of the rabbinical school at Yeshiva University in New York City and a Jewish legal expert for the Kosher division of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, said that there have been disagreements between Israeli and American rabbis over the permissibility of some Sabbath devices.
 He said he has rejected certain inventions because the interpretations of religious law supporting them were too murky, and the products did not address a great need. 
 Still, he said, ''if you make the burden slightly lighter, it's O.K. The Torah doesn't want to make life impossible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dan Marans, executive director of the Zomet Institute, with water heaters that have been altered to meet the requirements of strict Jewish law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNOUVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rabbi Shmuel Veffer, head of Kosher Innovations, with the Kosher Lamp. It has a shade that can be twisted to block out the bulb's light but that does not turn it off. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM ROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (78%); HOME SECURITY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



20 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Clash With Tribe Spurs Effort to Shut a Casino

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

DATELINE: SAN JACINTO, Calif. 

 BODY:
With 9 reservations and 10 casinos, Riverside County is a major center of Indian gambling in California.
 But a standoff between county sheriff's deputies and leaders of the Soboba Band of Luiseno Indians has led to an unusual effort to close one of the casinos because of safety concerns.
 Three Soboba members were killed in gunfights with deputies on the reservation in May, and the authorities say tribal members have shot at deputies in patrol cars and helicopters with high-powered assault rifles over the past nine months. 
 In July, citing what it called heavy-handed treatment by the Sheriff's Department, the tribe began requiring deputies entering the reservation to check in at a security gate and travel with an escort. Sheriff Stanley Sniff says the restrictions are illegal and has asked the National Indian Gaming Commission to close the Soboba casino and suspend the tribe's gambling license. 
 Separately, a residents group here in San Jacinto, a city that borders the reservation, has written to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger claiming that crime near the casino and restrictions on deputies violated the tribe's state gambling compact.
 The residents also want the governor to reject a proposal by the tribe to add more land to its federal trust, for a second casino and for a hotel and gas station, although there is a dispute about whether the matter falls under state or federal jurisdiction.
 Sheriff Sniff described the Soboba as having ''a culture of violence,'' citing incidents of illegal weapons possession, car theft, drug possession and, most recently, gang activity, among some members.
 ''There is an imminent danger to the thousands of people that flow in and out of that casino,'' he said, ''and to the people who live in communities around the reservation.''
 Violent crime rates on the reservation were three times higher than in surrounding cities last year, according to Sheriff's Department statistics, and 911 calls from the casino have risen steadily since 2006. That year, the tribe canceled a contract with the department to patrol the reservation. 
 Members of the Soboba Tribal Council said sheriff's deputies, who have killed five Soboba in shootouts involving criminal suspects since December, have violated tribal sovereignty and made the restrictions necessary. The tribe's chairman compared the Sheriff's Department to a 19th-century frontier cavalry.
 ''We don't think we're above the law,'' said the chairman, Robert Salgado. ''But we've got rights in Indian country.''
 In a community of under a thousand, the deaths have cut deeply, said Rose Salgado, the Tribal Council secretary and sister of Mr. Salgado. She said the tribe's crime problems were no worse than those in any other community.
 ''It's very emotional,'' she said of the killings. ''There is a lot of sorrow and healing, especially for our young people.''
 The check-in and escort requirement for sheriff's deputies at Soboba is unprecedented in California, said James Fletcher of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in Riverside. The sheriff's request to close the casino is a first since Indian gambling became legal in California in 1999, he said. 
 The National Indian Gaming Commission is looking into the request, said Shawn Pensoneau, a commission spokesman. ''This issue is not resolved,'' Mr. Pensoneau said.
 The tensions between county law enforcement officials and the Soboba reflect broad demographic changes in the eastern stretches of Riverside County, one of the state's fastest growing counties.
 New homes began to fill the eastern deserts of the county in the past three years, pushing up against the Soboba and other reservations, said John Husing, a private economist in Riverside who analyzes Southern California's inland counties. The homes contribute to friction between residents and the tribe.
 Mr. Fletcher, the federal official, said eight years of casino growth had been a salve for economic hardship at Soboba, but the county's population boom has brought new -- and sometimes unwanted -- attention to the historically insular tribe.
 Relations with residents of nearby San Jacinto took a turn for the worse last year when the tribe bought a country club and golf course just beyond the reservation's border. The tribe acquired 535 acres, which it wants to transfer into federal trust. Jennie Hanks, assistant tribal administrator for Soboba, said the transfer would make the property an extension of sovereign land and allow the tribe to build a larger casino.
 But residents have safety concerns. Once transferred, the land would fall under the same access restrictions placed on the Sheriff's Department, said Cheryl Schmit, founder of Stand Up for California!, an organization that advocates for communities affected by tribal gambling.
 Ms. Schmit and residents from San Jacinto wrote to Mr. Schwarzenegger on Aug. 15 asking the state to determine if the tribe had violated its gambling compact by restricting law enforcement access. If the state finds evidence of a breach, she said, it could close Soboba gambling operations and delay the tribe's application to the federal government for land transfer. 
 But compact violations may not affect the federal application, said Matt Campoy, chief of the California bureau of gambling control.
 About 750 residents in three neighborhoods would be encircled by the reservation if the transfer is approved, said Jerry Uecker, a co-founder of Save Our Community!, the residents working with Ms. Schmit.
 Andrea Hoch, the governor's legal affairs secretary, said Mr. Schwarzenegger's office was ''gathering information to determine the impact of this situation on the tribe's gaming compact.''
 One recent afternoon, Mr. Uecker sat in his living room in a mobile home park 200 yards from the reservation. He described hearing the ''rata-tat-tat'' of automatic weapons fired from the reservation many nights. A figurine of an Indian man in braids and a buckskin suit stood on a shelf near Mr. Uecker's kitchen.
 ''We respect their sovereignty,'' he said. ''But we'd be virtually islands without access to law enforcement services if this land becomes reservation.''
 Not far away, Doug Hamilton, a sergeant with the Soboba Tribal Enforcement, drove a white sport-utility vehicle into a rocky canyon surrounded by yellow hills. The ground was wet with runoff from a quick storm the night before. Young tribal members like to ride all-terrain vehicles in the mud after a rain, Mr. Hamilton said.
 ''It's like any other community,'' he said. ''Right now, we're being painted as being something else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A casino in San Jacinto, Calif., run by the Soboba Indians.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Robert Salgado, the Soboba chairman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (92%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); VEHICLE THEFT (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); FIREARMS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); HELICOPTERS (56%); GANGS (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



21 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: A Balancing Act on Emissions

BYLINE: By LIZ GALST

 BODY:
The Apollo Alliance, a coalition working to promote green jobs and clean energy, has been struggling with how to offset the global warming pollution that results from its day-to-day operations, especially from its travel. 
 ''Our carbon footprint is ridiculous,'' its co-director, Kate Gordon, said referring to the amount of greenhouse gases emitted each year by the organization. 
 Air travel is its worst offender, Ms. Gordon said. The quest for renewable energy has its employees on the move for speaking engagements and lobbying. 
 ''Our president, Jerome Ringo, is probably on the road 250 days a year,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''I travel about 25 percent of the time. We do a ton of travel as an organization.'' 
 To help reduce the role it plays in the release of carbon emissions, the Apollo Alliance has tried to develop a two-pronged approach. One, cut back on air travel, seemed obvious. 
 Air miles are responsible for 3 percent to 13 percent of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide, according to various reports. A single round-trip coast-to-coast flight can create about three tons of carbon dioxide emissions, about the same amount as driving a midsize car for six months.
 Another, more controversial, option that the Apollo Alliance considered was carbon offsets.
 On paper at least, offsets pay for reductions in carbon dioxide production. Offset providers, both nonprofit and for-profit, finance renewable energy projects that reduce the need for electricity from fossil fuel, provide upfront costs for energy efficiency programs, or pay to plant trees. 
 But there has been criticism of offsetting, with some likening them to medieval papal indulgences, allowing individuals, companies and organizations to continue their polluting ways by simply paying a fee. 
 As carbon offsets increase in popularity -- sales in the United States rose to $88 million in 2007 from $39 million in 2006, according to the research firm New Carbon Finance -- many travelers have questions about the practice. 
 ''I talk to a lot of people about carbon offsets these days,'' said Rusty Pritchard, a former environmental economist at Emory University who serves as outreach director for the Evangelical Environmental Network, a national Christian organization. ''They have questions that range from the scientific, like, 'How does paying for energy efficiency in Brazil offset the carbon you're emitting on a flight to New York?' to 'Is it fair to claim this as a business expense?' I've even had people at universities ask, 'How do we explain this to our donors?' ''
 Specialists in global warming say the best way for business travelers to reduce their carbon emissions is to limit the time they spend on the road. ''The average American creates about 20 tons of CO2 -- about twice the emissions of the average European and far more than people in the rest of the world,'' said Anja Kollmuss, senior scientist at the nonprofit Stockholm Environment Institute, a science-based policy institute. ''So, if you fly to Europe and back a couple of times, that adds quite a lot to your carbon footprint.''
 Once a traveler has reduced flying time, ''carbon offsets are worth doing, if you do them right,'' said Mark C. Trexler, a carbon reduction strategies consultant and author of a 2006 report, ''A Consumer's Guide to Retail Carbon Offset Providers.'' 
 The challenge is to find quality offsets, because no universally accepted method of certification or verification exists, though some voluntary standards -- like the Voluntary Carbon Standard, the Gold Standard and Green-E Climate certification -- are gaining acceptance. 
 ''You need careful monitoring to make sure these offsets are transparent and verifiable, that you can document that the offset is permanent and additional,'' said Representative Peter F. Welch, Democrat of Vermont and a sponsor of the Carbon Neutrality Act of 2007. The legislation would guarantee that offset providers deliver what they promise, much in the way the Agriculture Department verifies organic farming practices.
 Crucial to finding quality carbon offsets is looking for what in the field is called ''additionality.'' 
 ''You want to invest in a project that would not have happened otherwise,'' Ms. Kollmuss said. Consider a program that helps build wind farms, she says. If a particular wind farm would not have been built without the capital provided by the offset vendor, the project is additional. 
 ''But if it's required by law,'' to, say, help meet a state's renewable energy requirements, ''it's not additional.'' 
 To help sort through the confusion and decide which providers to use, John B. Izzo, an author of business books and a management consultant, used several online references, including a guide to offsetting published by the Nature Conservancy and an offset-provider rating compiled by the Tufts Climate Initiative. 
 He chose a Swiss-based offset provider, Myclimate, because of its high ranking on the Tufts survey. 
 Similarly, Mr. Welch offsets the travel associated with his work by using the Vermont-based offset provider Native Energy. He pays more than $800 out of pocket to offset 71-plus tons of carbon each year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers gathering biomass near Malavalli, India, in a project run by Myclimate, which sells carbon offsets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MYCLIMATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); RELIGION (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



22 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Caught in the Uncertainty of a Storm

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Waves of relief rather than water washed over the oil patch after Hurricane Gustav's punch appeared to be much less powerful than those of Hurricanes Rita and Katrina three years ago. 
 ''I don't know if there was a cheer, but there were plenty of smiles,'' Don Pirolo, a ConocoPhillips refinery manager, said of the employees gathered at the company's emergency operations center here. The crackers, fruit and soft drinks served at the center ''taste a lot better today.'' 
 From initial reports, the storm appeared to leave production platforms and refineries essentially unharmed, meaning that oil and gas supplies would not be disrupted and prices at the pump may continue to ease in the days ahead. 
 At the least, oil experts said the risk of a sharp price spike appeared to have faded, unless flooding or power failures have a lasting impact on refineries and port facilities over the coming days.
 ''We dodged the bullet,'' said Darron Granger, a senior vice president at Cheniere Energy, a Houston-based company that imports liquefied natural gas and explores for oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico. ''This is probably not going to have any impact on any oil or gas supply.''
 News of the weakening storm calmed oil and gas markets, sending prices sharply lower. Crude futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange dropped $4.06 on Monday to $111.40 for a barrel of oil, its lowest level since spring and almost $36 below the July 11 record of $147.27. 
 Natural gas prices fell nearly 6 percent, to $7.48 per million British thermal units. AAA reported that the average national price for unleaded gasoline of $3.69 held steady on Monday despite the storm threat, holiday weekend driving and the giant evacuation in the Gulf Coast.
 ''It's very striking to see that the market made up its mind about the extent of damage before anyone else,'' said Daniel Yergin, an energy historian and chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. Despite the outbreak of hostilities in Georgia and an active hurricane season, he added, ''the focus is on the weak economy, weak demand and the impact of the stronger dollar.''
 Oil and gas company officials warned, however, that it might take as much as a week or more to make a full assessment of damages to rigs, pipeline networks and refineries along the Louisiana and Texas coastlines. 
 Companies will have to wait until the storm passes to begin overhead flights to assess their production platforms. 
 Gustav downed some power lines at refineries, and caused some flooding Monday morning in Port Fourchon, the location of the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port that handles about 10 percent of the country's oil imports. There is no telling yet what kind of damage, if any, occurred in the vast underwater Gulf pipeline system.
 But oil executives said they did not expect major import, production or refinery disruptions. 
 Gustav represented the first major challenge to Gulf oil operations since Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, which crippled more than 100 production platforms, disrupted refinery operations and sent oil and gas prices soaring. 
 Since then the companies have installed additional mooring lines on drilling rigs and production platforms. Many platforms have also been raised to higher levels above the water to protect against storm surges. Refinery structures and power systems have been reinforced to survive stormy weather.
 For days, energy analysts had warned that Gustav was a serious potential threat to the economy since the Gulf region accounts for about 25 percent of domestic oil production, nearly 15 percent of natural gas output and about 40 percent of total refining capacity. 
 Over the last several days nearly all oil and gas production was halted, and over a third of refinery activity was shut down. 
 At least some of the 20 or so refineries whose operations were shut down or reduced in recent days could be back to near normal operation in a few days, and they typically have several days of oil supplies stored for refining.
 But even if there is minimal damage to offshore platforms, it could take a week or more to fully examine facilities, return personnel to their stations and fully ramp up production.
 ''A week is a lot,'' said Chip Johnson, president and chief executive of Carrizo Oil and Gas, who predicted that oil and gas prices ''will go up some.'' But he added, ''It could have been a lot worse.''
 Energy traders were relieved last week when the Bush administration said it would release supplies from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to address any supply disruptions. 
 Spokesmen of major companies expressed cautious optimism on Monday that their operations suffered only modest damage. 
 ''The good news is this storm was not as powerful as Rita or Katrina,'' said Mickey Driver, a Chevron spokesman. ''But we're going to have to do inspections to make sure everything is O.K.'' 
 Bill Tanner, a ConocoPhillips spokesman, said, ''At this point things are looking pretty good. We have minor damage at our Alliance refinery in the form of some downed power lines, but we will not be able to give a full assessment before the storm passes.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A gas station in Boutte, La., on Monday. Although fierce, Hurricane Gustav was not as devastating as feared. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C1)
 On Sunday ahead of Gustav, some gas stations like this one in Gulfport, Miss., were running out of gasoline. (PHOTOGRAPH BYROGELIO V. SOLIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C8) CHART: OIL PRICE: $120 a barrel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (87%); WEATHER (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); HISTORY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); ENERGY RESEARCH (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SOFT DRINKS (56%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); IHS INC (63%); CHENIERE ENERGY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); IHS (NYSE) (63%); LNG (NYSE MKT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



23 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Target to Open Designer-Focused Stores in New York

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Target, continuing its flirtatious relationship with Manhattan shoppers, plans to open four ''pop-up'' stores around the city next week to sell fall merchandise by its 22 designers. 
 Fashions and accessories by three of them -- Sigerson Morrison, Jonathan Saunders and Anya Hindmarch -- will be sold in the city a month before they are available anywhere else in the country.
 The retailer will not open its first full-blown store in the city until next year, but it has been plastering its bull's-eye logo around the city for years -- on a big billboard in Times Square; in a fashion show with models, supported by ropes, walking down the side of a Fifth Avenue skyscraper; and by projecting images of its fashions inside Grand Central Terminal. 
 ''New York is the place you go to get noticed,'' said Kathee Tesija, Target's executive vice president for merchandising.
 Target is calling these temporary stores bodegas to convey an egalitarian and very New York shopping experience, said Ms. Tesija. They will be located in vacant storefronts in Midtown, Union Square, SoHo and the East Village, and will open Sept. 12, which is the end of Fashion Week.
 ''The idea was really generated based on the Target take on Fashion Week,'' she added. ''This would be a way we could bring affordable design to the masses.''
 At the pop-up stores -- which will be open for four days from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. -- merchandise will be priced on average at $25. 
 Target often sells less expensive offerings from brand-name designers. In the spring, Rogan Gregory, whose designs are sold in Barneys New York for $230 to $450, created a line of clothes for Target that sold for $14.99 to $44.99. Several pieces from the collection, though, are now on clearance. A Rogan for Target sleeveless button-front dress is marked down to $8.74, from $34.99, on Target.com.
 As much as Target is promoting its fashion credibility in New York, it is also focusing on its role as a discounter for struggling consumers across the chain. 
 ''We can emphasize 'Expect more' or 'Pay less' depending on the economy,'' said Ms. Tesija, playing on the company's tagline. ''We are putting a little bit more emphasis on 'Pay less.' ''
 In its circulars, Target is advertising fewer items and giving more prominent display to prices. In its stores, many displays draw attention to low-price sundries.
 Target reported that profit for the three months ended Aug. 2 fell 7.6 percent, to $634 million, compared with $686 million, for the same period last year. 
 Sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health, declined 0.4 percent for the quarter.
 ''The merchandise mix of, say, Wal-Mart for example is much more suited to customers now than the merchandise mix of Target,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst with Deutsche Bank. ''Wal-Mart is much more of a supermarket-style discount store, and Target's much more of a department store-style discount store.''
 Analysts say the current economy is not suited to Target's core strengths, but its prospects are nonetheless strong.
 ''What's unique about Target within the American retailing landscape is they still have immense opportunity to grow,'' said Mr. Dreher, adding that the retailer could easily double, even triple, the number of its stores, particularly in areas like New York and New England. 
 In Manhattan, he suggested, Target would be a logical successor to the retail space currently occupied by the aging Kmarts at Pennsylvania Station and Astor Place, near New York University.
 ''You could imagine most of the N.Y.U. dorms being outfitted from that store,'' Mr. Dreher said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a photoillustration, Target depicted the look of its ''bodegas,'' which will open on Sept. 12 with clothes unavailable elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARGET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (52%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



24 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Demand And Price For Lobster Are Falling

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
For many, summer in New England would not be complete without throwing on a bib and cracking open a freshly boiled lobster. 
 This year, however, fewer people are ordering the region's signature dish, driving down lobster prices and making times harder for lobster fishermen already reeling from the high cost of fuel and bait. 
 ''Lobster is a luxury item, and when things are tight, people don't buy lobster,'' said Peter Eaton, a lobsterman from Kennebunkport, Me., who is getting about $3.75 per lobster off the boat, a quarter less than three months ago and about a dollar less than last summer. 
 While price and demand have hit their lowest point in years, lobster fishermen are hauling in larger catches than ever. Restaurants in New England have been running lobster specials all summer, trying to pass on the lower prices and move lobsters from the tank to the table. 
 ''We can be creative with lobsters, given the fact that demand across the country is off on them a bit,'' said Roger Berkowitz, the president and chief executive of Legal Sea Foods, a restaurant chain based in Boston. Its restaurants have been running lobster specials this summer, and a lobster is about $4 cheaper this summer than last. 
 ''It's not necessarily a bad thing,'' Mr. Berkowitz said. ''It's becoming a little more affordable, like one of those more affordable luxuries. If you're going to indulge, you might as well indulge at a discount.'' 
 Even though the price is down, Jose Soliva, 37, an architect from Wellesley, Mass., is trying to save money and was buying his first lobsters of the summer on Friday for himself and his wife.
 ''A few years back we had it more often,'' Mr. Soliva said. ''But since the economy is bad we're now a lot more conservative about when we treat ourselves.''
 Soft-shell lobsters, which are harvested in summer and typically served in restaurants, are the least expensive this year, while hard-shell lobsters, which are usually no smaller than a pound and a half, are slightly more expensive. 
 While diners like lower lobster prices, lobster fishermen do not. The fishermen have spent much of this year modifying how they set and haul in their traps. Some are allowing traps to sit in the water a day or two longer, which helps save gas and bait prices. Lobster fishermen are absorbing fuel costs twice -- for their own boats and for those of the bait fishermen, who have raised prices. 
 ''You have to let your traps set longer,'' Mr. Eaton said. ''If it's a windy, blowy day you don't do a half-day's work anymore. 
 ''In the end it pays off because you're not wasting fuel. It's not costing you two days' fuel to haul one day's work.''
 The high price of fuel has forced some lobster fishermen to stop working, said Bob Bayer, executive director of the Lobster Institute at the University of Maine, and low prices will make things even more difficult. 
 ''This means hard times, and it means some are not going to make it,'' Professor Bayer said. ''The boats have gotten bigger and bigger over the years. They're diesel engines, and with fuel over $5 a gallon, it's going to be tough.''
 The worst may be ahead, Professor Bayer said, as lobster consumption and prices typically drop in September. 
 Bernie Feeney, who traps lobsters out of Boston Harbor, said he knew many lobstermen who had taken second jobs in recent years. Mr. Feeney, who has been a lobsterman since 1978, said he had been doing marine surveying for the last five years to help pay the bills. 
 ''In a year where our fuel costs are almost doubled and bait costs have gone up 50 to 60 percent as a result of fuel,'' Mr. Feeney said, ''it's a squeeze from both ends.''
 Partly as a result, young people are not going into the lobstering business, he said, adding that the average age of a fisherman in Massachusetts is 59.
 ''There aren't many young entrants,'' said Mr. Feeney, a past president of the Massachusetts Lobstermen's Association. ''The startup costs of this business are astronomical compared to what they used to be.'' 
 At James Hook and Company, a retailer in Boston, lobster was selling at $1 or $2 less a pound than usual: a soft-shell lobster was $6.99 a pound, while a one-pound hard-shell lobster was $8.99. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lobster fishermen, heading out into Boston Harbor, were already making fewer trips because of fuel costs. Now they face less consumer demand for their catch, which is seen as a luxury item.
 As consumers buy less lobster this summer, prices are going down at places like James Hook and Company in Boston.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CJ GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



25 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: At Movies, Fewer Eyes, Bigger Haul

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Fewer people went to the movies this summer than last, confirming Hollywood's fears that this year's slate of pictures would not match the crowd pleasers of 2007. 
 But luckily for an industry that cares mostly about the money, higher ticket prices and a Batman sequel delivered near-record revenue to the major studios. 
 For the crucial summer season, a period from the first weekend in May to Labor Day, when studios record about 40 percent of their annual box office revenue, domestic ticket sales totaled an estimated $4.2 billion, according to movie tracking firms.
 Despite attendance falling 4 percent (to 586.6 million moviegoers), according to Media by Numbers, that performance still surpassed last year's $4.18 billion. Factoring in inflation, the summer of 2002 still holds the industry record with $4.63 billion. 
 Studios in 2007 served up an unprecedented number of sequels and comic book-derived movies, both thought to be easy sells. This year's crop had fewer such films, and the big-budget pictures that studios did deliver came with sizable risks.
 They consisted of B-list, or drunken, superheroes (''Iron Man'' and ''Hancock''), a TV show years distant from original episodes (''Sex and the City'') and an animated film with a 45-minute silent stretch (''Wall-E.'') There was also comedy gridlock with Ben Stiller, Mike Myers, Adam Sandler, Will Ferrell, Eddie Murphy, Steve Carell, Seth Rogen and Cameron Diaz all headlining different films.
 Yet nearly all of those movies landed on their feet, providing financial peace of mind for all of the big studios, except 20th Century Fox. 
 ''You're always trying to put together new franchises, and this summer the industry was able to do just that,'' said Brad Grey, the chairman of Paramount Pictures.
 ''Iron Man,'' a Marvel Studios film that was distributed by Paramount, is perhaps the strongest contender to become a megawatt franchise. The picture, starring Robert Downey Jr., has sold $317.5 million in tickets at North American theaters and more than $250 million overseas. The studios have already locked in April 30, 2010, for the sequel.
 Other summer entries that performed well enough to spawn sequels include Universal's ''Wanted,'' about superhero assassins, and the DreamWorks Animation film ''Kung Fu Panda.''
 Reading the box-office tea leaves for clues about consumer tastes or Hollywood currents is akin to pontificating about symbolism in works of fiction: any halfway plausible argument works. Indeed, veteran movie executives caution about reading too much into the success of any one film. 
 ''Sex and the City,'' for instance, surprised Warner Brothers with a strong domestic take of $152.4 million, but does that mean Hollywood will start cranking out more female-oriented films? Probably not. One test comes on Sept. 12, when ''The Women,'' the long-gestating remake of George Cukor's 1939 classic, reaches theaters.
 Even so, clear winners and losers emerged over the summer, with some strategies paying off and some Hollywood truisms receiving fresh corroboration.
 The movie business, for instance, remains highly volatile. The industry had huge flops and huge hits -- sometimes at the same studio. Warner, part of Time Warner, was whipsawed between the crash of ''Speed Racer'' and the surprising success of ''The Dark Knight,'' a follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' in 2005.
 ''Speed Racer,'' a remake of the old television series, cost an estimated $250 million to produce and market but took in just $43.9 million at the domestic box office. Then ''The Dark Knight'' came along and cruised to a $504.7 million tally, enough to make it one of the biggest-selling movies of all time. (Warner also had the No. 1 comedy of the summer in ''Get Smart.'')
 Paramount, part of Viacom, reaped huge profits by playing it safe: Most of its summer entries were financed by other production companies with Paramount acting as the distribution partner. The strategy allowed Paramount to limit its risk while focusing on big-budget bets for next summer, including ''G.I. Joe,'' a reboot of ''Star Trek'' and ''Transformers 2'' (the latter is a co-production of Paramount and DreamWorks).
 The studio did suffer one of the biggest flops of the summer, however. ''The Love Guru,'' starring Mike Myers, sold $32.2 million in tickets -- less than half of its cost. ''I think that Mike is hilarious and deserves the chance to continue making pictures he believes in,'' said Mr. Grey. ''Not every movie is going to hit every time.''
 Universal's summer was robust, with ''The Incredible Hulk'' financed by Marvel overcoming bad buzz to become a legitimate hit, and with the musical ''Mamma Mia!'' printing money, especially overseas. In addition to ''Wanted,'' the studio also squeezed a hit out of ''Hellboy II: The Golden Army,'' notable because Sony had passed on making a sequel.
 ''The industry had a great summer because most studios made really satisfying and compelling movies,'' said Adam Fogelson, Universal's president for marketing and distribution.
 Other movie companies had a harder time.
 Sony hatched hits with ''Hancock,'' a Will Smith entry that sold $226.5 million in tickets at the domestic box office, and three modestly budgeted comedies, including Mr. Sandler's ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan.'' 
 ''Comedies, even R-rated ones, continue to perform very well,'' said Rory Bruer, Sony's president for distribution. ''People want to laugh and escape.'' 
 Still, Sony suffered from comparisons with last summer, when it had juggernauts like ''Spider-Man 3.'' The same was true for the Walt Disney Company, which enjoyed a record summer last year because of the final ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' installment. This time around, Disney had ''The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian,'' a substantial disappointment because its box office total of $141.6 million was less than half that generated by the first movie in the series.
 Fox, part of the News Corporation, struggled outright, having its longest losing streak in nearly a decade. The cost-conscious studio, long praised by analysts for its healthy profit margins, stumbled with ''X-Files: I Want to Believe'' and the disastrous ''Meet Dave,'' an Eddie Murphy vehicle.
 A Fox spokesman said some potential blockbusters in coming months should end the drought. Among Fox's coming films are ''The Day the Earth Stood Still,'' a remake of the science fiction classic, and ''X-Men Origins: Wolverine.''
 One question about next summer involves the potential impact of the industry's recent three-month writers' strike. Warner recently said the strike had affected its summer 2009 pipeline to such a degree that it was shifting the release of ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince'' from November of this year to July.
 But the other five major studios said there would be no slowdown in their release schedule. ''There is very little evidence there will be a thinning out of the marketplace anytime before next fall,'' Mr. Fogelson of Universal said.
 The 2008 summer season ended with a whimper this long weekend, as Hollywood dropped a smattering of weak movies into theaters, and executives turned their attention to the start of the awards season. 
 The Vin Diesel action picture ''Babylon A.D.'' sold an estimated $12 million in tickets from Friday to Monday in North America, landing in second place, behind the holdover ''Tropic Thunder,'' which made $14.3 million ($86.6 million total). ''Traitor,'' a thriller starring Don Cheadle, sold about $11.5 million and came in third.
 ''The Dark Knight'' was fourth. ''The House Bunny,'' a low-budget comedy from Sony, rounded out the top five with $10.2 million ($29.8 million total.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS(C2) CHART: Year of Hits and Misses: Hollywood studios have had some very successful movies this year, but they have also had commercial failures. (Sources: Media by Numbers
 Box Office Mojo)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ANIMATION (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); LITERATURE (73%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (57%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (57%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (58%); BEN STILLER (58%); EDDIE MURPHY (58%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); STEVE CARELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



26 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Fed Official Says Institutions Must Be Allowed to Fail

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Thomas M. Hoenig, said on Monday that for economies to work best, institutions must be allowed to fail.
 Economies must ''find a balance between financial stability and a stable price environment and in doing so must be able to allow individual institutions to fail,'' Mr. Hoenig said in a speech in Buenos Aires. 
 Changes in financial markets combined with the subprime mortgage crisis have ''raised anew questions about the role of central banks in maintaining financial stability,'' he said.
 The subprime mortgage collapse has taken a toll on banks and other financial companies, which have reported $514 billion of writedowns since the start of 2007. The Fed rescued Bear Stearns from bankruptcy in March, facilitating the firm's merger with JPMorgan Chase by lending against $29 billion of Bear securities.
 ''Financial crises will occur despite our best efforts to prevent them,'' Mr. Hoenig said in prepared remarks at an event held by Argentina's central bank. The too-big-to-fail issue, he said, ''will only grow in importance as the consolidation of the financial industry grows in both size and scope in future decades.''
 Earlier Monday, a Federal Reserve governor, Randall Kroszner, said that the housing slump in the United States and financial turmoil have spread to global emerging markets, slowing growth and bringing stock market declines.
 In early August, the Fed said that more banks had tightened lending for homes, small businesses and credit cards. About 75 percent of United States banks indicated they had raised standards on prime mortgage loans, up from 60 percent in the previous survey, the central bank said.
 Mr. Hoenig dissented from a rate cut on Oct. 31 because of inflation concerns. Mr. Hoenig does not vote this year and will vote next in 2010. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (76%); MERGERS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



27 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Markets Decline On Economic Anxieties

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Stocks fell around the world Monday, led by Asian exchanges as concerns about a slowing global economy weighed on the markets. 
 Oil prices declined as Hurricane Gustav weakened, but investors were still waiting to see how much damage the storm might do to Gulf Coast oil operations.
 In Asia, South Korean shares were hardest hit, with the Korea Composite Stock Price Index falling 4.1 percent to 1,414.43, its lowest level in 17 months, amid multiyear weakness in the country's currency. 
 Japan's Nikkei 225 index, meanwhile, lost 1.83 percent to 12,834.18 as investors cashed in recent gains and Friday's drop on Wall Street darkened the near-term outlook.
 Taiwan's benchmark fell 3.3 percent, hurt by concerns about the country's electronics industry in the face of slowing world economic growth. Other stock measures in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore also retreated.
 In Europe, stocks fell more modestly. Britain's FTSE 100 closed down 0.60 percent at 5,602.80, Germany's DAX fell 0.01 percent to 6,421.80 and France's CAC slipped 0.23 percent to 4,472.13. The markets often take cues from Wall Street, but United States exchanges were closed for Labor Day.
 Global investors were uneasy after the United States released figures on Friday showing decreasing personal incomes and weak consumer spending, suggesting softer demand for foreign goods.
 Oil prices also were a concern as Gustav churned along the Gulf Coast, where oil companies had shut down drilling and refining operations. Signs that Gustav was weakening, however, eased some of investors' uneasiness as the day wore on. 
 While crude rose $2.79 to $118.25 in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile exchange early in the day, it later retreated to trade at $111.12 a barrel, down $4.34 from Friday's settlement.
 Although oil has fallen substantially since hitting a record of $147.27 in July, it remains expensive and a drag on economies.
 ''There's not much positive news. We have slowing down in the U.S and higher oil prices. So investors are clearly still worried,'' said Alex Tang, head of research at Core Pacific-Yamaichi in Hong Kong.
 Across Asia, companies that depend on the United States and other export markets took a beating, with cautious comments from the computer maker Dell weighing on the technology sector.
 The Hon Hai Precision Industry Company, a Taiwanese electronics manufacturer that supplies Apple and other leading brands, fell 6.9 percent after posting a decline in profits.
 In South Korea, Hynix Semiconductor, the world's second-largest manufacturer of computer memory chips, slid 11.3 percent. The handset maker LG Electronics fell 9.6 percent.
 South Korean airlines slumped, with Korean Air Lines declining by its daily limit of 14.95 percent. Analysts noted the won's fall is raising concerns about inflation as well as South Korea's economic fundamentals.
 Japanese exporters also lost ground, with the printer and digital camera maker Canon falling 2.63 percent and Toyota retreating 2.23 percent.
 As in other countries, Japan's major electronics makers had a rough day, as fears of a downturn in consumer spending at the year-end holiday season spread. Sanyo Electric dropped 4.09 percent, while Sony fell 2.36 percent, though the game maker Nintendo bucked the trend.
 In mainland China, the Shanghai Composite Index dropped 3 percent to 2,325.14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (84%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); COMPUTER MAKERS (66%); US LABOR DAY (66%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (60%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (60%); AIRLINES (60%)

COMPANY: HON HAI PRECISION INDUSTRY CO LTD (83%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (58%); SK HYNIX INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: HHPD (LSE) (83%); 2317 (TAIEX) (83%); LGLD (LSE) (58%); 066570 (KSE) (58%); HY9H (FRA) (57%); 000660 (KSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334417 ELECTRONIC CONNECTOR MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



28 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LOVE, LEE

 BODY:
 LOVE--Lee. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our longtime and cherished member, Lee Love. To her family we express our sympathy. 
May beautiful memory bring comfort to all who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Marcia Waxman, President Robert A. Calinoff, Secretary LOVE--Lee Morse, a pioneer in reporting on United Nations efforts to ensure the peaceful uses of outer space for over 40 years, passed away Sunday August 31. She wrote about the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space from its early days, and her personal relations were so close with committee members that during the Cold War years she was one of the very few people who was able to entertain delegates from both the United Sates and the former Soviet Union at the same occasion. By the time she left the U.N., only a few months prior to her illness, Lee had covered man's flights into space and the moon and reported on arguments over who owned the rights to outer space, seas and satellites orbits. She attended the annual International Aeronautical Congress all over the world and was elected to membership in the International Institute of Space Law in recognition of her work in the area of space law and policy. Lee was also hired by the United States Agency for International Development to go to places like Truk in Micronesia, to see if and how satellites could help its many islands to better communicate. Her generosity and warmth were eclipsed only by her beauty. A former model and actress, she studied at the Pasadena Playhouse in California. She grew up in Los Angeles, moved to New York and opened her heart and home to the world. In a world of givers and takers, she was a giver with no boundaries. Lee's love and devotion to the United Nations and its diplomatic concepts brought people together from all over the world regardless of race, religion or political beliefs. With her boundless energy, Lee touched and brought joy to so many people. She will be missed by all her family, friends and anyone fortunate to have been in her company. ''Lee Lee'', as she was known, by those closest to her, leaves behind her loving husband of sixty years, Matthew; her children, Wendy Barnard and Gregory Love and his fiance Nipa; and her grandchildren, Lance, Alessandra, Samantha and Anouchka and many loving nephews and nieces. The family would like to thank her loving caregivers, Alicia and Adja for their companionship and compassion in her final days. One of Lee Lee's favorite expressions was: Age is a number and mine is unlisted, and it will remain so as per her wishes. New York services will be held on Wednesday, 10:30am at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam and 91st, Manhattan. Funeral Services will be held on Friday at 2pm at Hillside Memorial Park in Los Angeles, 6001 W Centinela Ave., where she will rejoin her mother, father, and loving sister Florence. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Lee and Matthew Love Foundation (a charitable foundation) (860 UN Plaza Apt. 23A, NYC, NY 10017) for the funding of the Lee Love Award for members of the winning team at the International Institute of Space Laws annual Moot Court Competition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); SPACE LAW (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (86%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); COLD WAR (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS COMMITTEE ON THE PEACEFUL USES OF OUTER SPACE (57%); INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPACE LAW (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



29 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Prime Minister Resigns Unexpectedly

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda announced on Monday night that he would resign, abruptly ending his chronically unpopular government after just a year and leaving Japan's governing party scrambling to find fresh leadership ahead of crucial national elections.
 Mr. Fukuda's surprise announcement, made at a hastily called news conference, startled Japan and appeared to plunge the world's second largest economy into further political confusion. Last year, Mr. Fukuda's predecessor, the rightist Shinzo Abe, made an equally sudden resignation.
 Mr. Fukuda's decision was particularly unexpected because he took office last September as a veteran political insider widely counted on, after Mr. Abe's hasty departure, to bring stability and restore the Liberal Democratic Party's tarnished credibility. In the end, Mr. Fukuda, 72, lasted about as long as Mr. Abe, roughly a year. 
 His resignation was also surprising to many because it came just a month after he had reshuffled his cabinet, and just days after he unveiled a $17 billion economic stimulus package.
 Still, there had been widespread speculation that Mr. Fukuda, suffering from low ratings, might resign before the coming national elections, to give the party a chance to install a more popular leader. According to that thinking, the governing party might then call a snap election, hoping to ride the new leader's initial wave of approval to victory in the polls. 
 Most speculation on a successor has focused on Taro Aso, an outspoken, conservative former foreign minister who is now secretary general of the Liberal Democratic Party. Mr. Aso, whom Mr. Fukuda defeated to become prime minister last year, has not said whether he will run again. 
 The Liberal Democrats will convene to select their new leader. Since they control the lower house of Parliament, which chooses the prime minister, their selection will automatically acquire the post. The selection process is expected to take about two weeks, during which time Mr. Fukuda will remain in office.
 Mr. Fukuda, whose brief and unsuccessful term makes him unlikely to be one of the most favorably remembered Japanese prime ministers, fumed that he faced an uphill battle almost as soon as he took office. His short stint in office was also marked by a series of missteps and scandals, including allegations of graft at the Defense Ministry and his own cavalier comments about the government's apparent loss of the pension records of tens of millions of Japanese.
 Despite his political credentials, he proved incapable of breaking a parliamentary deadlock that delayed the selection of a new central bank chief and the renewal of a law allowing Japanese ships to refuel American and other vessels involved in the war in Afghanistan. These setbacks, along with the owlish Mr. Fukuda's own colorless style, hurt his approval ratings, which dropped below 30 percent in recent polls. 
 ''To be honest, from the beginning, longstanding problems appeared one after the other, and I had to face them,'' Mr. Fukuda said at the news conference, which was nationally televised. ''Dealing with them worked me to death.''
 He said he wanted to get out of the way for a new leader to break the current stalemate in Parliament, where the opposition controls the upper house, and to prepare the party for the elections.
 ''This is the perfect timing to not cause people too much trouble,'' Mr. Fukuda said.
 However, business leaders and opposition politicians were quick to criticize his abrupt exit, especially after Mr. Abe's sudden departure.
 ''It is an utterly irresponsible way to quit,'' Kozo Watanabe, a senior adviser at the Democratic Party, was quoted as saying by Kyodo News. ''I cannot help worrying about what will happen to this country's politics.''
 Indeed, a lack of strong leadership has plagued Japan, even as it has grappled with a host of new problems, including the rise of neighboring China and a slowdown in its $4.7 trillion economy. The resignations of both Mr. Fukuda and Mr. Abe, who led short-lived, unpopular governments, have highlighted the lack of stability here since the popular Junichiro Koizumi stepped down two years ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda cited a series of ''longstanding problems'' for his resignation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (93%); SHINZO ABE (79%); TARO ASO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



30 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: What the Palin Pick Says

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
 John McCain is not a normal conservative. He has instincts, but few abstract convictions about the proper size of government. He's a traditionalist, but is not energized by the social conservative agenda. As Rush Limbaugh understands, but the Democrats apparently do not, a McCain administration would not be like a Bush administration.
 The main axis in McCain's worldview is not left-right. It's public service versus narrow self-interest. Throughout his career, he has been drawn to those crusades that enabled him to launch frontal attacks on the concentrated powers of selfishness -- whether it was the big money donors who exploited the loose campaign finance system, the earmark specialists in Congress like Alaska's Don Young and Ted Stevens, the corrupt Pentagon contractors or Jack Abramoff. 
 When McCain met Sarah Palin last February, he was meeting the rarest of creatures, an American politician who sees the world as he does. Like McCain, Palin does not seem to have an explicit governing philosophy. Her background is socially conservative, but she has not pushed that as governor of Alaska. She seems to find it easier to work with liberal Democrats than the mandarins in her own party.
 Instead, she seems to get up in the morning to root out corruption. McCain was meeting a woman who risked her career taking on the corrupt Republican establishment in her own state, who twice defeated the oil companies, who made mortal enemies of the two people McCain has always held up as the carriers of the pork-barrel disease: Young and Stevens. 
 Many people are conditioned by their life experiences to see this choice of a running mate through the prism of identity politics, but that's the wrong frame. Sarah Barracuda was picked because she lit up every pattern in McCain's brain, because she seems so much like himself.
 The Palin pick allows McCain to run the way he wants to -- not as the old goat running against the fresh upstart, but as the crusader for virtue against the forces of selfishness. It allows him to make cleaning out the Augean stables of Washington the major issue of his campaign. 
 So my worries about Palin are not (primarily) about her lack of experience. She seems like a marvelous person. She is a dazzling political performer. And she has experienced more of typical American life than either McCain or his opponent. On Monday, an ugly feeding frenzy surrounded her daughter's pregnancy. But most Americans will understand that this is what happens in real life, that parents and congregations nurture young parents through this sort of thing every day. 
 My worry about Palin is that she shares McCain's primary weakness -- that she has a tendency to substitute a moral philosophy for a political philosophy. 
 There are some issues where the most important job is to rally the armies of decency against the armies of corruption: Confronting Putin, tackling earmarks and reforming the process of government.
 But most issues are not confrontations between virtue and vice. Most problems -- the ones Barack Obama is sure to focus on like health care reform and economic anxiety -- are the product of complex conditions. They require trade-offs and policy expertise. They are not solvable through the mere assertion of sterling character.
 McCain is certainly capable of practicing the politics of compromise and coalition-building. He engineered a complex immigration bill with Ted Kennedy and global warming legislation with Joe Lieberman. But if you are going to lead a vast administration as president, it really helps to have a clearly defined governing philosophy, a conscious sense of what government should and shouldn't do, a set of communicable priorities.
 If McCain is elected, he will face conditions tailor-made to foster disorder. He will be leading a divided and philosophically exhausted party. There simply aren't enough Republican experts left to staff an administration, so he will have to throw together a hodgepodge with independents and Democrats. He will confront Democratic majorities that will be enraged and recriminatory.
 On top of these conditions, he will have his own freewheeling qualities: a restless, thrill-seeking personality, a tendency to personalize issues, a tendency to lead life as a string of virtuous crusades.
 He really needs someone to impose a policy structure on his moral intuitions. He needs a very senior person who can organize a vast administration and insist that he tame his lone-pilot tendencies and work through the established corridors -- the National Security Council, the Domestic Policy Council. He needs a near-equal who can turn his instincts, which are great, into a doctrine that everybody else can predict and understand.
 Rob Portman or Bob Gates wouldn't have been politically exciting, but they are capable of performing those tasks. Palin, for all her gifts, is not. She underlines McCain's strength without compensating for his weaknesses. The real second fiddle job is still unfilled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); SARAH PALIN (79%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (73%); TED STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



31 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Head For the High Road

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The Democrats need to be careful about the intensity of their criticism of Sarah Palin.
 She may look like an easy target, an appalling lightweight who will send serious voters scurrying to the more substantive Obama-Biden ticket. And the temptation to get on her case probably became greater with Ms. Palin's disclosure Monday that her 17-year-old daughter is pregnant.
 But the Democrats should not push this stuff too far. Ms. Palin is a lot more appealing personally than the often testy guy at the top of her ticket. And the inescapable reality is that there are millions of voters who identify with her, and may be quick to resent attacks that they perceive as bullying or overkill. 
 Here's the deal: Palin is the latest G.O.P. distraction. She's meant to shift attention away from the real issue of this campaign -- the awful state of the nation after eight years of Republican rule. The Republicans are brilliant at distractions. Willie Horton was a distraction. The chatter about gays, guns and God has been a long-running distraction. And we all remember the Swift-boat campaign.
 If you want a real issue, forget all of the above and revisit Monday's front page of The New York Times. Hundreds of families are being forced out of their homes each month in Louisville, Ky., because of mortgage foreclosures. With record numbers of poor and homeless students, the public schools are struggling.
 The crisis has only been made worse by fiscal difficulties facing the schools. Higher energy and other costs, combined with a $43 million cut in state aid, have left the school system in a sorry state.
 The reason this should be high on the presidential campaign agendas is that the problems in Louisville are widespread. As Sam Dillon of The Times reported: ''As 50 million children return to classes across the nation, crippling increases in the price of fuel and food, coupled with the economic downturn, have left schools from California to Florida to Maine cutting costs.''
 Even as these districts are cutting back, wrote Mr. Dillon, ''the number of poor and homeless children is rising.''
 That is the kind of substantive issue the Democrats should be focused on: how to educate America's children and improve the quality of their lives; how to bring health care to those going without; how to put America back to work.
 To their credit, Senators Obama and Biden seem unwilling to jump aboard the bash-Ms.-Palin bandwagon. Both have been exceedingly mild in their comments about the Alaska governor.
 Last week's Democratic convention dramatically illustrated the most effective approach available to the party. The convention built in intensity night by night with featured speakers who focused powerfully on substantive matters.
 Bill Clinton may be wildly unpredictable, but last Wednesday he was magnificent, laying out the challenges that will face the next administration.
 Listen:
 ''Our nation is in trouble on two fronts. The American dream is under siege at home, and America's leadership in the world has been weakened. Middle-class and low-income Americans are hurting -- with incomes declining; job losses, poverty and inequality rising; mortgage foreclosures and credit card debt increasing; health care coverage disappearing; and a very big spike in the cost of food, utilities and gasoline.
 ''And our position in the world has been weakened by too much unilateralism and too little cooperation, by a perilous dependence on imported oil, by a refusal to lead on global warming, by a growing indebtedness and a dependence on foreign lenders, by a severely burdened military, by a backsliding on global nonproliferation and arms control agreements, and by a failure to consistently use the power of diplomacy, from the Middle East to Africa to Latin America to Central and Eastern Europe.''
 Respectful criticism of Sarah Palin is fine. But the great issues of this campaign loom like giant redwoods over the pathetic weeds of politics as usual and the myriad distractions that have turned one presidential election after another into a national embarrassment.
 Seventy-two years ago, in his renomination acceptance speech at the Democratic convention in Philadelphia (before more than 100,000 people gathered in Franklin Field), Franklin D. Roosevelt rose above the boiler-plate rhetoric of political speeches and spoke of his generation's ''rendezvous with destiny.''
 He warned of the perils to the nation of economic inequality. ''Liberty,'' he said, ''requires opportunity to make a living, a living decent according to the standard of the time, a living which gives man not only enough to live by, but something to live for.''
 Roosevelt's words echo across the decades because they resonate with the very meaning of America, a meaning that is so much deeper than what our politics have become. ''We are fighting,'' he told his audience, ''to save a great and precious form of government, for ourselves and for the world.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); FAMILY (70%); CHILD POVERTY (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); FORECLOSURE (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



32 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Palin's Teen Daughter Is Pregnant; New G.O.P. Tumult

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE. 
Michael Cooper, Jeff Zeleny and Mary Ann Giordano contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
The 17-year-old daughter of Gov. Sarah Palin, John McCain's running mate, is five months pregnant, the Alaskan governor announced Monday, adding a new element of tumult to a Republican convention that had already been disrupted by Hurricane Gustav.
 The daughter, Bristol, plans to marry the father, according to the statement, which was issued by Governor Palin and her husband, Todd.
 ''Our beautiful daughter Bristol came to us with news that as parents we knew would make her grow up faster than we had ever planned,'' the statement said. ''As Bristol faces the responsibilities of adulthood, she knows that she has our unconditional love and support.''
 The announcement came after a swirl of rumors by liberal bloggers that the governor's fifth child, who was born in April, was in fact her daughter's. 
 Groups that oppose abortion rights had been thrilled with Mr. McCain's selection of Ms. Palin as his running mate, partly because of her opposition to abortion. It is not clear how social conservatives will respond to the latest news, but the initial reaction of several delegates to the convention here was supportive of the family.
 The McCain campaign said it was aware of the daughter's pregnancy before Mr. McCain named Ms. Palin as his running mate on Friday.
 Steve Schmidt, the chief strategist for the McCain campaign, was surrounded by reporters and cameras as he walked through the media center next door to the Xcel Center in St. Paul, where the convention is taking place. Asked over and over when and how Mr. McCain found out about Bristol's pregnancy, he repeated, ''Senator McCain was aware'' of it and called it ''a private family matter.'' He would not say when Mr. McCain found out or how, calling it a ''private conversation.''
 ''The fact is, John McCain had a thorough search and made the decision to add Sarah Palin to the ticket because he believes'' that she ''will change America,'' Mr. Schmidt said.
 He said how big this becomes would depend on the media. ''I think the American people will see this news and they'd have good wishes for the young lady and they'll respect the privacy of the family,'' he said.
 Asked if Ms. Palin would be able to juggle the demands of the vice presidency with her complicated family life, Mr. Schmidt said, ''She's been a very effective governor and again I can't imagine that question being asked of a man.''
 Ms. Palin's statement identified the father only by a first name, Levi. ''Bristol and the young man she will marry are going to realize very quickly the difficulties of raising a child, which is why they will have the love and support of our entire family,'' the statement said. ''We ask the media, respect our daughter and Levi's privacy as has always been the tradition of children of candidates.''
 Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic nominee, was asked at a brief press conference in Monroe, Mich., about the suggestion by some Republicans that Democrats -- particularly liberal bloggers -- were trying to advance rumors about the Palin family.
 ''Our people were not involved in any way in this and they will not be,'' Mr. Obama snapped, his voice raised. ''And if I ever thought there was somebody in my campaign that was involved in something like that, they'd be fired, O.K.?''
 Mr. Obama said the pregnancy ''has no relevance to Governor Palin's performance as a governor or her potential performance as a vice president.'' He added that, ''my mother had me when she was 18. How a family deals with issues and teen-age children -- that shouldn't be the topic of our politics.''
 ''So,'' he added, ''I would strongly urge people to back off these kinds of stories.''
 Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina said that he had heard no discussion about removing Ms. Palin from the ticket. In fact, he said, he thought her daughter's pregnancy would not hurt her with voters.
 ''People are looking for real,'' he said in an interview. ''Real means blemishes, real means warts, real means real. These family imperfections make people say, 'That family isn't so different from my family.'''
 Early reaction among women at the Republican convention to the news about Bristol Palin's pregnancy was almost uniformly supportive.
 ''This happens to people in all walks of life,'' said Karen Minnis, 54, a state representative from Oregon.
 She also said she had no problem with Governor Palin continuing to campaign while her daughter is pregnant and she herself has an infant son.
 ''She's already proven herself as a very good multi-tasker,'' Ms. Minnis said. ''She comes from a great family and it just shouldn't be an issue.''
 When Pam Younggren, 61, of Fargo, N.D., was told the news of the 17-year-old's pregnancy, she shrugged. ''Well, she wouldn't be the first one,'' she said.
 ''We can't control what our daughters do,'' she said. ''I don't see it as a problem. She will have appropriate care for her baby.''
 Mikey Hoeven, 50, who is married to the governor of North Dakota, said that while the situation was difficult, she also said that Mrs. Palin is ''tough'' and would get through it.
 ''Our hearts and prayers go out to her,'' Mrs. Hoeven said. ''Just being a governor will be a challenge, but if anyone can do it, she can. This baby ultimately will be a blessing to the family.''
 The women had gathered in St. Paul at the Ordway Center for the Performing Arts, at an event about women and heart disease. It was one of the first events of the convention and began just after the news about Bristol Palin was coming over their Blackberries and cellphones.
 Some of them said, ''Oh, my God'' when they first heard the news, but they declined to discuss the matter with a reporter.
 Many more said they could relate to Mrs. Palin and saw no problem with her continuing to campaign.
 Doni Ingram, 61, assistant director of Economic and Community Development for the state of Alabama in Montgomery, said she felt sympathetic to Mrs. Palin because she had raised four children herself.
 ''She's raised five kids and has a professional career, and she'll be just fine,'' Mrs. Ingram said.
 At least two Democrats were at the event. Julie Zimmerman, 27, who is a program adviser with an educational program called The Washington Center, said she found the news ''shocking.''
 She also said she hoped the Republicans would undergo ''a fundamental re-evaluation of what they mean by family values'' and also use the moment to teach young women about sex education.
 But she and a friend, Dr. Rachel Sondheimer, 29, also with the Washington Center and an assistant professor of political science at West Point, said they did not really see a problem with the situation.
 ''If she thinks she can deal with her family and can do that, that's fine,'' Dr. Sondheimer said.
 Many of the Republican women, too, had a sense that this was just another challenge that women and mothers face all the time.
 ''My heart aches for them, I'm sure it's a tough time for them,'' said Sandy Boehler, who is the soon-to-be Republican national committeewoman for North Dakota. ''But we have to support them. Look at all the working mothers. Sarah sounds very capable.''
 Kathleen Wrigley, 38, who has three children and is married to the United States Attorney for North Dakota, brought up the example of John Edwards, who continued to campaign for president after his wife, Elizabeth, announced last year that she had a recurrence of breast cancer.
 ''When Edwards announced that, I hated to see anyone pass judgment on him,'' she said. ''This is not for anyone else to judge. I pray for them that they have the strength to do what's best.''
 At a rally Saturday evening in Washington, Pa., the day after Ms. Palin was named to the ticket, her daughter Bristol did not appear with the rest of her family on stage. The governor said she was taking care of the baby.
 ''Then we have our daughter Bristol, she's on the bus with the newborn, and then we have our daughter Willow, who is here, and our youngest daughter Piper,'' Ms. Palin said as she introduced her family. ''On that bus we have our son, Trig, who is a beautiful baby boy we welcomed into the world just in April. It's his naptime, so he is with his big sister on the bus. But we thank them for being here. ''
 ''And speaking of Trig, and other things, some of life's greatest opportunities come unexpectedly,'' she said. ''And this is certainly the case today. I never really set out to be in public affairs, much less to run for this office.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ABORTION (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERAL MEDIA (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); PARENTING (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (54%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008



33 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; WINES OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Meticulous, Modern and Very French

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
COTES DU RHONE -- it is such a familiar wine, almost a synonym for a not-too-fancy French red. Yet few wines can match Cotes du Rhone in exemplifying the myriad changes that have transformed the French wine industry in the last 20 years.
 In popular wine mythology, the French wine industry is static, unyielding to modernity. Depending on your point of view, that is either good or bad. In reality, the French have evolved quickly. They have recognized that the insular ways of the past no longer function in a globalized economy. 
 The Cotes du Rhone typifies what has happened in many French wine regions. Once its wines were the none-too-good tipples of bars and cafes, light and fruity if you were lucky, more likely tart and harsh. That sort of wine still exists in France, though a lot less of it than in generations past. Rarely do you find it in the United States. Once you could sell a lot of bad wine here if it was cheap enough. But now, there is too much competition among the good stuff.
 The current generation of French winemakers understands this. Unlike their forbears, many of them have traveled widely, worked around the world and studied enology and viticulture at universities. How they use what they have learned accounts for much that has changed in Cotes du Rhone today. 
 In a tasting of 25 Cotes du Rhone, the wine panel found a surprising number of plush, polished wines. Some were sleek and modern, so much so that they showed little trace of identity. They were fruity and well-made but not distinctive. Others were similarly well made yet displayed characteristic Rhone touches of earthiness and minerality. These tended to be our favorites. A few were clunky and overoaked; these we rejected. 
 For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Belinda Chang, wine director at the Modern in Midtown, and Chris Goodhart, who oversees the wine programs at Keith McNally's restaurants. 
 Chris, who had just returned from the Rhone, felt the wines we tasted were not exactly representative of the wines being made there, though they provided a cross-section of the wines available to American consumers. ''What we have here is a selection of wines that importers have chosen for the American and the New York market,'' he said. ''I found many more rustic wines there.''
 Rustic is one of those words with different meanings depending on who is speaking. Some use it disparagingly to mean rough and simple. Others use it as a term of admiration for wines that show more regional character than smooth polish. I had a feeling Chris was using it both ways.
 Belinda had a similar reaction. Noting that the tasting included fewer bad wines than she expected, she said, ''Here, we're seeing an expression of wine-making techniques, which is a huge plus for me, but the fun of 'Where is it from?' is getting lost.''
 The paradox, of course, is that modern techniques, with an emphasis on squeaky-clean winemaking, can iron out many of the wrinkles that give a wine character. Yet too many wrinkles can give a wine a character few would want. The key is wisdom, experience and an intuitive sense of how to lift a wine up without unmooring it from its origins.
 We filled our top 10 with wines like this. Several of our favorites came from little-known producers, including our Nos. 1 and 2. Domaine le Garrigon, whose 2006 was our top wine, uses only organically grown grapes, mostly grenache and carignan with a little syrah. The result was a pleasingly aromatic wine that neatly balanced fruity accessibility and tannic structure. At $14, it also proved that a Cotes du Rhone can still be an excellent value. 
 But it had some competition for best value from our No. 2 wine, the 2006 Domaine Gres St. Vincent, a bright, complex wine with floral and licorice flavors that was just $13.
 Most of the Cotes du Rhone we tasted were $20 or under, with three exceptions, which happen to be three of the most esteemed names in the Rhone business. Our No. 3 wine, the 2004 Chateau de Fonsalette, from Chateau Rayas, the great Chateauneuf producer, shows just what can be accomplished with very low yields and meticulous winemaking. This dense, fruity wine was $57, by far the most expensive wine in the tasting.
 Our No. 5 wine, the 2006 Auguste Clape, from the great Cornas producer, reminded me of a classic Cotes du Rhone, with its minerally fruit and herbal flavors amplified by graceful structure. It was $39. The 2006 Coudoulet de Beaucastel, from Chateau de Beaucastel, $25, was surprisingly on the modern side, full of sweet fruit that was pleasing but obscured a sense of Rhone identity.
 By contrast, the 2006 Mon Coeur from J. L. Chave, perhaps the most esteemed Rhone name of all yet just $17, was clearly old school Cotes du Rhone. Smoky, funky fruit flavors shined out from under a slight sheen of oak.
 A few wines that did not make our top 10 are worth mentioning. Parallele 45 from Paul Jaboulet Aine is perennially a good value and the 2006 at $9 was no exception -- direct, uncomplicated and enjoyable. We also liked the 2005 Andre Brunel Cotes du Rhone-Villages Cuvee Sabrine, and the tightly knit 2006 Cotes du Rhone -Villages Signargues from Domaine la Montagnette.
 While Cotes du Rhone can be made throughout the Rhone region, most come from the south and tend to be dominated by grenache, the leading grape of Chateauneuf-du-Pape, which naturally produces wines of high alcohol. This is cause for concern in the Rhone, where Chris, on a recent trip, heard discussion about how global warming was driving alcohol levels higher. It could be that more change lies ahead for Cotes du Rhone. 
 Tasting Report: Cotes du Rhone Comes Out to Play
 BEST VALUE
 Domaine le Garrigon Cotes du Rhone 2006
 $14
 *** 
 Balanced, meaty and textured with lovely cherry and pepper flavors. (Importer: Wineberry America, New York)
 Domaine Gres St. Vincent Cotes du Rhone 2006
 $13
 ***
 Bright, complex and delicious with violet, licorice and bacon flavors. (Jenny & Francois, New York)
 Chateau de Fonsalette Cotes du Rhone 2004
 $57
 ** 1/2 
 Rich, bright and fruity with flavors of spice and menthol. (Martine's Wines, Novato, Calif.)
 Les Vignerons d'Estezargues Cotes du Rhone-Villages Signargues Les 40emes Rugissants 2006
 $19
 ** 1/2 
 Earthy and rich with spicy flavors of blueberries, licorice and cinnamon. (Jenny & Francois)
 Auguste Clape Cotes du Rhone 2006
 $39
 ** 1/2
 Classic Cotes du Rhone, earthy and balanced with ripe fruit, mineral and herbal flavors. (Kermit Lynch Wine Merchant, Berkeley, Calif.)
 J. L. Chave Cotes du Rhone Mon Coeur 2006
 $17
 ** 1/2 
 Rustic and earthy with flavors of smoke, fruit and oak. (Erin Cannon Imports, Manhasset, N.Y.)
 Chateau de St. Cosme Cotes du Rhone Les Deux Albion 2006
 $20
 ** 
 Flavors of raspberry jam, bacon and minerals, but lots of oak. (The Stacole Company, Boca Raton, Calif.)
 Chateau du Beaucastel Cotes du Rhone Coudoulet de Beaucastel 2006
 $25
 ** 
 Bright, opulent and seductive but a trifle anonymous. (Vineyard Brands, Birmingham, Ala.)
 Eric Texier Cotes du Rhone 2005
 $16
 ** 
 Deep and textured with flavors of sour cherry and attractive funk. (Louis/Dressner Selections, New York)
 Domaine la Garrigue Cotes du Rhone Cuvee Romaine 2006
 $15
 ** 
 Not for everyone: flavors of plum, earth and funk with peppery fruit. (European Cellars/Eric Solomon Selections, Charlotte, N.C.)
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN:
 Ratings, from zero to four stars, reflect the panel's reaction to the wines, which were tasted with names and vintages concealed. The wines represent a selection generally available in good retail shops and restaurants and on the Internet. Prices are those paid in shops in the New York region.
 Tasting Coordinator: Bernard Kirsch
 Recipe: Pairings Black Olive Gnocchi With Tomatoes and Basil
 The eye can influence wine choices almost as easily as the nose or the palate. Snowy little pillows of gnocchi often suggest a white wine, but before me was a plate of dusky ones, darkened with black olive paste. The dish demanded a red wine, one with rustic heft. 
 Black olive gnocchi is a highlight at La Terrazza, the restaurant at the Splendido Hotel in Portofino, Italy, where my husband and I opted for a local red, a Rossese di Dolceacqua, alongside. It's a wine that Joseph Bastianich and David Lynch, the authors of ''Vino Italiano: The Regional Wines of Italy'' (Clarkson Potter, 2005), describe as ''likely to remind you of a light-styled Cotes du Rhone.'' Voila!
 The preparation is simple and will be successful as long as you apply a light touch.
 Adapted from La Terrazza, Portofino, Italy
 Time: 1 hour
 1 pound Idaho potatoes
 Salt
 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1 large clove garlic, sliced
 1 pound cherry tomatoes, quartered
 4 ounces pitted black or calamata olives
 Freshly ground black pepper
 1 cup flour
 1 1/4 cup freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano, more for serving
 2 large egg yolks, beaten
 2 1/2 tablespoons black olive paste
 20 fresh basil leaves, slivered.
 1. Place potatoes in a saucepan, cover with salted water and boil until tender, about 25 minutes. Meanwhile, heat oil in a skillet, add garlic, cook over medium heat until barely starting to color; stir in tomatoes. Coarsely chop olives and add half to the skillet. Cook briefly, until tomatoes collapse. Season with salt and pepper, and remove from heat.
 2. When potatoes are tender, peel and rice them into a large bowl. Mix all but 3 tablespoons flour with 1 1/4 cups cheese, toss with potatoes and pile in a mound on work surface. Make a well in center. Mix egg yolks and olive paste, and place in well. Chop remaining olives finely and add to well. Knead to blend ingredients and form a soft dough. Shape into a ball and divide in 8 portions. Roll each into a rope about 10 inches long and 1/2 inch in diameter. Cut into 1/2-inch dumplings (gnocchi). Dust with remaining flour and lightly pile in a bowl.
 3. Bring 4 quarts salted water to a boil. Reduce heat to a fast simmer, add gnocchi and as they rise to the surface, use a slotted spoon or skimmer to remove to a colander. Drain.
 4. Reheat sauce in skillet, fold in basil and add gnocchi. Heat, mixing gently. Check seasoning and serve, with extra cheese alongside. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Pairings Black Olive Gnocchi With Tomatoes and Basil
 The eye can influence wine choices almost as easily as the nose or the palate. Snowy little pillows of gnocchi often suggest a white wine, but before me was a plate of dusky ones, darkened with black olive paste. The dish demanded a red wine, one with rustic heft. 
 Black olive gnocchi is a highlight at La Terrazza, the restaurant at the Splendido Hotel in Portofino, Italy, where my husband and I opted for a local red, a Rossese di Dolceacqua, alongside. It's a wine that Joseph Bastianich and David Lynch, the authors of ''Vino Italiano: The Regional Wines of Italy'' (Clarkson Potter, 2005), describe as ''likely to remind you of a light-styled Cotes du Rhone.'' Voila!
 The preparation is simple and will be successful as long as you apply a light touch.
 Adapted from La Terrazza, Portofino, Italy
 Time: 1 hour
 1 pound Idaho potatoes
 Salt
 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1 large clove garlic, sliced
 1 pound cherry tomatoes, quartered
 4 ounces pitted black or calamata olives
 Freshly ground black pepper
 1 cup flour
 1 1/4 cup freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano, more for serving
 2 large egg yolks, beaten
 2 1/2 tablespoons black olive paste
 20 fresh basil leaves, slivered.
 1. Place potatoes in a saucepan, cover with salted water and boil until tender, about 25 minutes. Meanwhile, heat oil in a skillet, add garlic, cook over medium heat until barely starting to color; stir in tomatoes. Coarsely chop olives and add half to the skillet. Cook briefly, until tomatoes collapse. Season with salt and pepper, and remove from heat.
 2. When potatoes are tender, peel and rice them into a large bowl. Mix all but 3 tablespoons flour with 1 1/4 cups cheese, toss with potatoes and pile in a mound on work surface. Make a well in center. Mix egg yolks and olive paste, and place in well. Chop remaining olives finely and add to well. Knead to blend ingredients and form a soft dough. Shape into a ball and divide in 8 portions. Roll each into a rope about 10 inches long and 1/2 inch in diameter. Cut into 1/2-inch dumplings (gnocchi). Dust with remaining flour and lightly pile in a bowl.
 3. Bring 4 quarts salted water to a boil. Reduce heat to a fast simmer, add gnocchi and as they rise to the surface, use a slotted spoon or skimmer to remove to a colander. Drain.
 4. Reheat sauce in skillet, fold in basil and add gnocchi. Heat, mixing gently. Check seasoning and serve, with extra cheese alongside. 
 Yield: 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINE (90%); WINERIES (89%); HORTICULTURE (78%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



34 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Away Down South, 2 Museums Grapple With the Civil War Story

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Va. -- For Northerners, the history of the Civil War seems pretty much settled. We know that from the nation's founding, economic and cultural differences -- particularly those surrounding slavery -- created tensions between the North and the South; that the elimination of slavery only fitfully became a Union goal during the war; and that it ultimately took a century for black Americans to glimpse the equality guaranteed by the nation's ideals.
But for all its bloodshed, we see the Civil War as necessary and Abraham Lincoln as its visionary hero; it was a preamble to the United States' becoming what it always should have been.
Things are interpreted more ambiguously here in what once was the capital of the Confederate States of America. Forty-three battles took place within 30 miles of the ''White House of the Confederacy'': the pillared mansion where this self-declared nation housed its only president, Jefferson Davis, from 1861 to 1865. And while history may be typically written by the victors, here it seems to shape a looking-glass world in which perspectives are shifted and emphases altered, jarring emotions and assumptions. 
In many ways the Civil War still seems to rage. In 2003, when a statue of Lincoln was donated for display outside the Civil War Visitor Center of the National Park Service, in downtown Richmond, immediate protests erupted -- not over its maudlin character, but over the very idea of honoring an oppressor. The dedication ceremony was buzzed by a plane trailing a banner proclaiming, ''Sic semper tyrannis,'' which is not only Virginia's motto (meaning ''Thus, always, to tyrants''), but also what John Wilkes Booth is said to have called out while assassinating Lincoln.
Is such ugliness, then, what is meant by the ''other side'' of Civil War history? At times, surely, but institutions here -- the Museum of the Confederacy and the American Civil War Center -- argue that the war should be seen, at least in part, from the perspective of the losing side, and that such understanding need not be completely derailed by the moral outrage of slavery.
The Museum of the Confederacy may be facing the limitations of that position. Annual attendance, from a 1991 peak of 91,000, has been dropping, to about 48,000 in the last year. Its 1976 building, like the adjacent White House, is also hemmed in by a growing hospital complex. So the institution has put together an ambitious $15 million plan to create a system of four museums in historic Virginia areas, increasing display space for its extensive collection.
The American Civil War Center, which raised $13.6 million before opening in 2006 to much praise, has fewer apparent problems, though attendance is still low (about 25,000 in the past year). It creates a broader panorama, offering not one perspective but three: those of the Union, the Confederacy and the African-Americans.
Such retellings are proliferating, perhaps in anticipation of the 150th anniversary of the war's start, in 2011. A new visitor center recently opened next to the Gettysburg battlefield in Pennsylvania, and this fall the New-York Historical Society presents an exhibition about Ulysses S. Grant and Robert E. Lee that it is modifying from a show first mounted by the Virginia Historical Society, shifting the Southern perspective northward.
An empathetic exposition of the Confederate perspective poses some knotty problems. Confederate symbols are more than mere artifacts. The flag was the badge of segregationists in the civil rights era; it retains that resonance. Sensitivities to such allusions are high: a controversy erupted recently over the American Civil War Center's acceptance of a statue of Davis donated by the Sons of Confederate Veterans.
The Museum of the Confederacy, then, has a daunting task. It was founded in the 1890s by the daughters of Lee and Davis and other women, who solicited memorabilia from Confederate families to create a nostalgic shrine to what was then called the Lost Cause. During the last two decades the museum has been delicately redefining itself. It has an extraordinary collection of 15,000 artifacts and 100,000 manuscripts. It has become a scholarly resource and has published valuable books like ''Before Freedom Came: African-American Life in the Antebellum South.''
But whiffs of the Old South still emerge here and there, particularly in its main exhibition, ''The Confederate Years.'' For example, in describing the war's opening battle at Fort Sumter in Charleston, S.C., the wall text oddly states that because Lincoln was determined not to begin the war against the seceding South, he ''succeeded in maneuvering the Confederacy into firing the first shot of the war.''
There is also little discussion of slavery before or during the Confederacy. Instead there is a short display titled ''Confederate Preparation for War: Mobilizing the African-American Population.'' This mobilization called up ''tens of thousands of African-American laborers'' described as both ''enslaved and free.'' This is so peculiar a reference to a society in which, in 1860, one-third of the South's population -- 3,950,511 souls -- was enslaved, that it seems deluded or obfuscatory. The exhibition's refusal to illuminate fully the lives of the Confederacy's black inhabitants (during the war more than a half-million fled to freedom in the North) suggests that an embrace of the Lost Cause has not been fully relinquished.
The other flaw is the museum's almost exclusive attention to the war and the lives of soldiers. But an exhibition on Virginia and the Confederacy on the museum's lower level is far more frank about slavery and demonstrates how powerful a truly complete portrait of Confederate society might one day be, perhaps even showing the strains on the very institutions -- plantations and slavery --that secession was meant to protect.
Despite such limitations, the museum sheds light on a dark time. The Confederacy fully believed it was fighting a second American Revolution. Davis spoke of ''the holy cause of constitutional liberty.'' Slavery and associated attitudes were so commonplace that they were taken for granted. But some similarities appear between the Union and the Confederacy: each saw itself as heir to the nation's founders; each saw the other as tyrannical.
For the South, the cost of these convictions was particularly high. The museum's chronological accounts of battles; its displays of uniforms with faded blood spots, of Lee's battlefield tent, of a blood-stained letter written by a dying soldier to his father -- all this reveals something touchingly human. The only problem is that you never come to grasp precisely why these men were sacrificing their lives.
For greater understanding you must go to the American Civil War Center, housed in the historic Tredegar Iron Works that once supplied the Confederacy with much weaponry. A scrupulous timeline, along with artifacts (some lent by the Museum of the Confederacy), chronicles the economic impact of slavery, debates about secession, westward expansion, the North's mixed motives, the Emancipation Proclamation, General Sherman's onslaught, the flawed Reconstruction, the evolving modern nation.
There are times when the tell-all-sides pose becomes intrusive, particularly since competing ideological positions are strangely called Union, Home and Freedom. Their initials -- U, H and F -- confusedly dot maps of battles. There are times, too, when the narrative strains to reassure the advocates of Home (the South): in one film an actor irrelevantly points out that although the North lacked slavery, it did have children working inhumanly long hours in factories, so no side had a ''monopoly on virtue.''
But you do get a valuable sense of how differing perspectives intertwine. The evolution of Lincoln's pragmatic stance toward emancipation, for example, is subtly illuminated.
If anything, the museum's tale is too sweepingly abstract; it is so preoccupied with multiple perspectives that it does not provide a strong sense of the people who embodied them. And while the framework of multiple poses is intended to reassure local constituencies, the museum works not because it offers different historical narratives but because it creates out of many, one.
Both institutions also inadvertently provide lessons on the limits of relativism. Yes, the Confederacy is a part of American history that needs to be better understood, and slavery and race should not be the only windows through which it is viewed. But another kind of judgment is also needed here. Much depends on whether we view the Civil War as the apocalyptic end of a roseate past or the bloody beginning of a promising future. And that is what contemporary controversies over the Civil War are all about.
The Museum of the Confederacy is at 1201 East Clay Street, Richmond, Va.; (804) 649-1861 or moc.org. The American Civil War Center is at 500 Tredegar Street, Richmond; (804) 780-1865 or tredegar.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Artifacts belonging to Stonewall Jackson, the Confederate general, at the Museum of the Confederacy in Richmond, Va.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E1)
The American Civil War Center provides multiple perspectives.
 The Museum of the Confederacy opened in the 1890s.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SLAVERY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORY (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



35 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Old Facades Refreshed for Efficiency and Higher Rents

BYLINE: By ALEC APPELBAUM

 BODY:
After paying $250 million in late 2005 for a drab 12-story building in Washington, built in 1968 a few blocks from the White House, Marshall Allan knew he needed to improve the appearance of the facade. It had an exterior of windows spaced five feet apart -- much darker and duller than the all-glass facades that attract many commercial tenants.
 Mr. Allan is a founder of Somerset Partners, a private equity firm that invests in high-density real estate. It frequently seeks faded buildings in central business districts, hoping to refresh them with new technology and amenities and charge higher rents.
 Somerset's architect, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, proposed creating an entirely new exterior and installing it office by office in stages, as current tenants worked out new leases or renegotiated old ones. The conversion to full-floor glass at the building, 1801 K Street NW, began in April and is to be completed in January at a cost that Mr. Allan describes as ''in excess of $60 million.'' 
 The renovation will not only provide the 10 office tenants and five retail tenants with floor-to-ceiling glass, it will also enhance the building's glamour and increase its energy efficiency. Those improvements, in turn, can help a landlord lease bigger blocks of space at higher rents. 
 Somerset, according to an executive vice president, Gregory Knoop, is marketing 1801 K Street's top two floors at an annual asking rent of $70 a square foot, 40 percent higher than the building's owner asked before the renovation.
 The project is a signal example of an emerging national trend as owners of middle-aged office buildings strive to provide better energy efficiency and handsomer appearance -- and to do it fast, before an existing base of tenants disappears. 
 A whole generation of glass-clad office buildings will need retrofits in the next 10 years.
 Some just look dowdy, as 1801 K Street did. Others are in cities where laws require lower greenhouse-gas emissions, as has been proposed by New York's mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg. A well-sealed facade minimizes heat loss, and modern glass is better able to filter the sunlight so that it more effectively illuminates the interior. Such qualities can help reduce electricity use, especially on hot summer days when the strain on coal-burning power plants is most intense.
 In other cases, owners worry that the brittle glass in early glass-clad buildings, which were typically built in the 1960s, may fail in the heavy winds and rainfall that climate change will make more frequent.
 That is what happened at One Indiana Square, a professional building in Indianapolis whose panels blew off in a 2006 wind storm.
 There, Gensler, a prominent architecture firm that has made a specialty of recladding buildings without displacing tenants, connected horizontal tubes to structural columns as rigging and installed a new facade of glass panels.
 It put new prefabricated glass panels on a new set of beams, and then removed the tubes to create a new wall. ''A crew will come into your office at night, take out the old window and old aluminum and old heating unit, vacuum and clean it out by the next morning,'' said David Epstein, an architect with Gensler. 
 How quickly and easily a landlord can drape a new skin depends in part on the condition of the building's core. In the past, conventional retrofitting typically involved an empty building or subjected tenants to rigging and scaffolds for weeks. Now, with the office market in a downturn, architecture firms have learned to do it without asking tenants to leave -- or bothering them for more than a couple of days. 
 Despite weak glass, many buildings like 1801 K Street stand on skeletons of concrete, which strengthens over time. Skidmore tested the 12-story building's concrete and found that it was as sturdy as anything a developer might build now. 
 So Skidmore realized that when a tenant left a space, the contractor could remove the existing inner panels and glass, then attach glass panels in new metal frames to create a new vertical grid. ''It's human demolition,'' Mr. Allan said. ''Guys come in and remove the wall by hand. An office wall can be demolished in a night, executives can work in an interior conference room the next day and come back to floor-to-ceiling glass.'' 
 Somerset Partners is getting 600 more rentable square feet to each of the building's 12 stories by moving the window line farther from the core. ''We're taking a building that had about 30 percent glass on the exterior and didn't meet the energy code and making it one with high-performing insulated glass that exceed the energy code,'' said Rod Garrett, an associate director at Skidmore. ''It really does transform the building from the inside out.''
 In other retrofits, today's architects can make amends for past folly. William Pereira, who designed San Francisco's iconic Transamerica Pyramid, concocted a Los Angeles tower for Transamerica in 1965 with horizontal and vertical fins around the outside, so it looked like a building covered in burrs. 
 LBA Realty, which bought the property in 2005 after it had become the AT&T Center, commissioned a lighter-looking facade with rods of light on top. ''The goal was to emphasize verticality,'' said John Adams, a principal at Gensler.
 Contractors riding on a window-washing scale cut away the parallel fins and attached metal panels to the perpendicular ones to hold a new sheer glass exterior. The first phase of recladding ended in 2007, and the owner expects the entire project to wrap up late this year. ''The effect on tenants was, I would say, nil,'' says Mr. Adams. Energy costs fell 15 percent, says the owner, who is applying for LEED gold certification. 
 There is also an unusual new source of money for retrofits: the Clinton Climate Initiative, a project of Bill Clinton's foundation, which has been applying a $5 billion loan fund from major banks to retrofit programs in 16 cities. 
 ''There's no question that reskinning the existing building stock will become more and more prevalent,'' said Rick Cook, a partner in Cook & Fox of New York. The firm is recladding a Verizon equipment tower at 375 Pearl Street, near the Brooklyn Bridge, for use as an office building.
 Frank Frankini, a senior vice president of Equity Office Properties, is managing a similar project in Midtown Manhattan. He told an audience in July: ''Recycling older buildings in central business districts will come when there's economic justification for landlords. And we're there now.'' 
 But many building owners may be cautious about undertaking such work. A McKinsey Global Institute study in 2007 reported that 73 percent of commercial building users would decline efficiency investments that failed to pay for themselves in two years or less, presumably through rent increases and savings on energy costs and insurance premiums. 
 For that reason, architects are learning to master quick recladding projects and the choreography they entail in occupied buildings. Gensler is developing a means of attaching an entire prefabricated exterior in 12 hours, though it has yet to test it. Jonathan Rose, president of a green-minded New York development and real estate consulting firm that bears his name (and whose Manhattan office at 380 Madison Avenue underwent an intrusive recladding in the late 1980s), has started a fund that invests in retrofitting aging buildings in central districts. He sees adding better-insulated glass as a vital way to make a building waste less energy, so long as the process does not drive tenants to relocate elsewhere. ''If you have tenants in a building where you see the upside ingreening,'' he said, ''you should keep the tenants happy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 12-story building at 1801 K Street in Washington, above, is being refitted with a new exterior, office by office, as current tenants work out new leases or renegotiate old ones. Left, an artist's rendering of the completed renovation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH SKIDMORE, OWINGS & MERRILL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); TRENDS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); EMISSIONS (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (62%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (61%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (50%) INDIANA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



36 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 898 words

PERSON: Thomas Bata 

HEADLINE: Thomas Bata, 93, 'Shoemaker to the World,' Dies

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Thomas J. Bata, who moved his family business to Canada ahead of the German invasion of Czechoslovakia and later became, as he put it, ''shoemaker to the world,'' died in Toronto on Monday. He was 93.
 Mr. Bata died in a hospital, Leslie Tenenbaum, the general counsel for Bata, said. The family is not disclosing the cause of death, he said. 
 Mr. Bata's footwear is not well known among fanciers of designer shoes from Manolo Blahnik or fans of the latest sneakers from Nike. But Mr. Bata made the company, which was founded by his father, so pervasive in the developing world that, according to Mr. Tenenbaum, Bata became a generic noun for shoe in some parts of it, particularly in Africa. It is, Mr. Tenenbaum added, a situation that somewhat dismays him in his role as the protector of the company's trademarks.
 Mr. Bata, who was born in Prague on Sept. 17, 1914, gradually assumed control of the family business after his father's death in an airplane crash in 1932. Bata was already a substantial operation at that time. Based in Zlin, Czechoslovakia, the company was then making about 36 million pairs of shoes a year and exporting to the United States and Asia while also operating retail shops in several European countries.
 With Europe apparently heading toward war in 1938, it was decided that Mr. Bata should establish a North American operation. In his autobiography ''Bata, Shoemaker to the World,'' written with Sonja Sinclair, Mr. Bata recalled that Canada was picked, at least in part, because of the ''romantic tales about the Wild West and about northern explorers'' his mother had read to him as a child. To Mr. Bata's dismay, when he arrived in Canada in 1939 he found its countryside and cities to be rundown and dirty compared with Europe.
 With Czechoslovakia's future looking uncertain, the company decided that rather than establish a branch plant in Canada, it would make the new operation an alternative headquarters to Zlin. The plan did not meet an entirely warm reception in Canada, where unemployment was high and many domestic shoemakers were fighting for survival. Mr. Bata had to settle for importing 100 workers and managers from Zlin after the government turned down his request for 250.
 To house the workers and the new plant, Mr. Bata established a company town southwest of Ottawa complete with a corporate ski hill. Called Batawa (an amalgam of Bata and Ottawa), it became the first of a series of Bata company towns around the world.
 Mr. Bata fought in the Canadian Army during World War II. The war's aftermath was devastating for the company. Many of its facilities had been destroyed, and many of those that survived, including Zlin, had been nationalized. A complex holding company structure, however, meant that the Bata family still controlled substantial assets.
 While the company invested in developing the Canadian business as well as in rebuilding traditional markets in Western Europe, its greatest success came in regions where factory-made shoes had made few inroads.
 That expansion sometimes brought Mr. Bata into negotiations with infamous political leaders, like Idi Amin in Uganda, and the policies of some countries created public relations and diplomatic headaches for Bata and the government of Canada. Under pressure from the Canadian government, Bata sold its South African operation because of apartheid. While he was opposed to the system, Mr. Bata said in his autobiography, he would have preferred to stay and continue providing employment, health care and educational services.
 Mr. Bata also made it clear that the company's move into less-developed markets was primarily motivated by business concerns. 
 ''We expanded into Africa in order to sell shoes, not to spread sweetness and light,'' he said.
 His company now employs an estimated 40,000 workers in factories in 25 countries and sells about 300 million pairs of shoes a year. 
 Mr. Bata's son, Thomas George Bata, became chairman and chief executive of the company in 2001, but the elder Mr. Bata remained active in its operations and carried business cards listing his title as ''chief shoe salesman.'' At his death, Mr. Bata was planning a tour of the company's European operations.
 In addition to his son, Mr. Bata is survived by his wife, Sonja, and three daughters, Christine Bata Schmidt, Monica Pignal and Rosemarie Bata.
 In Canada, his public profile was somewhat overshadowed by that of his wife, who was the daughter of the Bata family's corporate lawyer in prewar Europe. She is the founding chairwoman of the Bata Shoe Museum in Toronto.
 The company is still family owned, but little of it remains in Canada. Its headquarters are now in Lausanne, Switzerland; the company's Canadian retail chains have been sold or closed; and production stopped in Batawa about eight years ago. Mrs. Bata has bought the community from Bata and started a separate venture to redevelop it as a residential community. She recently donated about $1 million for a ski lift.
 After the Velvet Revolution, Mr. Bata returned to the Czech Republic in 1989 at the invitation of President Vaclav Havel. He was greeted by crowds at the airport of his birthplace and later re-established operations in the country that had once nationalized his company. Since then, Mr. Bata made several return trips and established a charitable foundation there.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sept. 3 about the shoe manufacturer Thomas J. Bata misidentified the name of his homeland upon his return to Prague in 1989. It was Czechoslovakia -- not the Czech Republic, which was not established until 1993.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Bata in 2005.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETR DAVID JOSEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); FOOTWEAR MFG (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); ARMIES (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); LAWYERS (57%); TRADEMARK LAW (53%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (52%); RETAILERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%) CANADA (96%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (76%); GERMANY (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

CATEGORY: industrial and Graphic Design

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



37 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: City Feels the Economic Pinch, but It's Only a Pinch, So Far

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Dmitry Kiper and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
On the campaign trail, in boardrooms and around kitchen tables nationwide, much of the talk about the economy is dire. Homeowners are facing foreclosure, major banks have failed and Wall Street has laid off thousands of workers. In Albany, Gov. David A. Paterson has invoked the Great Depression in warning about the severity of the recession he says is under way. 
 But amid the silk draperies and antique armoires at ABC Carpet & Home, the home-furnishings emporium near Union Square, such grim assessments seem far removed. ''For us, it's business as usual,'' said Paulette Cole, ABC's creative director and chief executive, who said sales have risen in all but one month of 2008.
 Across the city, owners of independent businesses agree that the city is in the throes of an economic downturn. Consumers are feeling pinched, they say, credit is harder to come by, and higher food and fuel costs are eating into profits. 
 To a surprising degree, though, many say they are not feeling deep pain from the slowdown -- at least not yet. Many say they have had to reduce prices, but their sales are holding steady or are down only slightly. Others say they are moving ahead with plans to expand or open new branches, stormy economic forecasts notwithstanding. 
 Take the case of American Apparel, a fast-growing chain that sells T-shirts and other basic clothing designed for urban youth. It has opened two stores in New York City in 2008 and plans to open four more before year end, according to Adrian Kowalewski, the company's director of corporate finance and development.
 ''We haven't seen anything but an increase in our business, despite the slowdown in the overall economy,'' Mr. Kowalewski said.
 Some economists and business owners say they believe city residents have been buffered from some of the financial pains afflicting the suburbs and the rest of the nation. A booming tourism trade has helped keep spending up at many stores, they say, and the effects of inflation at the gas pump have not been so acute, since many New Yorkers do not drive. (A Quinnipiac poll conducted in early August showed upstate residents were more worried about gas prices than food prices, but that the relation was reversed for city residents.) 
 ''Many of our customers are young, urban dwellers, and so are not as exposed directly to increases in fuel prices or the meltdown in the housing market,'' Mr. Kowalewski said.
 Moreover, the effect of the mortgage crisis and the decline in real estate values has not been as severe in New York as in other parts of the country. While foreclosures are mounting fast in some sections of the city, particularly in Queens and Brooklyn, housing values in the metropolitan area have fallen much more slowly than in some other big cities, like Los Angeles and Miami. 
 Overall, home prices in the New York City region dropped about 7 percent in the last year, compared with almost 16 percent nationally, according to the S&P/Case-Schiller index.
 Still, some business leaders and economists say it is only a matter of time -- possibly just weeks -- before the city gets lashed by the same negative forces that are dragging down other parts of the country. 
 Kathryn S. Wylde, chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, said chief executives of many of the city's biggest employers were convinced that the retrenchment under way on Wall Street would have deep and lasting effects on the city's economy. That retrenchment has been cushioned by the free spending of foreign tourists attracted by the weak dollar, she said.
 ''The difference is it's not a crash like the Great Depression,'' Ms. Wylde said. ''It is a gradual letting the air out of the balloon, an economy that is deflating. And that could be a process that's 2 years or 10 years for New York.''
 Stephen Kagann, who was the chief economist for former Gov. George E. Pataki, said the effect of Wall Street layoffs was spreading in slow motion, reminding him of the delayed reaction to the stock market crash of 1987. The recession that followed that crash did not set in for more than a year, and when it did, it was deeper and lasted longer in the New York region than in the rest of the country.
 Mr. Kagann said he was not certain whether New York was already in a recession or on the verge of one, but he added, ''However you slice it, we've got economic problems in this country.''
 At Harlem Drugs on Lenox Avenue, the owner, Jacob Kurian, says he has no doubt about the state of the economy. 
 ''It's a pretty sad state of affairs,'' said Mr. Kurian, an immigrant from India who has operated his neighborhood pharmacy for five years. ''Is the economy in a recession? Absolutely. We're not ready to admit it, but it's there.''
 If his disappointing sales do not improve in the next few months, he said, ''I'm closing it.'' 
 He is not alone. Just down the street from Mr. Kurian's drug store, at Gi-Amor's Salon and Spa, the owner, Annunciata Cornelius, said business had started dropping off in mid-July and was the slowest it had been in three years. 
 ''I'm hoping Obama will change the energy, give a boost to the economy,'' said Ms. Cornelius, 34.
 Even some street vendors have begun to detect that spending is ebbing, despite the tourism boom.
 ''This summer, it has gone into a slow decline,'' said Stella Fix, 28, a Chelsea resident who sells pop-art images in Union Square for $30 each. Ms. Fix said that she, like her customers, had become more cost-conscious, taking note of prices in the grocery store for the first time.
 ''I notice that people, their cash flows seem to be really tight,'' Ms. Fix said. ''If they can charge something, they will do that and try to pay it off at the end of the month.'' But lately, she added, ''At the end of the month, there's nothing there.''
 But many business owners say that even though they have been squeezed by declining consumer spending, they do not feel the city is in a recession. And some are quite upbeat about the local economy's prospects.
 At Belenky Brothers, a jewelry boutique and contemporary art gallery in SoHo, Manhattan, Seth Bloomgarden, a partner, said he thought some customers had scaled back their purchases more from a reluctance to flaunt their wealth than from a shortage of cash. People who might have bought engagement rings of two to three carats a year ago are looking at diamonds about half as large now, he said. 
 He is counting on gains this fall. ''Although things are a little bit sluggish at the moment, we really feel that there's going to be a huge rebound, especially after the election,'' Mr. Bloomgarden said.
 Simon Oren, who owns or manages more than a dozen restaurants in Manhattan, including Marseille in Midtown and Nice Matin on the Upper West Side, said customers have begun shifting down in their tastes and spending this summer. 
 On Ninth Avenue, where he has three restaurants on a single block, some traffic has shifted from Marseille, which serves mussels and steak frites, to his two more casual restaurants, Five Napkin Burger and Nizza, a pasta and pizza restaurant, he said.
 But even if people are buying less expensive food and wine, they are still buying, he said.
 ''We don't feel a recession, per se, but there is a slowdown,'' Mr. Oren said. 
 He is considering opening more casual, inexpensive restaurants, if rents start to decline, he said.
 At Rocketship, a comic book store in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, sales have not tailed off this summer, said Alex Cox, 31, a co-owner. 
 ''Things have been good,'' Mr. Coxsaid, as his lunch cooled on the counter while he helped a customer order a subscription. ''There's no indication of anything bad, but we're still young. We've been here for three-years so we're still in our growing period.''
 At Exit9, a gift shop nearby, Lexie Zimmerman, 32, has found that customers with disposable income can still be persuaded to spend some of it on items they think have lasting value. She then offered to reduce the price of a designer handbag slightly to entice a woman to buy it. 
 ''I think I'm going to splurge,'' the woman responded.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Annunciata Cornelius, owner of Gi- Amor's Salon and Spa, said business was off but she hoped Barack Obama would help the economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Paulette Cole, chief executive of ABC Carpet & Home, said sales were up this year. ''For us, it's business as usual,'' she said.
 Seth Bloomgarden, a partner at Belenky Brothers, an art and jewelry store in SoHo, predicted a rebound after the election.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%)

COMPANY: ABC HOME FURNISHINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



38 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Plunge to Five-Month Low

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Shares on Wall Street turned negative Tuesday afternoon after the Dow Jones industrial average soared more than 200 points in morning trading after a decline in oil prices.
 The gains were erased by the afternoon after shares of energy companies fell sharply, as investors bet that falling oil prices could hurt refineries and oil giants like Exxon Mobil and Chevron. The Dow closed down 26.63 points, to 11,516.92, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped about 0.41 percent or 5.25 points to 1,277.58. The Nasdaq declined 18.28 points, or 0.77 percent, to 2,349.24
 The drop in oil prices dragged down the entire commodities sector, and initially lifted the stock markets as investors hoped that cheaper energy could nudge up consumer spending. 
 Crude oil futures fell to just over $105 a barrel in early trading, a five-month low, on Tuesday morning before climbing back slightly. Some investors had been concerned that Hurricane Gustav would disrupt refinery activity and oil supply chains in the Gulf Coast, but the storm passed over much of the region's energy infrastructure. 
 ''The storm, thank God, was not as bad as initially thought,'' said Tom Bentz, an energy analyst at BNP Paribas in New York, which led investors to sell off their bets that the price of oil would move higher. Oil declined $5.75 to settle at $109.71 a barrel.
 Although a single day's move does not make a trend, an extended drop in oil prices would be a great relief for companies that have suffered under the myriad costs of expensive crude. The transportation industry, and particularly airlines, has seen its business model seriously disrupted by expensive fuel prices. Shares of Continental rose 9 percent, United shares were up 10 percent, and Delta picked up 12 percent. 
 Businesses that depend on deep-pocketed consumers also rose, as investors hoped that an easing in energy prices would encourage Americans to spend more freely. 
 But the major indexes were dragged lower by steep drop-offs in energy shares. Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil company, fell 2.1 percent while Chevron fell 2.6 percent and ConocoPhillips 3.7 percent. Shares in two large coal producers, Peabody Energy and Massey Energy, also declined.
 The dollar strengthened against several foreign currencies, a common result of dropping oil prices. Raw materials like oil are often used as a hedge against the dollar, so their prices tend to move in opposite directions. The dollar rose 0.8 percent against the euro, which fell to $1.4501, from $1.4617 in the previous session. The American currency is trading at a seven-month high against the euro and a two-year high against the British pound.
 Commodities prices fell across the board, with corn, wheat, coffee and sugar all recording sharp declines. Gold, a traditional hedge against the dollar, was off 4.2 percent. Silver and cocoa were the worst performers, with both raw materials down about 8 percent.
 ''A lot of commodities are keyed off of oil,'' Mr. Bentz said. ''Whether that's due to the weakness in energy or due to the strengthening of the dollar, it's hard to say.'' 
 Also on Tuesday, a bellwether report suggested that the manufacturing sector contracted slightly in August. The Institute for Supply Management, a private industry group, said that its index of manufacturing activity fell to 49.9 in August from 50 in July, in line with economists' expectations. There were several positive signals in the report: export orders rose and the cost of materials fell to a six-month low. A measure of demand also rose in August.
 ''Robust export demand has been the main support for manufacturing,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist of the research firm MFR, in a note. ''Deepening woes for the housing sector, and a desire to pare inventories will all weigh on manufacturing output, which we expect to remain weak for some time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); COAL MARKETS (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EURO (64%); BRITISH POUND (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (51%); MASSEY ENERGY CO (51%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); ANR (NYSE) (51%); FLR (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (51%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



39 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: American Filmmaker Arrested in Nigeria and Accused of Spying

BYLINE: By WILL CONNORS

DATELINE: LAGOS, Nigeria 

 BODY:
An American documentary filmmaker and his interpreter working in the volatile Delta region of Nigeria have been arrested and accused of spying, according to Nigerian government officials and media watchdog groups. 
 Andrew Berends, a New York-based freelance filmmaker and journalist who was working on a film about the oil-producing Delta region, was arrested on Sunday and held overnight. ''They didn't let me sleep or eat or drink water for the first 36 hours,'' he said Tuesday night. 
 Mr. Berends's passport and equipment were confiscated. On Monday he was released but ordered to report back to the State Security Service the next morning. On Tuesday he was again taken into custody, released and told to return the next morning. His interpreter, Samuel George, remained in custody. 
 A military spokesman, Lt. Col. Sagir Musa, confirmed that Mr. Berends had been arrested and handed over to the security service. 
 ''He had no security clearance,'' Colonel Musa said. ''It is for his own safety. If something happens to him, it's an embarrassment to the security agencies. It's not normal times in the area right now. The S.S.S. will investigate him, and once they are satisfied they will release him, God willing.''
 Mr. Berends contacted two advocacy groups, Reporters Without Borders and the Committee to Protect Journalists, and both groups condemned his detention. 
 Reporters Without Borders issued a statement that said: ''Berends was arrested just for doing his job and no other reason. It is absurd for the authorities to think that by arresting him and his interpreter, they can conceal the economic and ecological disaster unfolding in the Niger Delta.'' 
 Despite its oil riches, the Niger Delta is a desperately poor and increasingly lawless part of the country, where wealth is siphoned away by corrupt officials. Militants demand a greater share of the area's oil resources and claim to be fighting on behalf of the impoverished residents, but also appear to be engaging in many criminal and opportunistic acts of violence. Hundreds of foreign workers and wealthy Nigerians have been kidnapped for ransom, and oil theft is rampant. 
 Several other foreign journalists and filmmakers have been detained while working in the region in recent years. In April, four members of a Seattle-based film crew were arrested in the Delta and held for six days on spying charges. 
 Commenting on the arrest of Mr. Berends, Chris Alagoa of the Niger Delta Peace and Security Secretariat, a community organization, said: ''The government probably knows the fellow's real mission and that it has nothing to do with espionage, but they want to do it to discourage others from coming to report on the situation on the ground. Hounding journalists and filmmakers who want to inform the public is in bad taste.''
 While Nigeria has a significantly freer press than most African nations, gathering information in the Niger Delta is particularly difficult. 
 ''We have one of the freest presses in Africa, but there are rules,'' said Nwuke Ogbonna, information commissioner for Rivers State, which includes part of the Delta. As for Mr. Berends, he said: ''He may have engaged in actions that are not in the national interests of this country. Whether that means spying or entering off-limits areas, I can't say. It's for the security agents to determine whether this means he was spying.'' 
 Mr. Berends had visited Nigeria on several occasions and had been in the country since April on this trip. He often ventured into the creeks of the Delta to film in villages affected by oil drilling. Two weeks ago, Mr. Berends said he had nearly finished his work and was planning to return to New York this month. Mr. Berends directed the 2006 documentary ''The Blood of My Brother,'' about Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (93%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); POOR POPULATION (68%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: REPORTERS WITHOUT BORDERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) NIGERIA (95%); NIGER (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



40 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: 3 Directors Of the Fed Advocated A Rate Rise

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Directors at the Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City, Dallas and Chicago sought quarter percentage-point increases in the discount rate before an Aug. 5 policy meeting to keep inflation at bay, Fed documents released on Tuesday showed. 
 Directors at the other nine regional Fed banks all voted to hold the discount rate steady at 2.25 percent in the same period leading up to the Fed's most recent interest rate-setting meeting, according to minutes of discount rate meetings released by the Federal Reserve Board in Washington.
 The Aug. 5 meeting ended with Fed policy makers holding the benchmark overnight funds rate unchanged at 2 percent. The Fed board kept the discount rate, the rate charged to banks for direct loans from the Fed discount window, unchanged at 2.25 percent.
 The minutes of the Fed board's discount rate meetings showed that Dallas and Kansas City banks sought increases on June 26, July 10 and July 24. The Chicago Fed directors voted to hold rates steady on the first two of these dates, but shifted its stance to seek a rate increase on July 24.
 The Dallas Fed president, Richard W. Fisher, dissented in the decision to hold the federal funds rate at 2 percent because he preferred an increase. The Kansas City Fed president, Thomas M. Hoenig, is not a voting member of the policy committee this year but has consistently voiced concerns about the need to combat inflationary expectations.
 The Dallas and Kansas City Feds were the only Fed banks to seek a discount rate increase ahead of the June 24-25 Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which also left rates unchanged.
 The Chicago Fed president, Charles L. Evans, is not currently a voting member of the committee but will become one in 2009.
 Regional Fed directors recommending an increase of 25 basis points in the discount rate before the Aug. 5 meeting agreed that economic activity was soft and financial markets were not yet stabilized, but they expressed greater concerns about inflationary expectations, according to the minutes.
 ''They cited indications that higher input costs were being passed through to product prices and that inflation expectations had risen and judged that the upside risks to inflation were of greater concern than the downside risks to growth,'' the Fed said in the minutes.
 Regional Fed directors in favor of holding rates steady expressed concerns about inflation, but judged the current stance of monetary policy was appropriate, given downside risks to growth, the minutes said. ''They noted that stress in financial markets and the ongoing housing contraction were likely to damp economic growth further in the near term and saw appreciable downside risks to growth,'' the Fed said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



41 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Apple Hints At iPod News

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Apple is expected to show off its new iPod music players, and possibly announce price cuts, on Tuesday but may not release a long-awaited update to its MacBook laptop computers until a later date. 
 Apple, which also makes iPhone devices, e-mailed reporters an invitation to a Sept. 9 event titled ''Let's Rock,'' which has an image of a man jumping while listening to an iPod, with the words ''playing soon.''
 No further details were available. 
 Creating an allure for its brand has helped drive Apple's market capitalization above Google's, despite fears about the weak economy.
 An analyst at American Technology Research, Shaw Wu, said the iPod line needed to be refreshed and the price of its iPod Touch models needed to be cut because they have a higher starting price than the iPhone, which includes a cellphone and other features not included in the Touch.
 The Internet-ready iPod Touch starts at $299 in the United States, compared with $199 for the iPhone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (88%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (88%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (88%); PRICE CUTTING (88%); PRICE CHANGES (73%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (83%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



42 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: To Pry Open Tight Wallets, Two Retailers Stress Innovation

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AS summer gives way to fall, the nation's higher-end retailers, anxious about the uncertain economic outlook, are intensifying efforts to woo reluctant shoppers.
 For many years, stores that catered to more affluent consumers seemed immune to the ups and downs of the business cycle. So widely held was that belief that even mass-market retailers like Wal-Mart stepped up efforts aimed at the well-heeled, by stocking more costly merchandise and advertising in places like Vogue.
 But with the real estate market struggling and Wall Street flailing, even households in the upper brackets are trying to save rather than spend -- particularly when it comes to discretionary purchases like the clothing, home furnishings and jewelry they would normally buy at so-called better department stores. 
 To stimulate sales at an important time of the year, the Bloomingdale's division of Macy's Inc. plans to introduce this week an elaborate campaign centered on music, with partners that include Sony Music, Gibson guitars and Steinway pianos.
 And the Saks Fifth Avenue unit of Saks is expanding the availability of video clips online, at saks.com, to offer shoppers a virtual version of a catalog of fashions, cosmetics and other products.
 Although ''we're still pretty optimistic about the fall season,'' said Jack Hruska, executive vice president for creative services at Bloomingdale's in New York, ''we're in a tough economy; there's no denying that.''
 Still, those retailers ''who play up their strengths will emerge stronger when the economy comes back than those who retreat or scale back,'' Mr. Hruska added. ''We've seen that time and time again.''
 ''We're not foolish; we don't invest unwisely,'' he said, adding: ''Our customer has always expected something interesting, a more active environment, from Bloomingdale's than other retailers. We have to continue to give the customer good reasons, interesting reasons, to come visit us.''
 At Saks, said Denise Incandela, president of the Saks Direct unit in New York, ''we were very excited'' with the results of an experiment with a virtual catalog in the spring. Among the highlights was selling out 25 percent of the featured merchandise.
 ''We're looking for anything that's going to move the needle,'' Ms. Incandela said, ''driving outsized growth with innovative initiatives.'' The fall version of the Saks virtual catalog is scheduled to be available on Wednesday. The video clips present apparel and shoes from designers like Stacey Bendet, Christian Dior, Salvatore Ferragamo, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Zac Posen, Brian Reyes and Donatella Versace. 
 There is also advice on hair care, from Frederic Fekkai; makeup, from Bobbi Brown; and fragrances, from Jo Malone. Video catalogs are ''closer to simulating the in-store environment'' than their paper counterparts, Ms. Incandela said.
 ''For luxury goods, there's an expectation of a higher level of service,'' she added. ''This is a way we're trying to accommodate that.''
 As for the age profile of online shoppers compared with their in-store counterparts, ''our customer is a little bit older,'' Ms. Incandela acknowledged, ''but we have a younger customer we want to reach out to.''
 Other such attempts to appeal to youthful shoppers include ''an outreach campaign to almost 100 blogs,'' she added, and a presence on social media sites like Facebook.
 Any sales attributable to the virtual catalog, from customers of whatever age, would be welcomed by Saks, which last month reported more red ink for its second quarter. Its net loss rose to $31.7 million, from a net loss of $24.6 million in the comparable quarter the previous year. Revenue fell, to $669.2 million from $694.1 million, and a widely followed measure of retail health, known as same-store sales, fell too, by 4 percent. 
 At Macy's Inc., there was black ink in the second quarter, the company reported last month, but less than the same quarter a year ago ($73 million compared with $74 million). Revenue declined, to $5.7 billion from $5.9 billion, and same-store sales declined as well, by 2.1 percent.
 At both Saks Direct and Bloomingdale's, plans for the fall campaigns predate the current economic conditions. At Bloomingdale's, Mr. Hruska said, the development of the music campaign began not long after the completion last fall of a campaign that was focused on art.
 The music campaign includes print advertisements, e-mail messages, catalogs, the bloomingdales.com Web site, shopping bags and window displays. There will be live performances by musicians and bands in stores. And Bloomingdale's will sell CDs and DVDs by artists who are distributed by the Sony Music Label Group division of Sony BMG Music Entertainment.
 An inspiration for the music campaign, Mr. Hruska said, was the recent fashion trend for clothing inspired by rock 'n' roll like ''rocker T-shirts, skinny pants, leather and siren skirts.'' But many other musical genres will also be part of the campaign, among them jazz, show tunes, pop and classical.
 For example, among the artists whose music will be sold by Bloomingdale's will be Joshua Bell, Teddy Geiger, Wyclef Jean and Cyndi Lauper. 
 There are also plans for music to be an integral part of the Bloomingdale's Christmas campaign, which is scheduled to start Nov. 20.
 Partners for the fall campaign include, in addition to Sony Music and the instrument makers, the Infiniti division of the Nissan Motor Company. For instance, Bloomingdale's will offer customers a chance to win a 2009 Infiniti FX50 that is already equipped with 1,000 songs from the Sony Music library.
 ''We are looking for ways that are nontraditional to reach the hearts and minds of our customers,'' said Ben Poore, vice president for marketing at Infiniti in Franklin, Tenn.
 ''There's a really good fit between Bloomingdale's and us, starting with the customer base,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bloomingdale's fall advertising campaign has a music theme
in addition to the typical print ads and catalogs the effort will include live performances by musicians and bands in stores.
 At saks.com, online shoppers can watch a video version of the Saks catalog of cosmetics, fashions and other products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); COSMETICS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (67%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (91%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (56%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%); SALVATORE FERRAGAMO ITALIA SPA (50%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%); CDI (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (56%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (56%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (50%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (55%); DONATELLA VERSACE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



43 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: A Slow Food Festival Reaches Out to the Uncommitted

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE MUHLKE

DATELINE: San Francisco 

 BODY:
 NEXT stop, the White House lawn? If Alice Waters has her way, a Victory Garden, like the quarter-acre plot at City Hall that was the leafy, heirloom heart of the Slow Food Nation gathering here last weekend, will feed policymakers in Washington. 
 Considering that it took just over a year to put together this celebration of American food after it was proposed by Ms. Waters, founder of the restaurant Chez Panisse, the presidential chef should look into chard recipes soon. 
 The writer and Slow Food fan Michael Pollan had said the event would be a coming-out party for Slow Food U.S.A., a 10-year-old group that links the pleasures of food with community and environmental activism, but has not generated as much enthusiasm as its parent organization has internationally. 
 The weekend mainly proved him right. Over four days, more than 60,000 people tasted ''good, clean, fair'' food and wine at the Civic Center Plaza and at the Fort Mason Center, attended panel discussions on ''edible education'' and the world food crisis, watched movies, listened to musicians ranging from Gnarls Barkley to a band of Hmong farmers, signed the Declaration for Healthy Food and Agriculture, watched chefs like David Chang and Charlie Trotter prepare regional dishes, swapped seeds and ate lots of heritage pork. 
 According to Anya Fernald, executive director of Slow Food Nation, a subsidiary of Slow Food U.S.A., 98 percent of the events sold out, and 20 percent of attendees were from outside of California. 
 The event's slogan, ''Come to the Table,'' seemed redundant in a city that is already seated. The marketplace had a fraction of the vendors of the popular Ferry Plaza Farmers Market, and each was asked to highlight only one item, such as elephant heart plums from Blossom Bluff Orchards or goat's milk caramel from Bodega & Yerba Santa. But by Sunday morning, 30,000 paper bags donated for purchases had been used, 4,000 heritage pork sandwiches had been sold and Organic Pastures Dairy had given out 9,000 samples. 
 ''Farmers were thanking us for helping them get out of debt,'' Ms. Fernald said. ''They want us to do it twice a year,'' she added with a tired laugh. 
 Many of the people filling their canvas bags and biodegradable plates at the Civic Center were of a demographic that was probably familiar with Slow Food. But the crowd was more racially and socially diverse than the Ferry Plaza clientele, thanks to the event's proximity to low-income neighborhoods. 
 Families explored the garden, while teenagers sprawled on the lawn, drinking $2.50 watermelon agua fresca from the Slow on the Go food stalls, next to middle-aged people excited that the Southern chef Scott Peacock had actually made the biscuit (and the butter, and the jam) in their $7 ham biscuit. 
 The Taste Pavilion at the Fort Mason Center was intentionally exclusive. (Proceeds from its tickets, which sold out at $45 to $65, covered the cost of free events at the Civic Center.) Each of the 15 sleek, sustainably designed food pavilions offered samples of Slow Food-selected items, from New Mexican buffalo jerky to coffee-infused honey from Mockingbird Meadows in Ohio; bean-to-bar chocolate from Steve DeVries in Colorado to a sustainable wine bar with 450 wines from 40 states. The scene was cheerful chaos, as people scrambled for tastes of charcuterie, hot bread, ice cream, chocolate, cocktails and raw-milk cheese. The microbrew area was thoughtfully placed outdoors to allow for macro lines.
 The bands that played at Fort Mason were popular, but the weekend's real stars were on stage across town at the Herbst Theater. The sold-out Food for Thought series there assembled speakers like the Sierra Club's executive director, Carl Pope, and the physicist and environmental activist Vandana Shiva on such topics as ''Building a New Food System: Policy and Planning'' and ''Climate Change and Food.'' If the events at the Civic Center and at Fort Mason were the Woodstock of food, these panels were the Davos. Topics included social justice, biodiversity, the elimination of subsidies, and the role of agriculture in the current economic, climate and health problems. Words like ''Monsanto'' evoked hisses from the audience; ''land reform'' drew whoops.
 Asked if he thought the weekend had helped the criticism of elitism, Raj Patel, author of ''Stuffed and Starved,'' about the world food situation, said he was impressed by the group's willingness to address those issues. But Mr. Patel, a panelist on the world food crisis, added, ''I don't think they're there yet.'' Among his concerns, he said, were the lack of discussions about workers in the meatpacking industry and in the fields. 
 The talks culminated in the three-hour Slow Food Nation panel, which brought together the reclusive writer Wendell Berry, who is credited with sparking the agricultural discussion in America; Ms. Waters; Mr. Pollan; Dr. Shiva; Corby Kummer, a food columnist and author of ''The Pleasures of Slow Food''; Eric Schlosser, author of ''Fast Food Nation''; and Carlo Petrini, who founded Slow Food in Italy in 1989. 
 By the end, the teary-eyed audience was on its feet, ready to take the discussion out of the farmers' market and straight to Washington. 
 But whether Slow Food Nation turns out to be an end-of-summer fling or a real relationship remains to be seen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO ZOOMING: Volunteers poured samples of olive oil for tasting, above, at the Slow Food Nation gathering in San Francisco, where large crowds visited a farmers' market and attended panel discussions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, SCOTT CHERNIS
 BELOW, ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); GARDENING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); PORK (77%); FAMILY (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (68%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



44 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1872 words

HEADLINE: As Belts Tighten, Lobsters Shrink and Bar Menus Grow

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
THE 7:30 dinner reservation that you're always trying and failing to get will become easier pickings this fall, but it may also become a con of a sort. Restaurateurs, like airlines, are overbooking. They can't afford to lose revenue to no-shows, not in an economy like this.
 You'll notice more special deals, more value meals: happy-hour snacks for under $4; late-night nibbles for less; Sunday promotions; lunchtime bargains.
 You'll see hanger steaks where strip steaks were once ascendant, dwarf lobsters where steroidal crustaceans once reigned. Luxury items will be scarcer, low-ticket options more ubiquitous. 
 You'll notice more comfort food and more straightforward food, as many restaurateurs defer to what diners are guaranteed to order, rather than what chefs are flattered to concoct. 
 And you'll hear the accents and see the stamp of foreigners, who are claiming an ever greater percentage of restaurant seats, their currencies more valuable than ours.
 ''On Tuesday a year ago the dining room would be full around 7,'' said Robert Bohr, the wine director at the Greenwich Village restaurant Cru. ''Now the dining room is full at 8:30 or 9.'' That's when Europeans prefer to dine, and up to 40 percent of Cru's diners on a given night are foreigners, he said.
 In 2004, when Cru opened, as few as 15 percent were. ''The whole dining atmosphere has changed,'' Mr. Bohr said. In light of that, the restaurant the Modern, in Midtown, began printing prices on its wine list in Euros as well as in dollars this year so tourists did not have to do their own arithmetic to appreciate how good they have it.
 As the New York restaurant world enters a characteristically busy fall season, what's most striking aren't the flashy openings -- in New York there's always plenty of flash and there remains a good deal of cash -- but the strategic adjustments being made by restaurants that aren't taking their success, or for that matter their survival, for granted.
 Make no mistake: Per Se will still be Per Se. Babbo and Balthazar will remain mobbed. And even most of the less vaunted and less wildly popular restaurants out there should muddle along fine for now. Restaurateurs in New York say that they haven't been hit nearly as hard as their peers in other cities.
 Moreover, an economic slowdown and a weak dollar have not prevented prominent restaurateurs like Drew Nieporent and prominent chefs like David Bouley from forging ahead with ambitious projects, some hatched before times got tougher.
 But in this season's crop of new restaurants, as in the changes made by old ones, it's clear that it's no longer business as usual.
 ''I wouldn't be surprised if you saw some places charging you if you went beyond a certain number of bread courses,'' said Julie Taras Wallach, an owner of the Lower East Side restaurant Little Giant, referring acerbically to diners who camp out at tables, trying to get as much for as little as possible. She said she is more conscious than ever of the need to turn tables.
 Fuel prices have gone up. Food prices have gone up. But since diners are feeling financially strapped, too, the restaurants can't pass on those increased costs simply by raising menu prices.
 So they're deploying other strategies.
 ''Instead of using morel mushrooms I'll use shiitake,'' said Ralf Kuettel, the chef and owner of Trestle on Tenth, in Chelsea. Most of Trestle on Tenth's entrees are under $25.
 To keep prices down, Mr. Kuettel is improvising. ''For example,'' he said, ''the chilled tomato soup with crab meat: I'm not getting jumbo lump crab meat. I'm getting lump crab meat.'' It's half the cost, he said, so he doesn't have to raise what he charges for the appetizer at dinner -- it's $9.25.
 He said that the average check per diner on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights has declined to $45 from about $55 a year ago. Diners are forgoing bottled water and monitoring the amount, and expense, of the wine they drink.
 Other restaurants are trying harder than ever to cast themselves as inexpensive, to put anxious diners at ease. That's partly what all those menus that divide appetizers into categories -- cured meats here, composed dishes there, finger foods over there -- are about. A profusion of items with modest digits attached to them lures diners into the menu, reassuring them that they can navigate it without going broke.
 In July the elegant Italian restaurant L'Impero became the slightly less elegant Italian restaurant Convivio -- note the name change, which emphasizes casual warmth over imperial grandiosity -- and unveiled a menu with a category for snacks from $4 to $6 like rice balls and marinated olives. On top of which, Convivio's four-course prix fixe, at $59, is $5 less than L'Impero's was.
 While some diners continue to splurge, others are no longer able to, or newly wary. 
 ''We used to run a three- to five-pound lobster special,'' said Peter Glazier, the principal owner of the Strip House and Michael Jordan's The Steak House N.Y.C. He was referring to both of those restaurants, where the lobsters were $29 a pound.
 They still are. But about a month ago, he said, ''we went to a two- to three-pound lobster special'' because fewer diners wanted to pay $116 for a lobster, which was what a four-pound one cost.
 Strip House is a small chain with establishments in several cities other than New York, and in those cities it recently instituted, for the first time, a bar menu with a hamburger, a steak sandwich, a shrimp cocktail and other less expensive items. He said that doing it in New York isn't out of the question.
 Bar menus around the city are growing longer as more diners move away from properly set tables and conventional meals with higher checks.
 Some chefs are turning their attention toward more casual restaurants with heartier, more filling fare. Early this year Michael Psilakis followed up his haute Greek restaurant Anthos, in Midtown, with the less expensive Italian restaurant Mia Dona on the East Side. This fall, on the Upper West Side, he and his business partner, the restaurateur Donatella Arpaia, are expected to open a relocated and much larger version of Kefi, a casual Greek restaurant whose entrees average $15.
 Mia Dona does delivery, and so will Kefi, because it wrings more revenue from the kitchens' efforts. ''Volume cures a lot,'' Ms. Arpaia said. ''You've got to take everything you can.''
 Many restaurants are trying to sate diners and give them a sense of plenty for the lowest price possible.
 ''You have to be smart as a restaurateur and a chef and say, what's the most value I can put on this plate so it looks like a lot of food and still appears to be a value and doesn't anger anyone?'' Ms. Taras Wallach of Little Giant said.
 ''I serve a lot of grits,'' she added.
 And many restaurants are trying harder than ever not to let any seats go to waste. Ms. Arpaia said that at Mia Dona she is accepting more reservations between 7 and 9 p.m. rather than steering diners toward early and late times that they might reject. Even if this means lengthening diners' waits for reserved tables, she, like other restaurateurs, wants to make sure that no-shows don't cost the restaurant money.
 ''I'd rather have people wait at the bar and buy them a free drink than not get them in the door,'' she said, adding that she knows of other restaurants acting in a similar, extra-cautious fashion.
 Restaurant blogs are atwitter with more reports of places trying to bully diners into keeping their commitments to reservations by asking for credit card numbers for tables for five or more. The creditcard number gives the restaurant the option -- seldom exercised -- of charging a no-show fee.
 The restaurant Allen & Delancey, on the Lower East Side, asks for a credit card number even when someone makes a reservation for four.
 The policy is a psychological tactic, said a manager there, used to keep diners to their promises.
 And restaurants are being more aggressive about promotions that attract diners on days and at hours when the restaurants aren't typically full.
 Starting Monday, Hundred Acres, in SoHo, will offer a happy-hour special, from 5 to 7 p.m., of $2 organic corn dogs and $3 ice cream floats at the bar. 
 Several months ago, Eighty One, on the Upper West Side, began offering a prix fixe of $42 for any two courses ordered from 5:15 to 6:15 p.m. Monday through Saturday and all night Sunday. The restaurant Vento, in the meatpacking district, recently unveiled a Sunday night special of a pizza or a pasta and a glass of wine or beer for $12.95.
 ''When there's an economic downturn, everybody gets more creative with everything they do,'' said Donna Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for B. R. Guest Restaurants, which owns Vento. At the company's seafood restaurants in Manhattan, including Atlantic Grill and Blue Water Grill, individual oysters, clams and shrimp are $1.25 apiece at the bar from 10 p.m. on. Earlier in the evening those items are $2.25 or more.
 Eleven Madison Park, in the Flatiron district, has a new $38 prix fixe lunch, and its servers, like those at other restaurants in Danny Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group, are taking greater pains to spotlight affordable wines within diners' narrowly circumscribed comfort zones. 
 ''All of our wine directors are starting to play this game more aggressively,'' said Paul Bolles-Beaven, one of Mr. Meyer's business partners. ''People are spending less on wine right now, and they're not spending to impress.''
 Unless, that is, they're European.
 ''You should see, when they come in the door, the shopping bags they hand off to the coat check,'' said Graceanne Jordan, the general manager at the Modern, which is part of the Union Square group and is near the shopping corridors of Madison and Fifth Avenues.
 ''I mean, they're just spending. It's Monopoly money to them.''
 And they've helped protect some of Manhattan's most upscale restaurants from economic repercussions, especially because they're more likely, managers said, to order extensive tasting menus and multiple bottles of wine.
 But their prominence in dining rooms could create problems for restaurateurs and foster new policies that would affect all diners. Some Europeans tip less than 15 to 20 percent of the bill. One restaurateur, who asked not to be identified for fear of offending his staff or clients, said that servers in his employ have begun to agitate for mandatory tips.
 Another restaurateur, Joseph Bastianich, whose restaurants include Del Posto and Esca, said, ''It's a tricky thing.'' He added that if the problem worsened, ''you'd have to do something.''
 Meanwhile he and others in the restaurant business are keeping an especially careful watch for inspectors for the Michelin Guide, trusted by Europeans and more important to New York restaurants now than when it started rating restaurants here three years ago. They're sweet-talking concierges, since so many diners are coming from hotels.
 If you really want to be sure of that 7:30 p.m. table, ask for it with a French, Spanish or Italian accent. It will brand you as a potentially bigger spender, the kind helping New York's restaurants outlast a weak dollar and a wobbly Dow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ADAPTING: Europeans fill the seats, smaller lobsters are offered at Peter Glazier's Strip House, pasta is a special on Sunday at Vento and oysters are cheaper late at night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BEEF (75%); CRUSTACEANS (75%); US DOLLAR (72%); LUXURY GOODS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



45 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Abu Dhabi Puts More Cash On the Line in Hollywood

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Last September, Abu Dhabi Media Company, an arm of the government in the city-state capitol of the United Arab Emirates, reached a $1 billion deal to make movies and video games with Warner Brothers, the big Hollywood studio owned by Time Warner.
 A year later, the two partners have announced just one movie: ''Shorts,'' a family-friendly adventure film by the director Robert Rodriguez and starring William H. Macy. 
 But that has not stopped Abu Dhabi Media, flush with oil cash, from spreading even more money around the movie business.
 The company, which was created last year by the government of Abu Dhabi, is starting a new subsidiary that will spend about $1 billion more over the next five years making feature-length films in partnership with three American producers, said Edward Borgerding, the chief executive of Abu Dhabi Media Company.
 At the same time, the new company, called Imagenation Abu Dhabi, will manage Abu Dhabi Media's side of the partnership with Warner Brothers. In addition to movies, Imagenation will also create shows and short films for the Internet. 
 ''We certainly want to be in that business and see how it works and take advantage of how the media world is evolving,'' said Mr. Borgerding, who added that the company would announce its American partners during the Toronto Film Festival, which will run Thursday through Sept. 13. ''There's a lot of creative destruction going on.''
 The deal, to be announced Wednesday, comes amid a flurry of partnerships being created between Hollywood studios and outfits in Abu Dhabi and Dubai in the U.A.E. But many of those have been aimed at creating studios, theme parks and multiplexes in the U.A.E., and in supporting Arab filmmakers.
 Direct investment in films is a little trickier: Abu Dhabi Media is controlled by the government, and media companies in the United States do not like to be seen making such deals. The new name, Imagenation Abu Dhabi, gives Warner and other film companies a more politically palatable name to put on promotional materials for jointly financed movies. 
 Each of the three American production partners will open offices in Abu Dhabi, Mr. Borgerding said. While the focus will be on producing Hollywood-type films for English-speaking audiences, Mr. Borgerding said the company also would like to cater to the Arabic-language audience by making movies with Arab stars and Middle Eastern filmmakers.
 ''We're not just writing the checks,'' Mr. Borgerding said of his partners. ''These are people who will be matching us dollar for dollar.''
 While Hollywood was awash in hedge fund and private equity money a few years ago -- both MGM and the Weinstein Company, the film company started by the brothers Bob and Harvey Weinstein, were recipients of private money -- that flow of Wall Street cash has since slowed, though it has not stopped.
 Some hedge funds that invested in slates of films found themselves stung when movies flopped at the box office. Other funds have been hurt by the credit crisis.
 But entertainment executives, by and large, do not consider money from the oil-rich Middle East as a replacement for slowing hedge fund dollars. Because of cultural and religious issues, financing from the Middle East, especially those from a government used to controlling the media, is unlikely to come without restrictions. 
 In a statement, Mohamed Khalaf al-Mazrouei, the chairman of the Abu Dhabi Media Company and director general of the Abu Dhabi Authority of Culture and Heritage, a government agency, said: ''Abu Dhabi has established itself as a major player in the global economy, as evidenced through recent activity in the energy, real estate and transportation sectors. Media is no different, and Abu Dhabi Media Company is fulfilling its ambition to become a global player in the media industry.''
 Abu Dhabi is also becoming a cultural and media center in the region. Last year, Abu Dhabi Media started The National, an English-language broadsheet newspaper in Abu Dhabi edited by a former editor of The Daily Telegraph in Britain. The government has also enticed the Louvre and Guggenheim museums to establish outposts there.
 So why is now a good time to pump money into Hollywood? 
 ''Primarily because you are kind of buying in at the bottom of the cycle,'' Mr. Borgerding said. ''The subprime thing hit a lot of those hedge funds. There was a glut of films because a lot of money was chasing a finite amount of creative talent and good stories.''
 Mr. Borgerding, who grew up in Cleveland and now divides his time between Abu Dhabi, London and Los Angeles, said Imagenation would make six to eight movies a year, with budgets of $10 million to $50 million a film. 
 ''We're not going to be making the Hollywood blockbuster type,'' he said, which typically can have budgets of more than $100 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edward Borgerding, chief executive of Abu Dhabi Media.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP CHEUNG/ABU DHABI MEDIA COMPANY)
In September 2007, Abu Dhabi invested $1 billion in a partnership. From left, Ahmed Ali al-Sayegh, chairman of Aldar, one of the investors
Barry Meyer, chairman of Warner Brothers
 and Riyad al-Mubarak, then chief executive of Abu Dhabi Media.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); FESTIVALS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%); ABU DHABI MEDIA CO PJSC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: BOB WEINSTEIN (57%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



46 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Wage Gaps For Women Frustrating Germany

BYLINE: By SARAH PLASS

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Maria Schaad, an ambitious 41-year-old businesswoman, considers herself lucky. After the birth of each of her sons, now 7 and 3, her employer, a major pharmaceutical company, allowed her to work flexible, reduced hours -- a perk that is far from a given in Germany.
 But her luck extended only so far: though Ms. Schaad had once set her sights on a position in management, her career stagnated after she started a family, she said, even though she had earned an M.B.A. after she became a mother.
 ''At some point, women have to make a decision,'' she said matter-of-factly. ''Having children means you have to make compromises'' at work. 
 Millions of working mothers -- and sometimes fathers -- have to make often difficult trade-offs when it comes to work and family, but labor experts say the calculus is especially harsh in Germany, a country that despite having a woman chancellor and sitting at the center of supposedly liberal Europe, has one of the widest gender wage gaps on the Continent. 
 It is just one of the disparities between working men and women, especially mothers, that government and union leaders say is creating a drag on female participation in the work force and, consequently, on economic growth, at a time when Germany may be teetering on the edge of recession. And they point to a range of societal and governmental barriers that are hindering change. 
 Ingrid Sehrbrock, deputy chairwoman of the German Federation of Trade Unions, calls German pay inequity a ''scandal.'' Europe's commissioner for employment and social affairs, Vladimir Spidla, recently called on German employers ''to really apply the principle of equal pay for equal work.''
 A clutch of new data suggests that Germany is going in the opposite direction. While the wage gap between women and men is narrowing across the European Union and in the United States, it is stagnant in Germany. 
 Since 2000, German working women on average have gone from earning 26 percent less than men to making 24 percent less than men in 2006, the last year for which statistics are available, according to data provided by the government statistics bureau, Destatis. 
 It is one of the largest gender gaps in the European Union. Only Cyprus, Estonia and Slovakia have equal or greater gaps, according to a study by the European statistics service, Eurostat. 
 Across the Continent, women on average made 15.9 percent less than men in 2007. That gap has narrowed each year since 2001, when women made 20.4 percent less than men, according to a report released last week by the European Union foundation that has studied the trend for years.
 Comparing statistics with those of the United States can be difficult, since Europeans tend to count part-time and full-time workers, while the United States statistics most closely watched count only full-time workers. Women are more likely to work part time, which depresses their average wage and increases the gender gap when both full- and part-time workers are considered. 
 Still, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday that in 2007 American women working full time made 22 percent less than men working full time. It is the closest American women have ever come to income parity, a percentage point closer than in 2006. Since 2001, the number has bounced between 23 percent and 24.5 percent. 
 There are many reasons that Germany has continually been in the European cellar. Outright gender discrimination is one, researchers say. Maternity leave is another: men get promoted while their female colleagues take time off to have children. 
 ''The dilemma is that while 50 percent of the junior employees are female, they pretty much disappear on their way to middle management,'' said Heiner Thorborg, a human resources consultant in Frankfurt and a vocal critic of gender inequality. The income gap is smaller for younger women who have not had children. It is greatest in western Germany, largely because the average hourly wage for men in this part of the country is almost 50 percent more than for men in the former East Germany. 
 Some human resources experts even point to less aggressive salary negotiations by women. (Coaching programs aimed at women have mushroomed over the last decade.)
 But there are also societal and policy pressures. For example, mothers who work are sometimes derided as Rabenmutter, or ''raven mothers.'' The phrase -- based on the erroneous belief that ravens fly away, leaving their nests behind -- refers to women who pursue careers instead of being homemakers. It is more common in the west than in the east of the country.
 On the policy front, Germany has some of Europe's least generous supports for working parents. Just 9 percent of children age 3 or younger have access to day care, compared with an average of 23 percent in advanced countries. In northern European countries, the numbers are even higher: 40 to 60 percent.
 East Germany still benefits from a wider network of child care operations -- a legacy of the Communist era, when female participation in the work force was among the highest in the world and day care was vital.
 The minister for family affairs, Ursula von der Leyen, recently introduced a plan to help finance private child care and increase the availability of kindergarten spots. The Parliament is expected to approve it by the end of the year.
 Officials in Berlin have also tried to make having children more attractive. In 2007, the government introduced Elterngeld, or parents' money, a benefit intended to encourage fathers and mothers to take time off after the birth of a child. Almost 20 percent of new fathers have applied for the benefit so far this year.
 Meanwhile, some 60 percent of married couples with children younger than 3 follow the same pattern: fathers keep working full time, while mothers stay at home. 
 The difficulty for many women in working and rearing children is partly responsible for Germany having one of Europe's lowest fertility rates: 1.37 children per woman, researchers say. It does not help that women in child-bearing years are still often asked in job interviews if they plan to have children -- a question that is against the law.
 Silke Strauss said she could not have attained her present position had she decided to have children. She was just named managing partner of a management consulting firm, and is the only female partner among eight men. ''It would simply not work with children, not with the amount of flexibility that is expected,'' said Ms. Strauss, 42.
 For some women, time spent abroad makes a critical difference, showing them that life can be different. 
 Jutta Allmendinger, the first female president of the Social Science Research Center in Berlin and the mother of a 14-year-old son, earned a Ph.D. at Harvard. While there, Ms. Allmendinger said, she saw the ''idols of her youth'' -- female colleagues who taught while being pregnant and went back to work soon after giving birth, while still nursing their children.
 Back in Germany in 1993, she became pregnant while teaching sociology in Munich. Some of her colleagues, unable to imagine she would consider having a baby, thought she had just overeaten during the summer. ''It was impossible for some people that women in certain positions would actually have children,'' said Ms. Allmendinger, 51, laughing.
 Those lucky enough to find a kindergarten or nursery school face yet another obstacle: many end the day at 3 p.m. or 4 p.m. -- not very convenient for working mothers. That is one reason every third woman in Germany with a job works part time, the ultimate career killer, in the view of many human resources experts. Among Europeans, only women in the Netherlands have a higher share of part-time work. 
 About 61.4 percent of American working women worked full time and year-round in 2007, a record high -- up from 60.6 percent in 2006, according to the census. 
 In a just-completed study, Ms. Allmendinger found that young women -- and their male peers -- want both a career and children.
 Ms. Schaad, the pharmaceutical company employee, said those young women had better hurry. In business, she said, ''Realistically, a woman who has not made it by 40 has no chance to make it at all.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maria Schaad, working in her home office in Germany, says her career stagnated after she started a family. ''Having children means you have to make compromises'' at work, she said.(PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE AND BELOW LEFT BY ROLF OESER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Silke Strauss, left, was just named managing partner of a management consulting firm. Jutta Allmendinger, right, is the first female president of the Social Science Research Center in Berlin.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AUSSERHOFER)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENDER EQUALITY (90%); WOMEN (90%); EQUAL PAY (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STATISTICS (88%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (87%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MEN (78%); FAMILY (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CYPRUS (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



47 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Big Stores in Odd Shapes Arriving in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
Squeezing a large urban retail center onto a small, oddly shaped building site is almost never easy in New York, and the task can become particularly daunting when a prominent national retailer decides to make the center a home for its largest store anywhere. 
 Such were the hurdles that had to be cleared at the 300,000-square-foot Triangle Junction in the Flatbush section of central Brooklyn. 
 Triangle Equities, a developer based in Whitestone, Queens, began working with New York City eight years ago to rejuvenate an anemic mix of mostly small retailers at Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, one of Brooklyn's busiest hubs. 
 At first, Triangle planned to create a large shopping center at the intersection, with Kmart as the anchor. After that company filed for bankruptcy protection in 2002, it scrambled to find another tenant. Last April, the center's first store finally opened: a two-level Target, which at 225,000 square feet is the discount retailer's largest ever. 
 Target, which is based in Minneapolis, occupies the top two levels of the three-story center, which last week received yet another national retailer on its ground floor: a 20,000-square-foot Circuit City.
 According to Peter Botsaris of the Botsaris Realty Group in Manhattan, the leasing broker, tenants that have already signed on include a large David's Bridal store; a Children's Place; a Payless ShoeSource, which is owned by Collective Brands; and an Applebee's restaurant, owned by IHOP. Two ground-floor spaces have yet to be leased, he said.
 National retailers have already flocked to other parts of Brooklyn, including the part of lengthy Flatbush Avenue that passes through downtown Brooklyn. But local real estate brokers say that until about two years ago, when it became clear that Target was really going to open a large store at the point where Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues intersect with Avenue H, they were generally reluctant to enter this area. This was the case even though it had heavy foot traffic (partly because of nearby Brooklyn College), was home to one of the busiest subway stops in Brooklyn and also was a stopover for a half-dozen bus lines. 
 One of the biggest obstacles that Triangle Equities faced in creating the Junction was the site itself, which formerly had two parking lots, a car wash and an open portion of the Long Island Rail Road bordered by two bridge abutments.
 Because a third of the Junction was to sit in air space over the railroad, structural engineers working for Triangle Equities first had to design a special platform that would serve as a base for a retail center. The company also needed to build a wide pedestrian sidewalk to seamlessly connect the center to two narrow bridge abutments on the north and south sides of the center.
 Meanwhile, the project's architect, the New York office of Cooper Carry, a group based in Atlanta, designed the center so that instead of looking like a very large single building -- which local community groups strongly opposed -- it would actually look like six smaller separate buildings, to more closely resemble other low-lying retail buildings in the area. 
 All this was not inexpensive. When Triangle Equities bought the site for the center from the New York City Economic Development Corporation in 2004, the project was expected to cost about $70 million. Costs are now expected to add up to about $150 million.
 Target also had design challenges. The retailer had already shown that it was adept at building large, vertically oriented urban stores elsewhere, including at the Atlantic Terminal mall in downtown Brooklyn. But here the company had to take a standard rectangular-shaped store format and fit it onto a relatively small building site of irregular shape. 
 ''It was like taking a rectangular-shaped peg and fitting it into a trapezoid-shaped hole,'' said Ben Wauford, a principal at Cooper Carry's New York office.
 Mr. Wauford said that Cooper Carry skewed the layout of the floors slightly and then designed the rest of the building so Target could use leftover space for storage and a street-level entrance lobby. The company also gave the center many elevators -- 12 in all -- so the upper-level store could be easily reached from the street as well as from an adjacent 500-car covered garage. 
 ''This was the most complex construction project that Target has ever taken on,'' said Bridget Hammond, a spokeswoman for the company, which as of July had 1,648 stores.
 She said her company decided to install an unusually large store at the Flatbush-Nostrand intersection because the area was so heavily trafficked. 
 Many of the retail properties around the intersection sit on relatively small lots, so it is not clear how many other large national retailers will be able to come to the area soon.
 Real estate brokers agree that the asking rents for ground-floor retail space within a two-block radius of the intersection have doubled, or in some cases tripled, over the last two years, to about $100 a square foot annually. 
 Some established property owners in the area say they are already considering renovating their properties to make them more appealing to retailers looking for larger spaces. 
 One of those owners is Stanley Liker, who, along with a group of investors, has owned for 20 years a 20,000-square-foot building across the street from the Junction, a building that used to be the old College Theater. ''This is an area that used to be completely dead,'' Mr. Liker said last week. 
 For now, retail space in the area is tight. ''It's one of the tightest retail corridors in Brooklyn right now, and availability is scarce,'' said Zach Mishaan, a senior managing director at the Winick Realty Group in Manhattan.
 Timothy King, the founder of CPEX Real Estate in Brooklyn, says he thinks the combination of so-called destination retailers at Triangle Junction, as well as its very large parking garage -- a rarity in Brooklyn -- will be a strong draw for shoppers outside the immediate area. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Nostrand and Flatbush Avenues, several stores will make up a vertical mall. Besides Target and Circuit City, David's Bridal, the Children's Place and Payless ShoeSource will also be coming.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); BRIDAL SHOPS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); LEASING INDUSTRY (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (54%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (85%); COLLECTIVE BRANDS INC (54%); PAYLESS SHOESOURCE INC (54%); DAVID'S BRIDAL INC (54%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (54%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



48 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 412 words

 BODY:
NO PRICE ROLLBACK Oil prices are falling, but manufacturers are not pulling back on price increases they made this year on products with ingredients derived from oil. 
 A NEW PLATFORM Sharpening its intense competition with Microsoft, Google introduced a stripped-down Web browser called Chrome that is largely aimed at strengthening its ability to deliver sophisticated software applications over the Web. [C1.] 
 Chrome is full of really smart features that seem to have been inspired by other browsers -- or ripped off from them. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 FINANCING MOVIES The government of Abu Dhabi is creating a media company that will invest about $1 billion in feature-length films in partnership with three American producers. [C1.]
 PAY INEQUITY Germany has one of the widest gender wage gaps on the Continent, which some say is creating a drag on female participation in the work force and on economic growth. [C1.]
 ECONOMIC WOES The nation's manufacturing slowed in August, while construction spending took a tumble in July that was bigger than expected. [C2.]
 MINIMIZING GOUT Regeneron Pharmaceuticals is expected to announce that a drug it is developing reduced the recurrence of gout in a clinical trial. [C3.]
 MOVING FORWARD Ben Verwaayen, named as chief executive of Alcatel-Lucent, the supplier of phone equipment, vowed to deliver on the merger of the troubled company. [C3.]
 WOOING SHOPPERS To stimulate sales, Bloomingdale's and Saks Fifth Avenue are creating innovative marketing campaigns. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]
 FILLING THE TROPHY CUPBOARD Abu Dhabi's ruling family bought the English soccer club Manchester City, and hours later the team signed Robinho, left, a Brazilian world star from Real Madrid, for 32.5 million pounds ($58.6 million). [C4.]
 FACE-LIFT Owners of older office buildings are striving to provide improved energy efficiency and a better appearance be renovating the buildings' facades. [C7.]
 SQUEEZING IN The two-level Target in the oddly shaped Triangle Junction, a shopping center at one of Brooklyn's busiest hubs, will get a neighbor: a 20,000-square-foot Circuit City. [C8.]
 EYE ON INFLATION The minutes of the Aug. 5 meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers show three directors sought to increase the discount lending rate. [C8.]
 A CRUCIAL VOTE Machinists at the Boeing Company will vote to decide whether to accept a proposed contract or follow their union leaders and go on strike. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FILM (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EQUAL PAY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); CLINICAL TRIALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); STRIKES (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (68%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); GOUT (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (65%); SOCCER (64%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (67%); BOEING CO (62%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (67%); ALU (NYSE) (67%); ALU (BIT) (67%); BOE (LSE) (62%); BAB (BRU) (62%); BA (NYSE) (62%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (67%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (62%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: BEN VERWAAYEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



49 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 541 words

PERSON: Calvin L. Beale 

HEADLINE: Calvin L. Beale, Demographer With a Feel for Rural America, Dies at 85

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Calvin L. Beale, a government demographer who was among the first to recognize the transformation of America's rural landscape from farms to a mixture of farms, industry and vacation homes, died on Monday in Washington. He was 85. 
 A niece, Carol Rudolph, said the cause was colon cancer.
 Mr. Beale had worked at the federal Agriculture Department for more than half a century, becoming a senior demographer there.
 An unpretentious man in a profession not noted for its glamour, Mr. Beale -- his highest academic degree was a master's in sociology from the University of Wisconsin -- still developed a cult following among his peers. They marveled not just at his mastery of the theoretical tools, but also his first-hand feel for rural America. 
 He traveled to 2,500 counties (of 3,140) around the country and knew everything from the most common surnames in a given place to the kind of leaves carved above the courthouse steps. Kenneth M. Johnson, a professor of sociology at the University of New Hampshire, called Mr. Beale ''the Michael Jordan of rural research.'' 
 Mr. Beale's greatest single professional contribution, Professor Johnson said, was figuring out in the 1960s that decades of decline in rural population were being reversed in some areas. Mr. Beale saw that hydroelectric dams in the Ozarks created reservoirs that in turn drew vacationers, some of whom stayed; he noticed industries like textiles, meatpacking and chemicals moving into areas that had been entirely agricultural.
 When confronted with Mr. Beale's reports of a population rebound, Professor Johnson said: ''People didn't believe it. It was so contrary to 150 years of American history.'' When the first of the new data came out from the 1970 census, Mr. Beale was vindicated.
 Mr. Beale, who is survived by three nephews in addition to his niece, was often a mentor to younger colleagues, like John Cromartie, who eventually worked with him at the Agriculture Department.
 Mr. Cromartie, a geographer with the department's resource and rural economics division, said Mr. Beale's development of population theories came from his travels as much as from any computer model. Most demographers, Mr. Cromartie said, ''start with the theories and test them.'' But, he added, Mr. Beale's on-the-ground knowledge of the overlooked byways of the country allowed him to ''start from the bottom and show everyone the big picture from that perspective.''
 Often it was the quirky or forgotten people that drew the demographer's eye. Sprinkled throughout ''A Taste of the Country,'' a collection of Mr. Beale's writings published by the Rand Corporation in 1990, are glimpses of little-noticed history. 
 He wrote, for example, of a mixed-race people called Melungeons, reputedly of white, black and Indian descent. They are found from the Tidewater areas to the Piedmont and the Allegheny-Cumberland Plateaus. ''Some are landless, some landed,'' he wrote. ''But they are all marginal men -- wary until recently of being black, aspiring where possible to be white and subject to rejection and scorn on either hand.''
 Another chapter is devoted entirely to a Creole fire company in Mobile City, Ala., founded in 1819 and still operating when Mr. Beale visited in 1963. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); HISTORY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (65%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (65%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); COLORECTAL CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



50 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: And Then There Was One

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
As we emerge from Labor Day, college students are gathering back on campuses not only to start the fall semester, but also, in some cases, to vote for the first time in a presidential election. There is no bigger issue on campuses these days than environment/energy. Going into this election, I thought that -- for the first time -- we would have a choice between two ''green'' candidates. That view is no longer operative -- and college students (and everyone else) need to understand that.
 With his choice of Sarah Palin -- the Alaska governor who has advocated drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and does not believe mankind is playing any role in climate change -- for vice president, John McCain has completed his makeover from the greenest Republican to run for president to just another representative of big oil. 
 Given the fact that Senator McCain deliberately avoided voting on all eight attempts to pass a bill extending the vital tax credits and production subsidies to expand our wind and solar industries, and given his support for lowering the gasoline tax in a reckless giveaway that would only promote more gasoline consumption and intensify our addiction to oil, and given his desire to make more oil-drilling, not innovation around renewable energy, the centerpiece of his energy policy -- in an effort to mislead voters that support for drilling today would translate into lower prices at the pump today -- McCain has forfeited any claim to be a green candidate.
 So please, students, when McCain comes to your campus and flashes a few posters of wind turbines and solar panels, ask him why he has been AWOL when it came to Congress supporting these new technologies. 
 ''Back in June, the Republican Party had a round-up,'' said Carl Pope, the executive director of the Sierra Club. ''One of the unbranded cattle -- a wizened old maverick name John McCain -- finally got roped. Then they branded him with a big 'Lazy O' -- George Bush's brand, where the O stands for oil. No more maverick. 
 ''One of McCain's last independent policies putting him at odds with Bush was his opposition to drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge,'' added Pope, ''yet he has now picked a running mate who has opposed holding big oil accountable and been dismissive of alternative energy while focusing her work on more oil drilling in a wildlife refuge and off of our coasts. While the northern edge of her state literally falls into the rising Arctic Ocean, Sarah Palin says, 'The jury is still out on global warming.' She's the one hanging the jury -- and John McCain is going to let her.''
 Indeed, Palin's much ballyhooed confrontations with the oil industry have all been about who should get more of the windfall profits, not how to end our addiction.
 Barack Obama should be doing more to promote his green agenda, but at least he had the courage, in the heat of a Democratic primary, not to pander to voters by calling for a lifting of the gasoline tax. And while he has come out for a limited expansion of offshore drilling, he has refrained from misleading voters that this is in any way a solution to our energy problems.
 I am not against a limited expansion of off-shore drilling now. But it is a complete sideshow. By constantly pounding into voters that his energy focus is to ''drill, drill, drill,'' McCain is diverting attention from what should be one of the central issues in this election: who has the better plan to promote massive innovation around clean power technologies and energy efficiency. 
 Why? Because renewable energy technologies -- what I call ''E.T.'' -- are going to constitute the next great global industry. They will rival and probably surpass ''I.T.'' -- information technology. The country that spawns the most E.T. companies will enjoy more economic power, strategic advantage and rising standards of living. We need to make sure that is America. Big oil and OPEC want to make sure it is not.
 Palin's nomination for vice president and her desire to allow drilling in the Alaskan wilderness ''reminded me of a lunch I had three and half years ago with one of the Russian trade attaches,'' global trade consultant Edward Goldberg said to me. ''After much wine, this gentleman told me that his country was very pleased that the Bush administration wanted to drill in the Alaskan wilderness. In his opinion, the amount of product one could actually derive from there was negligible in terms of needs. However, it signified that the Bush administration was not planning to do anything to create alternative energy, which of course would threaten the economic growth of Russia.''
 So, college students, don't let anyone tell you that on the issue of green, this election is not important. It is vitally important, and the alternatives could not be more black and white. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); WILDLIFE (88%); GASOLINE (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MAMMALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); WIND POWER PLANTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSUMPTION (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); FUEL TAX (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



51 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS: THE ECONOMY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: More on the 'Whiners'

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
The last whine may belong to former Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, now that he has reportedly revived his comment calling Americans who are fretful about the economy ''whiners.'' 
Mr. Gramm, below, a close friend of Mr. McCain's since their days in the Senate, got into hot water in July for telling a newspaper that the United States was a ''nation of whiners'' and that it suffered only from ''a mental recession.''
On Tuesday, Mr. Gramm told the Financial Services Roundtable, a lobbying group for the banking industry, at an event it was holding near the Republican National Convention, ''If you're sitting here today, you're not economically illiterate and you're not a whiner, so I'm not worried about who you're going to vote for,'' according to Bloomberg News.
After making the original comment, Mr. Gramm forfeited his role as a co-chairman of the McCain campaign. Even so, a senior McCain adviser said privately that Mr. Gramm, an economic conservative who was chairman of the Senate Banking Committee and is now a vice chairman for UBS Investment Bank, could well be Treasury secretary in a McCain administration.
Asked for a comment on the latest Gramm remark, a McCain campaign spokeswoman, Jill Hazelbaker, responded in an e-mail message, ''as is well documented, he resigned from the campaign in july.''
Bloomberg News reported that Mr. Gramm defended the campaign's vetting of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska to be Mr. McCain's running mate by saying, ''We went through a process of vetting all possible candidates.''
The controversy has been useful to Senator Barack Obama, who in his attempts to court working-class voters alluded to the original Gramm remark in his nationally televised nomination acceptance speech last week in Denver. JACKIE CALMES

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%)

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (68%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



52 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: Pastors' Web Electioneering Attracts U.S. Reviews of Tax Exemptions

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
There was a time when a minister like James David Manning could stand in the pulpit of his little church on 123rd Street in Harlem and say pretty much anything he liked about a presidential candidate. Beyond his community of devoted parishioners, who was to know?
 But when Pastor Manning, who is black, posted an angry sermon in February on the Web site of his church, the Atlah World Ministries, denouncing Senator Barack Obama as a ''pimp'' and Mr. Obama's mother as a ''trashy white woman,'' his preaching spread like a virus on YouTube, earning lavish attention on right-wing talk shows -- and two weeks ago, the less-welcome attention of a watchdog group, which filed a formal complaint with the Internal Revenue Service.
 The I.R.S., which can revoke the tax exemptions of churches that express support or opposition to candidates for public office, has declined to say whether it is reviewing Mr. Manning's case. But in the past year, the agency has undertaken its first serious look at the digitized church world that his sermon represents, issuing a set of new guidelines that bar electioneering on the Web. 
 Both partisan-minded religious groups and those that police the boundaries between church and state say the implications of that new scrutiny are great. 
 Even as the increasing Web fluency of religious organizations has flung their doors wide to a new world of potential followers, it has also opened the gates for all to see what may have been intended only for the faithful in the pews. Now, I.R.S. investigators, as well as groups that monitor churches' political activity, can do much of their work with a simple Google search, or a surfing of YouTube posts.
 This year, several cases of possible electioneering by clerics have come to the federal government's attention because of Webcasting. During the Florida Republican primary campaign, a blogging tax lawyer blew the whistle on Bill Keller, a St. Petersburg televangelist who preached on his Web site that a vote for former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a Mormon, was ''a vote for Satan.'' Mr. Keller has since confirmed that the I.R.S. is reviewing his church's tax status.
 This month, Maury Davis, the pastor of a megachurch in Nashville, told his congregation that I.R.S. rules prohibited him from saying at the pulpit what he could say as a private citizen: that he supported three parishioners running for school board, whom he then named. His remarks, posted in a video on the church Web site, made it into the local newspaper, and the watchdog group Americans United for Separation of Church and State filed a complaint with the revenue service.
 ''What we are learning is that you can preach to the choir and say anything you want to people who think just like you do,'' said Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, an author and blogger who frequently explores the intersection of religion and new media, ''or you can preach to the world and accept certain limits.''
 Some church officials are chafing at those limits. ''The I.R.S. goes, and it's scouring the Internet looking for trouble,'' said Erik Stanley, senior legal counsel for a conservative Christian group called the Alliance Defense Fund, which defends clergy members accused of partisan activities. ''It is our contention that in church it is the pastor who should determine what is said, not the I.R.S.''
 The agency has long had the authority to revoke the tax-exempt status of religious and charitable groups -- known as 501(c)(3) organizations under a law passed in 1954 -- if they participate in ''activities that favor or oppose one or more candidates for public office.''
 Typically, it does not initiate investigations but acts on complaints from individuals or groups like Americans United, which filed the complaint against Mr. Manning. Investigations can take years, in part because of the process of deposition-taking and verification, and in part, experts say, because of a sensitivity to the special role of religious freedom in the country's history. Only a handful of churches have ever lost their tax exemptions, and then only temporarily.
 It is unclear whether the accessibility of evidence on the Internet will produce more or speedier investigations. So far this year, the rate of new cases the revenue agency has pursued roughly matches that in the campaign years of 2004 and 2006 -- when there were about 100 annually, according to Nancy Mathis, an agency spokeswoman.
 But even though many churches and charity groups have had Web sites for years, the agency issued its first guidelines on the matter in June 2007. In a memo to enforcement officers posted on its Web site, which many tax-exempt groups monitor, the I.R.S. said that if ''a 501 (c) (3) organization posts something on its Web site that favors or opposes a candidate for public office, the organization will be treated the same as if it distributed printed material, oral statements or broadcasts that favored or opposed a candidate.'' Several clarifying guidelines were issued last month. 
 Since the early 1990s, when the revenue service imposed severe penalties in several high-profile cases, including a two-year revocation of the tax exemption for Jerry Falwell's ''Old Time Gospel Hour,'' most religious organizations and clergy members have been careful to keep within the I.R.S. limits.
 To explain the latest changes, many religious groups have held online seminars, or Webinars. The liberal-leaning Interfaith Alliance, which favors strict enforcement of the rules on the principle that religion is compromised by involvement in partisan politics, has arranged conference calls for clergy members to discuss the new guidelines with I.R.S. officials.
 Ms. Mathis, the agency's spokeswoman, declined to discuss its investigative techniques, but said that cases springing from Web sites had raised new issues. If a cleric appears on his or her church's Web page endorsing or attacking a candidate, she said, that is clearly no different from a sermon in the pulpit.
 But links on the same page, to other sites connected directly or indirectly to partisan groups, are a more complicated matter. In one recent I.R.S. memo, the question is addressed with almost Talmudic intensity, urging enforcement agents to explore the issue of ''electronic proximity -- including the number of 'clicks' that separate the objectionable material from the 501(c)(3) organization's Web site.''
 ''What is so fascinating here is that the Internet is instantaneous, and the government is slow,'' said Frances R. Hill, a professor at the University of Miami School of Law who specializes in nonprofit tax law. ''Whether this will speed the government up in the use of its authority remains to be seen. Clearly, what church groups used to spend a lot of time and money doing with voter guides they can now do in a rapid, cost-free way.''
 Rush Limbaugh was among the first to highlight Mr. Manning's attacks on Mr. Obama. On his nationally syndicated radio show on March 19, Mr. Limbaugh played extensive excerpts of a Feb. 16 sermon, first posted on the Web site of the Harlem church, which was by then drawing a large audience on YouTube. (To date, the 10-minute video has had 2.1 million ''views.'')
 On the tape, the pastor said, ''Obama is a long-legged mack daddy,'' using a slang term for an accomplished street hustler. ''I haven't trashed Obama. His African-in-heat father went a-whoring after a trashy white woman. He was born trash.'' Mr. Manning praised Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and her husband, the former president, for bringing economic vitality to Harlem, but called Mr. Obama thecandidate of ''irresponsibility and unaccountability.''
 Mr. Manning, a 1985 graduate of Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan with a master's degree in theology, did not respond to phone and e-mail messages left at his church.
 Barry W. Lynn, executive director of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, said the complaint his group filed on Aug. 15 against Mr. Manning cited the videotaped sermon, in which he ''clearly and unequivocally opposes a candidate for public office, and he does it standing at the pulpit of his church.''
 ''We first saw it on YouTube, which is a kind of unorthodox first for us,'' he added. While news accounts and complaints from individuals are the organization's usual sources of information, Mr. Lynn said the Web would most likely become the dominant source.
 By most accounts, it is not difficult for clergy members to avoid violating the I.R.S. rules, which permit them to preach about issues that play heavily in political campaigns, like abortion or marriage or the evils of war. They can even anoint candidates -- several prominent ministers have endorsed Mr. Obama and Senator John McCain -- as long as it is not from the pulpit, and they make it clear they speak only for themselves.
 ''It's what I call the 'wink-wink rule,' '' said Charles C. Haynes, a senior scholar at the First Amendment Center, a nonpartisan group affiliated with Vanderbilt University in Nashville. ''I've seen pastors say they were 'speaking for themselves only' while standing in the pulpit.'' 
 But some clerics view any restriction as an unbearable infringement of free speech. 
 ''I have every right to preach against anyone and anything that is anti-Biblical, and if they don't like it that's too bad,'' said Wiley Drake, the pastor of First Southern Baptist Church of Buena Park, Calif. Last year, Mr. Wiley called on his followers to say imprecatory prayers -- pleas for misfortune or death -- against Mr. Lynn because he had complained to the I.R.S. that Mr. Wiley had endorsed former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas in e-mail messages using his church's letterhead.
 ''Now, they are surveilling us with the Internet, and I say, enough is enough,'' Mr. Drake said. ''It's time we reclaim our right to speak out.''
 In May, the Alliance Defense Fund invited clergy members around the country to challenge I.R.S. tax-exemption rules by preaching sermons on Sept. 28 -- it coined the phrase ''Pulpit Freedom Sunday'' -- ''specifically opposing candidates for office whose political positions conflict with scriptural truth.''
 The Defense Fund is hoping to generate a constitutional test case of the 1954 law, and says about 25 ministers have agreed to participate.
 Mr. Stanley, the group's senior legal counsel, said some of the sermons preached that day would undoubtedly be posted on church Web sites. 
 ''We will not tell them to do it, but if they do, so be it,'' Mr. Stanley said. ''We want the I.R.S. to come and look at these sermons.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rev. James David Manning's YouTube video denouncing Senator Barack Obama has led a watchdog group to complain.(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); WEB SITES (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (74%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); SCHOOL BOARDS (72%); LAWYERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



53 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2252 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: September 3, 2008

 BODY:
International
 U.S. INQUIRY INTO AIRSTRIKE DEATHS
 Is at Odds With Afghan Tally
 An investigation by the American military found that 5 to 7 civilians and 30 to 35 Taliban were killed in an airstrike operation in western Afghanistan last month, many fewer than the 90 civilians that the Afghan government and the United Nations found in their preliminary investigations. PAGE A10 
 HARSH WORDS FOR GEORGIAN LEADER
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia said that he no longer recognized Mikheil Saakashvili as the president of Georgia, calling him ''a political corpse'' in an interview on the Italian television channel RAI. They were the most lacerating words to date about a government Moscow wants to force from power. The Russian president made his comments a day after the European Union issued a statement strongly criticizing Russia for its military offensive in Georgia, but stopped short of imposing sanctions. PAGE A10 
 TYCOON CHARGED IN STAR'S KILLING
 A wealthy Egyptian businessman and lawmaker was charged with paying $2 million for the contract killing of Suzanne Tamim, a well-known Lebanese pop star, who was found dead in her apartment in Dubai in July. The police said the tycoon, Hisham Talaat Moustafa, one of his nation's largest real estate developers and a member of President Hosni Mubarak's governing National Democratic Party, had sought Ms. Tamim's death as an act of revenge, but did not specify the source of his anger. PAGE A12 
 HALTING PLANT FOR CHEAPEST CAR
 Tata Motors, the Indian automaker, said that political protests over land had compelled it to stop building a plant in eastern India for its much-awaited Nano model, which was intended to be the world's cheapest car. The car was set to cost about $2,250, but it was dogged from the beginning by one of India's most wrenching problems: how to create space for industry by moving farmers off their land and compensating them adequately. PAGE A9 
 3 CHARGED IN BOMBING PLOT
 German prosecutors said that they had charged three men arrested last year on suspicion of planning what officials said was a major terrorist plot, aimed at locations in Germany frequented by Americans, with the potential to kill hundreds. The arrests shocked Germany, in part because two of the suspects were German converts to Islam. Officials said the men had visited terrorist training camps in the Waziristan region of Pakistan. PAGE A9 
 National
 REPORT SAYS GONZALES MISHANDLED
 Classified Material on Wiretapping
 In a report by the Justice Department's inspector general, former Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales was found to have mishandled highly classified information related to the National Security Agency's wiretapping program and the administration's prisoner interrogation program. The most delicate material among the documents was Mr. Gonzales's handwritten account of an emergency meeting held at the White House in March 2004 regarding the agency's wiretapping program, which investigators concluded he took home in his briefcase, in violation of security procedures. PAGE A15 
 GOVERNOR TO DECIDE MAYOR'S FATE
 Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick of Detroit, who is charged with 10 felonies including perjury and assaulting a police officer, could know his fate in a matter of days. A judge ruled that Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan had the authority to remove Mr. Kilpatrick from office, and Ms. Granholm planned to begin a hearing on Wednesday morning, where she was to ask Mr. Kilpatrick to defend himself against charges of misconduct. PAGE A22 
 AN IMPASSE BOGS DOWN CALIFORNIA
 California's state budget is now 64 days late -- the latest in its history. The haggling between the Legislature and the governor over how to make up for a $15 billion gap in the budget has tied up money for state services, forcing health care clinics to reduce their staffs, community college students to be denied tuition grants and at one high school, art classes to be moved to the lawn, because the school district cannot afford new portable classrooms. PAGE A15 
 WEIGHING REBUILDING OR LEAVING
 Hurricane Katrina cut the population of tiny Pearlington, Miss. in half, to about 1,000. The school has not been rebuilt, nor have many homes, as post-hurricane aid has been concentrated in other areas. On Monday, Hurricane Gustav poured water into about 100 homes. And once again, residents of the town are faced with the a painful question: Is it worth it to rebuild? PAGE A20 
 REVIVING A FLOOD WARNING PLAN
 Federal and state officials are revisiting a plan to install a warning system for the isolated Havasupai Indian Reservation in Arizona after a flood last month through a reservation campground at the bottom of the Grand Canyon sent hundreds of tourists scrambling for their lives. The warning system was originally proposed in 1995, but was set aside because of a lack of money. PAGE A15 
 BUSINESS
 NEW ABU DHABI FUND TO SPEND
 $1 Billion to Finance Films
 The Abu Dhabi Media Company, an arm of the government in the city-state capital of the United Arab Emirates, is starting a new subsidiary that will spend about $1 billion to make feature-length films, in partnership with three American producers. The deal comes amid a flurry of partnerships between Hollywood studios and outfits in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. PAGE C1 
 BOEING AWAITS MACHINISTS' VOTE
 Members of the machinists' union at the Boeing Company will cast two votes that will determine whether they accept a new contract or strike at a crucial moment for the aircraft maker in the development of its newest plane, the Dreamliner. If the contract is rejected, two-thirds of those voting must then agree to the walkout. PAGE C9 
 TEST-DRIVING GOOGLE'S NEW BROWSER
 With no status bar, no menu bar and only a single toolbar, Chrome -- Google's new browser, which it developed in secrecy and released to the world on Tuesday -- is minimalist in the extreme. But it is full of smart features that seem to have been inspired by other browsers -- or ripped from them, depending on your cynicism factor. David Pogue, State of the Art. PAGE C1 
 GERMANY'S GENDER WAGE GAP
 Millions of working mothers -- and sometimes fathers -- have to make often difficult trade-offs when it comes to work and family, but labor experts say the calculus is especially harsh in Germany, a country that despite having a female head of state and sitting at the center of supposedly liberal Europe, has one of the widest gender wage gaps on the Continent. PAGE C1 
 Emirates' Rivalry in Soccer Sale C4 
 METRO
 PAKISTANI SCIENTIST'S NOTES HINT
 At a 'Mass Casualty Attack'
 A federal indictment said that Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani neuroscientist described by American officials as an Al Qaeda operative, was carrying handwritten notes when she was detained in Afghanistan that referred to a ''mass casualty attack'' and listed landmarks, like the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty. PAGE B3 
 THE I.R.S. AND THE ONLINE PULPIT
 A watchdog group filed a complaint with the Internal Revenue Service against James David Manning, the pastor of a Harlem church who criticizes Senator Barack Obama in many of the sermons that he posts online. And with more churches posting their sermons on the Web, more cases of electioneering from the pulpit have come to the attention of the I.R.S., which bars tax-exempt institutions from openly endorsing candidates for political office. PAGE B1 
 Dining
 HONEY, I SHRUNK YOUR ENTREE.
 Belts Tighten at the Restaurant
 The tiny gourmet entree is becoming the norm, and not out of some sense of avant garde dining. As the economy grinds along ever slower, restaurateurs are feeling the bite, and as a consequence, so are diners. Craving a steak? These days it's hanger, not sirloin. Page F3 
 STUFFED-CRUST DEEP-DISH, IT'S NOT
 Can you cross Pizza Hut with anything and have it be good? Jim Lahey plans for a new Pizzeria in Chelsea is hinging a lot on the idea that he can. His intention is to cross it with Blue Hill and create a place with friendly prices and a welcoming atmosphere -- that's the Pizza Hut contribution -- that is also ingredient obsessed. Page F7 
 IF IT AIN'T BROKEN, RE-INVENT IT
 Can't get much simpler than the hamburger, can it? Heat, meat and bun. But basic doesn't mean boring. At 5 Napkin Burger on Ninth Avenue, the 10-ounce sandwich that is the place's namesake, oozes cheese. 67 Burger in Fort Greene boasts grill guys who sometimes dance and a bun baked by Pechter's of Brooklyn. Oh, and don't forget Joy Burger in Harlem where if you're smart you'll lose your virtue all over again and order the Maxi Burger. Page F14 
 Arts
 B-MOVIES, BOX OFFICE BOMBS
 And a President's Forgotten Years
 Ronald Reagan's acting career is usually not given much attention, in part because he was relegated to Hollywood's B-list and because so many of his 50 films remain so hard to find. In ''Reagan: The Hollywood Years,'' Marc Eliot takes a fresh look at that subject matter, which is well worth dusting off for a fresh examination. A review by Janet Maslin. PAGE E8 
 EMPATHIZING WITH A RIVAL
 David Letterman and Jay Leno have long been rivals, fighting for the eyeballs of late night television watchers. But in a recent magazine interview, however, Mr. Letterman says he felt empathy for Jay Leno, who will be replaced as the host of ''The Tonight Show'' by Conan O'Brien. He also regrets never having bested Mr. Leno in the ratings. ''I wish that we -- and when I say 'we' I mean 'me' -- I wish I could have prevailed,'' he said. PAGE E1 
 AFTER THE SPOTLIGHT
 In her new memoir, ''When I Grow Up,'' the intensely shy singer-songwriter Juliana Hatfield recounts battling depression and anorexia during a brief flirtation with mainstream success in the early 1990's, and the subsequent impact it had on her career. ''I don't have anything to prove anymore,'' said Ms. Hatfield. PAGE E3 
 Sports
 FINALLY GETTING INVOLVED 
 In the Family Business
 In his previous dalliances with getting involved in the world of professional tennis, John P. McEnroe, the patriarch of the tennis family, was shooed away by his ubiquitous sons, two of the most prominent figures in American tennis. But Mr. McEnroe is now openly angling to become the next executive chairman and president of the Association of Tennis Professionals, or ATP, the governing body of the men's tour. But this time, his sons are all for it. PAGE C17 
 HOARDING ALL THE BLUE CHIPS
 Ben Dogra and Tom Condon make for an odd pair, but the two football agents have quietly become serious power brokers in professional football. They represent an impressive roster of N.F.L. players, including the Manning brothers, Matt Leinart and LaDainian Tomlinson, and snatching up 4 of the first 8 picks from April's draft, including the Miami Dolphins rookie tackle Jake Long, above. PAGE C15 
 ROUNDING OUT RYDER CUP SQUAD
 When Paul Azinger, the United States captain, named his four picks for the United States Ryder Cup team, it was a marked contrast to the contentious announcement made by Nick Faldo, the European captain, over the weekend. His four selections -- Steve Stricker, Hunter Mahan, J. B. Holmes and Chad Campbell -- round out a squad that is only an injured Tiger Woods from being the most solid team over all that the United States has fielded in a decade. PAGE C18 
 WHO'S NO. 1? NO, REALLY. WHO?
 The WTA is set to make major changes to next year's women's tour. Those include a shorter season that ends in October, more than $85 million in prize money, a reduction in the number of tournaments players are required to play. But what needs the most adjusting is the sport's confounding ranking system, in which a player can fail to win a Grand Slam event, fail to even reach a Grand Slam final and still end up as the world's number one player. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE C16 
 Obituaries
 DON LAFONTAINE, 68
 His ubiquitous baritone was featured in thousands of television commercials and movie trailers, and he wrote most of his voiceovers. That includes his most famous phrase, ''In a world where. . .,'' which has become over-used and the subject of parody. PAGE A21 
 Editorial
 CANDIDATE MCCAIN'S BIG DECISION
 To address its many problems, this country needs a leader with sound judgment and strong leadership skills. Choosing Sarah Palin to be vice president raises serious questions about John McCain's qualifications. Page A22
 MR. BUSH'S BLUE LEGACY
 President Bush may be on the brink of doing something stunningly at odds with his record as one of the worst environmental stewards ever to inhabit the White House. He may set aside three vast, remote corners of the Pacific Ocean for protection. Page A22
 THE REAL NUMBERS ON H.I.V.
 It has been difficult over the years to get a good statistical handle on the size of the nation's AIDS problem. But the latest, most sophisticated measures indicate that the disease continues to frustrate government efforts to rein it in. Page A22
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 In naming Sarah Palin as his running mate, John McCain has completed his makeover from the greenest Republican to run for president to just another representative of big oil. Page A23
 HOW THE FED CAN FIX THE WORLD
 A whole new regulatory framework is needed for the major financial borrowers, and it should be administered by the Federal Reserve, Roger C. Altman writes in an Op-Ed essay. Otherwise, it will become increasingly difficult for the Fed to protect the financial system. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); WIRETAPPING (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); MEN (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (54%); TTM (NYSE) (54%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (78%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EAST INDIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); GEORGIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



54 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Despite Lower Oil Prices, Little Relief for Consumers

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
As oil prices surged this year, manufacturers raised the prices of a lot of products -- not just gasoline but lotions, toothpaste, plastics and many more items that use oil as a raw material. But now that oil costs are plunging, other prices are not following them lower -- not yet, anyway.
Even though oil prices have fallen closer to $100 a barrel, from $147 about two months ago, many companies that cited higher energy costs for increasing prices are resisting a rollback, saying they still need to recover money lost in the run-up. 
Crude oil prices slid Tuesday by $5.75, to $109.71 a barrel, down 25 percent from the high on July 11, as Hurricane Gustav passed near New Orleans without damaging oil production facilities. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped more than 220 points before falling as energy company shares lost ground.
As oil tumbles, prices at the gas pump come down. But the costs of many other products have not. Procter & Gamble, for example, has raised by 7 percent to 10 percent the prices it charges retailers for items made with ingredients derived from oil. The company is planning to maintain the increase ''to recover costs already incurred,'' Paul Fox, a spokesman, said.
Such decisions will come as little relief for thousands of retailers and wholesalers that have been forced to squeeze margins instead of passing their elevated costs to consumers, who have cut back on consumption of finished goods as their bills for groceries and gas jumped.
P.& G., Dow Chemical, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, as well as other big users of oil-based raw materials, are waiting to see if oil prices will stay down or continue to fall before they commit to price cuts.
''Everybody still feels there is too much uncertainty to be clear about what action they should take,'' said Ali Dibadj, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, who specializes in companies that use oil-based raw materials in making a variety of consumer products. ''They won't immediately drop their prices.''
Until recently, robust growth in Europe and a seemingly endless thirst for petroleum in China and developing nations lifted global demand for oil, and the price with it. But now some economies, especially in Europe, are weakening almost more rapidly than America's, lifting the dollar. That should help relieve price pressures over all by making imports -- as well as oil prices -- cheaper.
This uncertainty helps to explain why Dow Chemical, for example, which had raised prices this year by nearly 50 percent for the oil-based raw materials that go into the manufacture of products like diapers and polystyrene, does not want to give up those increases until the company recovers its old profit margins. ''Our prices continue to lag our cost increases,'' the spokesman, David Winder, said.
And Goodyear Tire and Rubber, which has raised tire prices by 15 percent this year, said it was still making synthetic rubber tires from oil-based feed stocks bought at relatively high prices more than three months ago.
Keith Price, a Goodyear spokesman, said Goodyear could not consider canceling the price increase until it knew whether oil prices were going to stay down.
The decline in oil prices has also dragged the cost of other commodities sharply lower since early summer. Corn, in particular, has slumped: it settled on Tuesday at $5.69 a bushel, down 29 percent since June 27. Soybean prices are down 21 percent in the same period.
Despite the steep declines in the cost of raw ingredients, prices for packaged foods sold at supermarkets are likely to remain higher than they were last year, said Ephraim Leibtag, an economist who studies food markets for the Agriculture Department.
With oil prices in sharp decline, the nation's millions of car owners are a little better off. The average price of a gallon of gas settled at $3.68 on Tuesday, down from a record $4.11 in mid-July. ''That's a 43-cent decline,'' said Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist for the Ford Motor Company. ''It's almost like a tax cut for consumers.''
Just the opposite holds for commuters who travel on the nation's airlines. The major carriers have pushed through 15 price increases since the beginning of the year, with 11 of them depicted as fuel surcharges. None of the domestic airlines has stated how or when the surcharges might be removed, making them the equivalent of price increases, said Rick Seaney, who runs FareCompare.com, a Web site offering information on plane fares.
Like Procter & Gamble, Dow Chemical and Goodyear, the airlines suggest that what they do with fares depends on what happens to the price of oil over the long run.
''We would love to see it come down and stay down,'' said Betsy E. Talton, a Delta spokeswoman.
Interest rates were slightly lower with the rate on the 10-year Treasury note at 3.73 percent, down from 3.81 percent late Friday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 21/32, to 102 6/32.
Following are the results of Tuesday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Dick Cheney, President Bush and Samuel W. Bodman, the secretary of energy, discussed the hurricane Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANNIE GARCIA/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C9) CHART: PRICE OF ALL COMMODITIES
PRICE OF OIL
PRICE OF GAS Chart details line graphs for prices of oil. (Sources: Bloomberg
Energy Information Administration) (pg. C1)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity.
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Chart details line graph for treasury bills.(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); TOILETRIES MFG (89%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); POLYSTYRENE (73%); RETAILERS (71%); RUBBER & SILICONE (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (65%); TIRES (64%)

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (66%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (66%); GT (NASDAQ) (66%); GT (BRU) (66%); DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (66%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (66%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (66%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (66%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (66%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (55%); DICK CHENEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



55 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING AMERICAS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: ARGENTINA: A MOVE TO PAY DEBT

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Argentina surprised investors by vowing to tap foreign reserves to pay its defaulted debt to foreign governments grouped together in the Paris Club, a move that pleased local business leaders but fanned concerns about the country's finances. President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said the government would use central bank reserves to pay the Paris Club $6.7 billion in debt in default since a 2001-2 economic crisis. Mrs. Kirchner, above, said 87 percent of the debt owed to the Paris Club of creditor nations was held by Japan, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and the United States. The announcement comes as many economists question Argentina's ability to meet growing financing needs next year, given high public spending. Officials at the Paris Club in the French capital did not comment immediately on the announcement. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: PARIS CLUB (94%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) ARGENTINA (94%); FRANCE (91%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



56 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, a Leadership Vacuum

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda's abrupt resignation, the second by a Japanese premier in under a year, underscores the chronic leadership vacuum plaguing the world's second-largest economy, even as it threatens to slip into recession. 
 Mr. Fukuda's announcement on Monday night surprised Japan, coming almost a year after the equally sudden resignation of his predecessor, the rightist Shinzo Abe. 
 After two political misfires in such a short time, Japan looks increasingly incapable of producing strong leadership despite facing a host of pressing issues, from the rise of neighboring China to crucial upcoming domestic elections. 
 However, economists said the resignation's actual impact on Japan's direction will be limited, largely because Mr. Fukuda -- already an unpopular leader who had accomplished little during his year in office -- had largely ceded decision making to entrenched political interests and the nation's powerful bureaucrats.
 ''Another year, another prime minister,'' said Richard Jerram, an economist in Tokyo for Macquarie Capital Securities. ''The policy impact of the new prime minister will be relatively limited.'' 
 Just days before his announcement, Mr. Fukuda unveiled a $17 billion stimulus package that was seen by economists as too small to boost Japan's stalling $4.7 trillion economy, which many economists agree is heading into a recession caused by higher commodity prices and a slowdown in exports to the United States and China. 
 Indeed, a string of unpopular, colorless leaders has actually been the political norm in Japan, which has gone through 13 prime ministers in the last two decades. For generations, political decisions here have been made by consensus, usually in back rooms among the various factions of the Liberal Democratic Party, which has enjoyed nearly unbroken rule for 50 years. Strong leaders capable of putting a personal imprint on policy, such as former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, a Liberal Democrat who resigned two years ago, have been the rare exception. 
 Economists and political analysts said there was not much prospect for a return to Mr. Koizumi's style of charismatic leadership short of a comeback by Mr. Koizumi himself, which few here expect. The current favorite to replace the 72-year-old Mr. Fukuda is Taro Aso, 67, an outspoken, conservative former foreign minister who has scored poorly in public opinion polls. 
 Mr. Aso, whom Mr. Fukuda defeated to become prime minister last year, has called for more government spending to boost the economy, unlike the fiscally hawkish Mr. Fukuda. On Tuesday, he announced his candidacy for leader of the Liberal Democrats, which will be decided in a vote on Sept. 22. 
 Whoever wins the party vote will immediately replace Mr. Fukuda, since the Liberal Democrats control the lower house of Parliament, which chooses the prime minister. 
 Because the upper house is in the hands of the largest opposition party, the Democratic Party of Japan, even the few measures that Mr. Fukuda did try to pass during his time as premier ran into stalemate in Parliament. Those included the selection of a new central bank chief and the renewal of a law allowing Japanese ships to refuel American and other vessels involved in the war in Afghanistan. 
 The biggest chance for a change, say economists and political analysts, will come during upcoming lower house elections, which must be held sometime in the coming year. 
 If the opposition party can defeat the unpopular Liberal Democrats in the elections, it will gain control of government for only the second time during the last half century. But even if it does win, the Democratic Party may end up altering little, given its own lack of both strong leaders and a clear policy agenda, say political analysts. 
 If the ruling Liberal Democrats hold onto control of the lower house, as many political analysts predict, the parliamentary deadlock could continue for at least five years, until upper house elections give the ruling party a chance to retake the upper chamber. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (90%); SHINZO ABE (79%); TARO ASO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008



57 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Investments Are Faltering In Chrysler and GMAC

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Stephen A. Feinberg, one of the country's most powerful -- and secretive -- financiers, hoped to make a fortune out of the detritus of the American auto industry. Instead, he seems to be losing one. 
 Mr. Feinberg's giant investment fund, Cerberus Capital Management, is racing to salvage multibillion-dollar investments in Chrysler, the smallest of the Detroit automakers, and GMAC, the financing arm of General Motors. 
 But for Cerberus, named after the mythological three-headed dog who guards the gates of hell, the news keeps getting worse. 
 On Wednesday, Chrysler, which owns the Jeep and Dodge brands, said its sales in the United States fell by a third in August -- nearly twice the industry average -- as the downturn in the auto business dragged on. Honda eclipsed Chrysler as the nation's No. 4 seller of cars, and Nissan is closing in fast. 
 The same day, GMAC, in which Cerberus holds a 51 percent stake, said it was trying to stanch the bleeding from a business that was supposed to be immune to the ups and downs of the car industry: home mortgage lending. GMAC and its home loan unit, Residential Capital, announced that they would dismiss 5,000 employees, or 60 percent of the unit's staff, and close all 200 of its retail mortgage branches.
 It is quite a comedown for Mr. Feinberg, who founded Cerberus in 1992 with $10 million and was initially hailed as a savior at Chrysler. Over the years, Cerberus excelled by gaining control of companies in bankruptcy and nursing them back to financial health. 
 Now, Mr. Feinberg's purchase of Chrysler and his deal for GMAC have knocked Cerberus down a peg. 
 ''Early on, in the Cerberus deal for Chrysler, when it first did these auto industry investments, the story was about how big and influential these funds are, that they think they can buy these iconic industrial companies,'' said Colin C. Blaydon, director of the Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. ''So far, it does not seem to be working out well for them.''
 Chrysler is still recovering from its split a year ago from its German partner, Daimler, and is undergoing a big revamping under Cerberus. Top executives at Cerberus have said they are determined to fix the company and that their $7.4 billion investment will pay off. 
 A Cerberus spokesman said in a statement on Wednesday that it remained confident in its management of Chrysler and GMAC. ''No one is pleased with current market conditions,'' he said. ''However, Cerberus is a patient investor and not a market timer, and we take a long-term view of our investments. Our funds are structured accordingly.''
 Mr. Feinberg hired Robert L. Nardelli, the former chief executive of Home Depot, to turn Chrysler around. Their plan hinges on new offerings beginning in 2010. 
 Since Cerberus acquired Chrysler, the automaker has been trying to squeeze out costs. It has announced the elimination of 28,000 jobs and sold $500 million worth of assets. Last week, Chrysler announced that it was studying a sale of its Dodge Viper sports car business. 
 But like its larger competitors, General Motors and Ford Motor, Chrysler has faced questions over its ability to ride out a downturn in American auto sales that is expected to stretch through 2009. All three Detroit automakers have been hit hard by the sharp decline in sales of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and vans that followed the rise in gas prices this year. 
 Chrysler, which has released limited financial data since Cerberus bought it, ended June with $11.7 billion in cash and had earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $1.1 billion in the first half of the year. But with limited access to financial data, some analysts are skeptical of its overall health.
 The news on Wednesday from GMAC, meantime, underscored that Cerberus also must contend with the housing slump, which has led to huge losses at lenders across the spectrum. That includes Residential Capital, which became one of the nation's biggest mortgage providers and plunged into the market for riskier home loans that could not be sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants that have run into trouble themselves. Now, many of those loans are defaulting as home prices fall and the economy weakens.
 This summer, Residential Capital and its bondholders restructured $14 billion in bonds to ease its debt burden. That restructuring and new loans from GMAC have bought the company time to work out its problems, but analysts say it may not be enough to save the firm from rising defaults on mortgages. Residential Capital bonds are trading at about 70 cents on the dollar. 
 ''They have some time,'' said Andrew Feltus, a bond fund manager at Pioneer Investments. But, he added, ''This environment is going against them.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Another Poor Month for Auto Sales: Vehicle sales in August were down 15.5 percent from last year, the 10th straight month of declines, and once again, American manufacturers fared the worst. Bar Graph. (Source: Autodata) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



58 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Fed Report Underscores Weakness

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The nation is struggling with slow economic growth and continued high prices that are weighing on consumers and businesses as the race for the White House heads into fast gear. 
 The Federal Reserve's new snapshot of business conditions, released on Wednesday, underscores the toll the housing, credit and financial debacles are having and the challenges likely to be faced by the next president. The problems are expected to persist into next year.
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and his colleagues are all but certain to leave a key interest rate alone at 2 percent when they meet Sept. 16, and probably through the rest of the year.
 Given the fragile state of the economy, the Fed is in no hurry to bolster rates to fend off creeping inflation. A growing number of analysts say they believe the economy is likely to hit another rough patch later this year when consumers and businesses curtail their spending even more.
 Heading into the fall, economic activity continues to be slow, the Fed said. Businesses describe the climate as ''weak'' or ''soft'' or ''subdued.''
 Consumers, the lifeblood of the economy, are cautious. Shoppers ''concentrated on necessary items and retrenchment in discretionary spending,'' the Fed said.
 The Fed regions based in Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco, for instance, reported noticeable declines in spending on clothing, electronics and jewelry. Sales of furniture and household appliances, meanwhile, were weak in most parts of the country -- victims of the housing slump.
 On the inflation front, many businesses and consumers are feeling the sting of high prices for food, energy and other items. The recent drop in oil prices from a high of $147.27 in mid-July gives the Fed more reason to keep the key rate steady. Oil prices are now hovering above $108 a barrel.
 And, while businesses welcomed that drop, they told the Fed that prices remained elevated. ''Business contacts in a number of districts indicated that they had increased selling prices in response to the high costs'' for certain commodities.
 Wage gains for workers -- characterized as ''modest'' -- are not raising inflation worries. Wary employers have cut jobs every month so far this year and are not inclined to be overly generous in their compensation to workers amid ''a general pullback in hiring,'' the Fed said.
 The nation's unemployment rate jumped in July to a four-year high of 5.7 percent. Many economists predict the jobless rate will climb a notch higher to 5.8 percent when the government releases the August employment figures on Friday. More job losses also are expected.
 The Fed's report also said that manufacturing activity was ''weak or declining'' in most Fed regions. Demand for housing-related goods and construction materials continued to wane. Although some manufacturers said exports were helping bolster their activity, they also noted ''some recent slowing in growth from this source,'' the Fed said.
 Export growth figured prominently in the second-quarter's rebound. Economic growth clocked in at a 3.3 percent pace, the government reported last week. The rebound is not expected to last, however.
 Economic slowdowns overseas could cause exports to tail off, plunging the country into another rut later this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FOOD PRICES (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); JEWELRY (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



59 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Newcomer Challenges Rangel in Harlem

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Politically, it is certainly a long shot. But the herculean level of the challenge does not seem to faze Craig Schley in the slightest.
 Mr. Schley, 44, a community activist and former model, has collected about 6,000 signatures on petitions to qualify him to run as an independent candidate against Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat who has been in Congress since he defeated Adam Clayton Powell Jr. in 1970. 
 He announced his candidacy on Wednesday at a press conference in Harlem, standing in front of a statue of Powell. Mr. Schley contended that Mr. Rangel had done little for the district and that his decades in office had brought little to northern Manhattan other than development that had pushed out longtime residents. 
 ''The community needs representation that reflects their interests,'' said Mr. Schley, who worked briefly as an intern for Mr. Rangel long ago. ''We have skyrocketing black male unemployment and people who can't afford to live in their homes. There is nothing that indicates that anyone has been taking care of those issues for the last 40 years.'' He continued: ''There is nothing wrong with the congressman. There is only something wrong with the ideas -- or lack of ideas.'' 
 Representative Rangel, 78, who is considered something of a political powerhouse in his northern Manhattan district, is the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and is the fourth-longest-serving Democratic member of the House. 
 Mr. Schley started getting attention in Harlem recently by heading a civic group that opposed a City Council proposal to change the zoning in Harlem to allow high-rise commercial and retail construction. The Council approved the measure in May. Before moving to Harlem in the 1990s, Mr. Schley was a firefighter in Atlanta. He graduated from New York University with a degree in political science, putting himself through school with money he earned from modeling. ''I'm a blue-collar man with a white-collar education,'' he said.
 Mr. Schley, who needed only 3,500 petition signatures, will be running as the candidate of the Voices of the Everyday People for Change Party, which he formed. When asked why he decided not to run in the Democratic primary in the heavily Democratic district, Mr. Schley said that running as an independent would allow to him to spend more time campaigning in the general election rather than devoting resources to a primary campaign.
 Mr. Rangel recalled that his challenger once worked briefly in his office, but that he knew little about Mr. Schley's views. ''He worked for me as an intern some years ago, but I don't know a lot about him,'' Mr. Rangel said, in an interview. ''But I certainly don't challenge anyone's right to run, particularly having started my own political life running against an incumbent.''
 Mr. Rangel will be on the Democratic line in November in the 15th Congressional District, where Senator Barack Obama is expected to win heavily at the top of the ticket.
 ''We believe we will win, and we know it will be a shock,'' Mr. Schley said. ''Is this an uphill race? Of course it is. But how else do you get to be king of the hill if you're not willing to start climbing the hill?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Craig Schley, who is running as an independent, said, ''The community needs representation that reflects their interests.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); PETITIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ZONING (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); APPROVALS (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



60 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Slump Again, but Industry Sees a Leveling Off

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Auto sales sank again in August amid some signs that the industry had bottomed out and economic conditions were slowly improving.
Domestic sales declined by 15.5 percent in August compared with the previous year, the fifth consecutive month of double-digit declines, despite some relief in recent weeks on gas prices.
Even with some of the largest discounts ever offered, automakers were unable to sell many of the pickups and sport utility vehicles clogging dealers' lots. Meanwhile, shortages of many popular, fuel-efficient cars hurt sales of those models. 
Officials at General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, however, expressed hope that the industry had stabilized.
G.M.'s chief sales analyst, Michael C. DiGiovanni, offered some hope for the industry, saying the market might be ''starting to turn the corner'' and that ''consumers are feeling better'' as gas prices recede.
''We know the rest of the year's going to be challenging and there's some serious issues in the credit markets, but the economy may be starting to gain some traction,'' Mr. DiGiovanni said.
Sales fell 20 percent at G.M. for the month and 26 percent at Ford. Chrysler, the third Detroit automaker, said its sales were down 35 percent. Chrysler stopped leasing vehicles through its financing arm as of Aug. 1 because it was losing money on many of the deals, a move that undoubtedly drove some potential customers to rival dealerships.
Foreign automakers fared somewhat better. Sales at Nissan Motor rose 14 percent, while sales dropped less than 10 percent for Toyota Motor and Honda, which have had trouble meeting demand for some of their smaller cars. Honda is opening a factory in Indiana this fall to increase its production of the Civic sedan, which has been among the top-selling vehicles this year.
All three Japanese carmakers gained market share at the expense of the Detroit companies.
Ford's chief economist, Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, said the automaker expected a recovery in the American industry to ''take several months,'' but said recent surveys of consumer confidence showed some positive signs.
''The fact that it is not going down further is very constructive,'' she said. ''Income gains are critical, and we need the economy to recover to get a little sunlight on vehicle sales.''
G.M., Ford and Chrysler are looking forward to 2010, when they will introduce a bevy of fuel-efficient vehicles. They are spending billions to retool truck factories so they can make more small cars.
That same year, they will be able to realize the full savings afforded by the contract they signed with the United Automobile Workers union in 2007.
The market is expected to remain challenging until 2010, said George Magliano, an analyst with the research firm Global Insight.
''I'm keeping my Champagne in the cooler for now,'' Mr. Magliano said. ''We may be at the bottom, but it's going to be a long, long bottom.''
Gas prices have fallen about 11 percent since peaking in mid-July, according to the AAA motor club. That has helped dealers persuade some shoppers to buy S.U.V.'s again, but many would-be buyers were still putting off their purchases for now.
''It's taken a lot of lunacy out of the market,'' Mr. Magliano said. ''When gas prices were going up, people were saying, 'I'm not going to buy anything. Not a sport utility or anything that even looks like a sport utility.' ''
To keep customers coming into its showrooms, G.M. on Wednesday announced an extension of its ''employee pricing'' sale, which began two weeks ago as part of the company's 100th anniversary celebration, through September. G.M.'s market share last month was 24.5 percent, lower than August 2007 but the company's highest level this year.
Mr. DiGiovanni, the G.M. analyst, said that was partly a result of the sale but also indicated that the economy had stopped worsening.
''There had to be more at work here than the employee discount for everyone,'' he said.
Sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, segments that have historically generated enormous profits, have been dismal for most of the year. Through August, sales of all vehicles were down 11.2 percent across the industry, with pickups and S.U.V.'s down 19.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: General Motors is extending its ''employee pricing'' sale, which began two weeks ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks
How Automakers Fared
 Chart shows stats. (Source: Autodat) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); SEDANS (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); TYT (LSE) (53%); TM (NYSE) (53%); 7203 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



61 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: Genius Designer

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
WHO will be the Next Big Thing? That's the question that perennially fuels the rave of creativity, stitchery and circus nerves that is New York Fashion Week. It's the tease that attracts the thousands of designers, buyers, editors, photographers, stylists, models, bookers, trend forecasters, sharp-tongued blogosphere sibyls and the strung-out accountants who attempt to ride herd on all of the above to the Bryant Park tents twice a year. It's the dream we all dream of a sartorial Lotto win. 
 Even with an economy dazed and numbed, the United States remains the world's largest market for fashion, and New York is unquestionably the center of the global fashion image machine. True, consumer pocketbooks seem to be on temporary lockdown. But the assembly line keeps cranking all the same; the maw must be fed. 
 But who will do it? Cast a seasoned eye across a landscape ornamented with scores of shows during the next nine days (officially Fashion Week runs today through Sept. 12) and what's immediately apparent is that while fashion is healthily supplied with journeymen there is no clear visionary, no obvious genius in sight. 
 ''The business is much too safe,'' Julie Gilhart, the fashion director of Barney's New York, said last week. ''There's just too much money at stake.'' Thus, we should not expect a season in which designers go out on a limb and propel models down catwalks in get-ups concocted from seaweed or kitchen utensils. (Both have actually happened.) This is not to suggest, as Ms. Gilhart also noted, that New York is suffering from talent shortfall -- far from it. Among many others, we have the team of Proenza Schouler, with their knack for making middle-of-the-road design seem indie and cool. We have cartoonish pop cultural gadflies like Isaac Mizrahi, and chaste classicists like Francisco Costa at Calvin Klein. We have elder statesman like Oscar de la Renta and Ralph Lauren, who, far from seeming moss-covered and passe, have been more alert to shifts in the cultural marketplace than some who were zygotes when those men first hit professional stride. 
 We have loopy design theoreticians like threeAsFour, holding up the fort for Downtown Style. And -- back from a barkeep hiatus in Majorca that followed his Big Apple flameout--we have Miguel Adrover, the man who captured the imagination of the fashion establishment with clothes made from a recycled mattress and Yankees caps.
 Still, there is no world-beater. There are no names that suggest clear-cut potential both to reshape fashion and somehow with it the global culture of style. There is no one, to take the obvious example, likely to replace Yves Saint Laurent, who died in June and seemingly took with him not merely a genius for conjuring glamour from whole cloth, but also for draping his designs to suit the mood of his time. 
 What seems disorienting about this absence is that fashion is no longer a discipline of interest mainly to female consumers and a cult of aesthetes. Like it or not, fashion has become something larger, a viral cultural force that sometimes seems only incidentally concerned with clothes. Cocteau wasn't kidding when he said style is a simple way of saying complicated things -- a point the United States Olympic Committee clearly noted (American teams may not have dominated in the medals, but in the parade of nations they killed the competition in jauntily classic Polo Ralph Lauren uniforms), as do politicos. Were the Dead Sea scrolls subjected to more exegesis than Michelle Obama's floral print sheath at the Democratic National Convention in Denver? (Thakoon, by the way.) The voices of the blogosphere say, No.
 Yet, contradictory as this may seem, the notion of a Next Big Thing in fashion may itself be culturally discordant. As in film, music and other arts, consumers have wearied of big names and labels. Except on TV, they are bored with diktats, with taste legislated by self-appointed ''experts'' and with camphor-scented archaisms like ''stars.'' 
 They have lost the desire to partake of media in hunks: an entire musical album, or a single artist's whole career. 
 The D.I.Y. ethos prevalent among young consumers has led to an overall relaxation of the boundaries of style. Given that a 12-year-old with a MySpace page and access to digital ''mood boards'' or electronic makeover applications (girltech.com) can become an instant authority on fashion, is there truly a need for the dictators of the front row, the editors who once chose the stars?
 ''No longer is fashion force-fed to the consumer,'' said Robert Burke, a former fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman who is now a luxury goods consultant. ''They don't have to wait for magazines and editors to tell them what they must buy and must have.''
 Fun as it is to indulge in the game show fantasy retailed by programs like ''Project Runway,'' with its winners and losers and dubious jackpots, it is probably time to face the truth about the In or Out divide, which is that it is subjectively judged and decreed by a posse of Heathers. 
 ''I really never understood the next big thing,'' said Kim Hastreiter, an editor of Paper magazine. ''How can someone be a genius this season and next season they're not?''
 She added: ''This completely drives me crazy. Everyone can be raving one season about how great a designer is and then the next season they're dumped.'' 
 People do not become ''un-brilliant,'' Ms. Hastreiter said. ''Designers really suffer from this because you get lifted up and put in this place and then someone else comes along and is put in that place and it's never really about the work.''
 Passionate fandom, the widespread devotion that also helps invest a star with authority, seems quaint today. Every anonymous nobody with a social networking page or a ''fun wall'' can build a cohort, whether imaginary or virtual. Appended to the snapshots of everyday people and their sartorial innovations on blogs like Scott Schuman's The Sartorialist (thesartorialist.blogspot.com) are kite-tails of commentary from scores or even hundreds of commentators, who hold highly evolved (and occasionally creepy) views about what fashion is and should be. 
 In a lot of ways, the life and career of Saint Laurent are instructive and also helpful in understanding why it is futile and also probably dumb to sit around waiting for his avatar. ''That world is gone,'' his former partner Pierre Berge said days before Saint Laurent's death.
 By that Mr. Berge meant, as Jill D'Alessandro, an associate curator at the de Young Museum in San Francisco, recently explained, that ''fashion was more about artistic and creative output'' when Saint Laurent held his first runway show in 1962 than it was about celebrity name-checking and the creation of the latest ''It'' bag. ''He was adapted to his times,'' Ms. D'Alessandro said. ''He was someone who wanted to help with social change. The world was also changing a lot then, and he very consciously wanted to be part of that.'' 
 The extent to which he succeeded should be clear come November when the de Young presents a full-scale Saint Laurent retrospective.
 The film director Jean Renoir once wrote a letter to Ingrid Bergman, motivated by what I am not quite sure, in which he cautioned the actress against falling for the hype axiomatically attached to the next big thing. ''The cult of great ideas is dangerous and may destroy the real basis for great achievements, that is the daily, humble work within the framework of a profession,'' Renoir wrote.
 And it's that quote I plan to take with me into the Fashion Week fray, with a hope that the onus of expectation placed on any single designer (even New York's favorite son, Marc Jacobs) will eventually yield to something more flexible, plural and modern, to use a hated fashion term. The next big thing may not be a single person at all but a yeastier and more broadly based network of shared information and connections.
 It's an optimistic thought, and none too reasonable, given the financial stakes. But there has to be a role for fashion more interesting than producing a few hype artists whose greatest skill is slinging a dumb It bag off the licorice-whip arm of this season's hot socialite.
 ''Very few people have this ability to be the great designers and also generate the necessary buzz and excitement,'' Ms. Gilhart of Barneys said. ''It's a trap.'' So formulated around star-creation right now, she added, that the business may actually be ''closing out a lot of opportunities for people who are original and good and who actually have something to say.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FILL IN THE BLANK: In Milan, Miuccia Prada was in the center of the picture receiving the applause. Who will win the acclaim in New York? (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES FROM A PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES) (pg.G1)
AT THE TENTS Clockwise from above: Lazaro Hernandez and Jack McCollough will show their Proenza Schouler collection on Sept. 8 at 5 p.m.
Marc Jacobs will present his on Sept. 8 at 9 p.m.
Doo-Ri Chung will show her Doo.Ri collection Sept. 10 at 5 p.m.
Miguel Adrover's turn is Sept. 7 at 8 p.m.
Francisco Costa will show Calvin Klein on Sept. 11 at 4 p.m.
and Oscar de la Renta will send models down the catwalk on Sept. 10 at 1 p.m. (TOP FOUR PHOTOS, FROM LEFT, BY DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/WIREIMAGE
CHRIS MOORE/CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES
THOMAS CONCORDIA/WIREIMAGE
 AND EVAN AGOSTINI/GETTY IMAGES. ABOVE, PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT GRIES/GETTY IMAGES, LEFT, AND FOR GETTY IMAGES FOR IMG, RIGHT) (pg.G8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); LOTTERIES (55%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (57%); MARC JACOBS (57%); RALPH LAUREN (57%); MIUCCIA PRADA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



62 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BASICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Free Music Downloads Without the Legal Peril

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

 BODY:
EVERYBODY likes free music but nobody likes to be sued. For people seeking free music online, therein lies the rub.
 It's simple to get free music from online services like LimeWire, but it could also bring an unfriendly letter from a lawyer.
 Dave Dederer feels your pain. As a songwriter and former guitarist for the Presidents of the United States of America, the owner of a record label and an Internet music entrepreneur, he is especially suited to assess the rights of artists, fans and distributors. After a close study of the laws that regulate his business, one thing is clear, he says: ''It's a swirling cesspool.''
 The line between legal and illegal is murky even to Mr. Dederer. His online music service, nuTsie (an anagram of iTunes), pays licensing fees to artists. In the shifting legal landscape, however, someday that might not be enough, he said. 
 ''They are cashing our checks, and that is all we feel like we can do for now,'' he said. Such uncertainty may work in the favor of fans of free music. Because the law tends to lag behind the technological advances, there are gray areas where free music, while not clearly legal, is not clearly illegal. People can take advantage of these gaps with little fear of a lawsuit, but they will have to keep abreast of legal developments to make sure they remain on the right side of the line.
 The (Shifting) Law of the Land
 The legal concept regarding copying is called fair use. But what is fair to do without the copyright holder's permission? The legal precedent that lets people transfer CDs to their iPods was established in Sony Corporation of America v. Universal City Studios, known as the Betamax case. Essentially, the ruling said that people could record copyrighted material for personal, noncommercial use.
 But that's where it gets tricky. Suppose you have a vinyl record and you want to hear it on your iPod. Does the recording have to come from your own album, or can you download a copy from LimeWire, which provides access to a whole world of legal and illegal content? After all, you have paid for the right to hear the song; does it matter where your specific copy comes from? 
 ''It's a gray area; there has never been a court case covering it. I would argue it's fair use,'' said Fred von Lohmann, a senior staff lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a free speech advocacy group. He added, ''I am willing to admit a court might see it differently.''
 Because the rule is blurry, chances are low that you will be zinged for it. The Recording Industry Association of America and the record companies are going after the most egregious cases, in which people offer hundreds of copyrighted songs for downloading, they say. 
 Reports of the association suing a woman over 24 songs are technically correct, but it was because of a quirk of the law. The woman in question had more than 1,000 songs in her shared directory, the association says. Rather than file paperwork to prove ownership of all of them, the association sued over just a portion.
 Where to Get It
 Some free music sources are, without question, legitimate. Apple's iTunes, which has helped to popularize paid downloading, gives away a song by a new artist every week. A different free iTunes song is given away at Starbucks stores each week, as well. Amazon offers free downloads on its MP3 page. Rolling Stone's Web site has free MP3s on its Rock & Roll Daily page. Artistdirect.com offers more than 200 free downloads, as does MP3.com. Many smaller labels, like Sub Pop, Dischord and Fat Wreck Chords, among others, also give away music.
 There are other sources for free, legal downloads besides individual labels. Creative Commons is a site that helps copyright holders decide which rights they want to share -- for instance making songs free for personal use and distribution, but not for sampling or commercial use. The five-year-old organization said it had licensed about 1 million songs, and lists them at creativecommons.org/legalmusicforvideos. One user of Creative Commons, the eclectic radio station WFMU-FM, posts legal in-studio performances at freemusicarchive.org. 
 Another method that is unlikely to get you in trouble is recording songs from Internet radio. While trouble is unlikely, it can't be entirely ruled out, because some lawyers say it's legal under the Home Recording Act of 1992, while others say the act specifically prohibits digital recording. Either way, if you record songs for your own use, no one will know you have them. Many online stations have high-quality audio feeds, including Mr. Dederer's company, nuTsie, as well as FlyTunes, SpiralFrog and Jango.
 Recording songs from Internet radio requires a streaming audio recorder and a sound editor. Windows users can download Audacity free from Sourceforge.net. The application will record any audio that plays over your computer's speakers, save it and export it to iTunes or any other music player. Unfortunately, the simplest option for Mac users is more costly: WireTap Studio, from Ambrosia Software, has a 30-day free trial but then costs $69.
 What You Can Do With It
 Since the songs are free, it should be O.K. not only to download them to your PC or MP3 player, but also to upload them to sites where other people can retrieve them, right? Not according to Mark Fisher, a digital rights lawyer at Fish & Richardson, a law firm in Boston that specializes in intellectual property. 
 ''The fact the artist is providing it for free doesn't take away the copyright,'' Mr. Fisher said. Just because the artists give it away does not mean that users can -- unless the artist gives explicit permission to share the files. 
 But not so fast, says Mr. Von Lohmann. One of the other tenets of fair use is economic harm. If you pass along a song that the artist has given away, the artist loses no income, so it could be fair use, he said.
 It's a case the recording industry group is unlikely to bring, because even the bands are usually unaware they need to give pass-around permission. Typical of many artists, the band Wilco, which has often offered giveaways, not only expects but encourages downloaders to share, even though it has never posted explicit permission. 
 ''We hope you won't sell it, but you can use it, listen to it, put it on an iPod, make a CD, share it with your friends, whatever,'' said Tony Margherita, Wilco's manager.
 Granted, going semi-legit is not as easy as firing up LimeWire and taking all the songs you want. All of these gray-area sites require some sifting, choices are limited and sometimes a lot of work is required. You probably won't find all of your old favorites by the biggest artists, but you won't hear from their lawyers, either.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Circuits pages on Thursday about legal music downloads misspelled the surname of a digital rights lawyer who commented on the legality of uploading free songs for others to retrieve. He is Mark Fischer, not Mark Fisher.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (90%); MUSIC (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); SONG WRITING (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (56%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL CITY STUDIOS INC (53%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



63 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Historic Fort Sustains a Breach

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
TICONDEROGA, N.Y. -- Perched on a wind-swept bluff above Lake Champlain, Fort Ticonderoga has a timeless presence. Its thick stone walls appear impenetrable, more than two centuries after being contested, variously, by French, British and American troops.
This summer, the national historic landmark -- called Fort Ti for short -- began its 100th season as an attraction open to the public with two causes for celebration: the unveiling of a splashy new education center, and an increase in visitors, reversing a long decline.
But instead of celebrating, its caretakers issued an S.O.S., warning that the fort, one of the state's most important historic sites, was struggling for survival, largely because of a breach between the fort's greatest benefactor -- an heir of the Mars candy fortune -- and its executive director.
The problem is money: The fort had a shortfall of $2.5 million for the education center. The president of the board that governs the fort, which is owned by a nonprofit organization, said in an internal memo this summer that the site would be ''essentially broke'' by the end of the year. The memo proposed a half-dozen solutions, including the sale of artwork from the group's collection. 
''The fort is facing a financial crisis, which puts its very existence in question,'' the president, Peter S. Paine Jr., said in the memo, which first surfaced in local newspapers last month.
The economic troubles are compounded by the recent falling-out between the fort's longtime executive director, Nicholas Westbrook, and benefactors the fort had come to rely upon: Forrest E. Mars Jr. and his wife, Deborah Clarke Mars, a Ticonderoga native. It was the couple's idea to build the education center.
In a February e-mail message that ended up being reported by the news media, Mr. Mars told Mr. Westbrook that the ''ride is over'' and, in case there was any doubt about what he meant, that the couple would ''not be writing any further checks.'' He chastised Mr. Westbrook for making ''nasty comments about Mars money'' and accused him of ''not communicating and running away from decisions.''
At the July opening of the new center, officially called the Deborah Clarke Mars Education Center, Mrs. Mars, who had abruptly resigned as the fort's board president in late January, was conspicuously absent. In recent weeks, board members have squabbled over who is to blame for the rupture as they try to solve the fort's pressing financial problems.
''Running off our chief benefactors and putting us in this situation in the 12th hour before the opening of the new education center is unforgivable,'' said one board member, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the awkwardness of continuing to work with Mr. Westbrook.
For his part, Mr. Westbrook, who serves at the pleasure of the board of trustees, said in an interview on Aug. 20 that he had no immediate plans to leave, explaining that it had been his dream since the age of 6, when he first visited Fort Ticonderoga, to one day lead it. He has been executive director for 20 years.
In a recent news release, however, Mr. Paine announced that Mr. Westbrook ''has reiterated to the board his desire to retire in the course of next year as part of the planned, orderly succession.''
Mr. Westbrook declined to comment on his relationship with the Marses, saying only that they have ''been enormously generous and supportive, and I consider them very, very good friends.'' But of Mrs. Mars's tenure as the fort's board president, he said, ''To be a hands-on president of this organization from a house in Wyoming or from the south of France is very difficult.''
It is not clear what prompted the breach between Mr. Westbrook and the Marses, but Mr. Mars's e-mail message suggested that perhaps the relationship had grown too cozy. ''I think you should remember,'' he wrote to Mr. Westbrook, ''that: a) Deb and I helped pay to send your son to Northwood,'' a boarding school in Lake Placid, N.Y. He continued: ''b) we offered and had your other son here in Wyoming for an apprenticeship working with iron and steel; c) your vacations to Antarctica and other ones were paid for by us.''
Efforts to reach Mr. Mars, who is often described in news reports as a reclusive billionaire, were unsuccessful. A caretaker at the family's ranch in Wyoming said that he and Mrs. Mars were away. Mr. Mars did not respond to messages left at Mars Inc., where he retired as chief executive in 1999.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Paine, the new board president, said that he ''supported both Mr. Westbrook and the Marses.''
From the perspective of some board members, the friendship had seemed a godsend -- that is, until it soured. While some 500 people made donations to the $23 million construction project, which included the new education center and upgrading utilities throughout the fort, the Marses contributed well over half the cost.
''The fact that they left,'' said Mr. Paine of the Marses, ''was unhappy and unfortunate and regrettable. There was no formal pledge by them to cover the $2.5 million, but they had been extremely generous and the hope was that they would fund at least some of that as part of their ongoing support. Their departure was not helpful.''
The airing of internal disagreements has unsettled the fort's supporters, among them descendants of William Ferris Pell, who bought the fort's ruins in 1820 and built a country estate, called the Pavilion, a cannon shot away on the shores of Lake Champlain. In 1909, another generation of the family restored the fort and opened it to the public.
''The fort has always been a low-key private institution, and the Marses are obsessively private people, and the fact that this has happened has caused a lot of distress,'' said Deborah Pell Dunning, who visited her grandparents at the Pavilion as a child and who is writing a book about Fort Ticonderoga and the Pell family.
Since a meeting of the board of trustees in July, the fort has narrowed the $2.5 million gap to $1 million by dipping into its endowment. ''We used our rainy-day money, but we need that money back because that's what we use to run the business,'' Mr. Paine said.
The shortfall may not seem like much, Mr. Paine said, but for an institution with an endowment of less than $5 million, ''that is an enormous number.'' In addition, the fort has an outstanding construction loan of $1.7 million.
Among the strategies for getting the fort back on sound financial footing, as outlined in Mr. Paine's memo, is the sale of artwork. The fort owns several paintings, including one by Thomas Cole, and numerous valuable artifacts. The most extreme solution on the list was closing the fort, although Mr. Paine said it was ''designed primarily to get people's attention.''
As a state-chartered museum, however, the fort is subject to regulations of the New York State Board of Regents. A new regulation relates specifically to the sale of artwork and forbids museums and historic sites to use proceeds from such sales to cover operating expenses or to pay down debt. Rather, they can be used only to acquire new works or conserve existing artwork.
Mr. Paine makes the case that the historic structures that make up the fort are the ''collection.'' And work on the education center amounted to ''conservation'' of that collection since it entailed upgrading utilities and combing the grounds for additional artifacts. Archaeologists found, among other things, an eight-inch rosary dating to the 1750s inside the fort's original ovens.
The education center, while new construction, restores the ''original skyline'' to that of the 1750s, as Mr. Westbrook likes to say, in that it is based on the floor plan of a warehouse for gunpowder that stood on the site.
But Cliff Siegfried, director of the New York State Museum and the State Department of Education's assistant commissioner for museums, said that Mr. Paine's line of reasoning was problematic. ''There have been a number of buildings and sites that have tried to make that argument, and we've resisted that argument each time,'' he said.
Still, he insisted that the Regents were committed to the fort's survival. ''Its importance to the economy of that region and the history of New York is obvious,'' he said. ''We're going to work with them to make sure that it doesn't fail. This is a hiccup in its history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Fort Ticonderoga Fife and Drum Corps on the grounds of the fort, which was built in the 1700s by the French military and restored in the 1900s.
The fort overlooks Lake Champlain at a strategic point where it narrows and where the shore of Vermont is close by.
The fort owns several paintings and numerous valuable artifacts. Officials, worried about money, are considering selling some.(pg. B1)
This summer, the fort's 100th season as an attraction open to the public, there was an increase in visitors, reversing a long decline.
 The fort's executive director, Nicholas Westbrook, at an education center named for Deborah Clarke Mars (as in Mars candy).(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) MAP: Fort Ticonderoga faced a shortfall of about $2.5 million. Map details area of Fort Ticonderoga.(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



64 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Facing Deadly Fish Virus, Chile Introduces Reforms

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
With a deadly virus threatening its fish farms, Chile has introduced measures to improve the sanitary conditions of its salmon industry and reduce the levels of antibiotics used to treat the fish.
 Chile exports more salmon to the United States than to any other country besides Japan, but it has drawn sharp criticism from environmentalists and other experts in recent months as a virus has killed millions of its salmon. The illness, infectious salmon anemia, or I.S.A., continues to spread, underscoring how the crowded conditions of Chile's fish farms and other sanitary concerns are giving rise to a variety of fungal and bacterial fish ailments. 
 Environmentalists and industry officials applauded the Chilean government's efforts, which were first announced last week, to clean up the industry and reduce antibiotic use. Hugo Lavados, Chile's economy minister, said that after almost four months of study, a government panel identified steps that would ease conditions in crowded salmon pens and provide greater protection against the introduction of high-risk illnesses in salmon eggs. The economy minister also noted that the ''intensive'' use of antibiotics, although legal in Chile, needed to change and that a specific plan for lowering levels would be finalized by December. 
 ''This is a step in the right direction,'' said Dr. Felipe C. Cabello, a professor in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at New York Medical College in Valhalla who has studied Chile's fishing industry. Dr. Cabello has said that Chilean salmon producers are using an estimated 70 to 300 times more antibiotics to produce a ton of salmon in Chile than are their counterparts in Norway. He has been the subject of repeated attacks by Chile's salmon industry for making those claims.
 Alex Munoz, vice president for South America for Oceanos, a group seeking to protect marine environments, said, ''Unsafe use of antibiotics in salmon pens threatens Chile's oceans and access to the U.S. seafood market.'' He argued that the misguided use of antibiotics could increase bacterial resistance to them. ''We are pleased to see the Chilean government act.''
 Chile's salmon industry, the country's third largest export industry, has been undergoing growing pains as it has expanded to meet a rising world demand for fish. Mr. Lavados, the economy minister, noted that the industry needed to adapt to grow in a sustainable way. In 1990, Chile produced 28,810 tons of salmon and trout. Last year it produced 664,661 tons.
 ''The development of this sector can only continue to grow and be successful if the private sector and government continue to work in a responsible and coordinated way,'' Mr. Lavados said in a statement.
 The crowded conditions have given rise to illnesses and stressed the fish, making them more susceptible to catching viruses, experts say. Concern about the I.S.A. virus caused the American supermarket chain Safeway to reduce Chilean salmon purchases in late March, soon after The New York Times published an article about the virus and concerns about sanitary conditions in the industry. 
 The virus is not harmful to humans and cannot be treated with antibiotics. But Safeway cited concern that the virus was ''impacting the quality of the product'' as a main reason for its decision. Brian Dowling, a company spokesman, said this week that Safeway was continuing to buy Chilean salmon from only one company, which he would not name, and was refusing to buy salmon from two regions where 95 percent of Chile's salmon is produced and where the virus has been concentrated.
 Marine Harvest, a Norwegian company operating fish farms in Chile, continues to be the most affected by the spread of the virus. The company already lost Safeway as a customer for its Chilean salmon, and the disease is expected to lower its production in Chile by 30 percent this year, said Alvaro Jimenez Seminario, Marine Harvest's managing director there.
 The virus is affecting 2 percent of Chile's salmon farms, according to SalmonChile, an industry group. ''We need to be aware that the virus will be present in Chile for a long time,'' said Rodrigo Infante, the general manager of SalmonChile.
 Antibiotics in livestock and farmed fish have become a worldwide concern. But Mr. Infante said the Chilean salmon industry relied on the drugs to fight a particular bacteria, rickettsia, which is carried by sea lice and has long plagued the industry. ''It has been difficult to find an effective vaccine, and when preventative measures fail it needs to be treated with antibiotics,'' he said.
 Environmentalists insist that Chile's industry needs to be better regulated, not only to ensure that its growth will not damage the marine environment in Chile, but also to protect consumers in the United States and elsewhere. 
 American regulators do little screening on their own. The Food and Drug Administration tested less than 2 percent of all seafood imports in 2006. 
 In 2007, the F.D.A. said it tested 40 samples of Chilean salmon, out of 114,320 net tons sent from Chile. None tested positive for prohibited substances, including some banned antibiotics.
 Still, the F.D.A. rejected salmon shipments from Chile from one company in April, citing unsanitary conditions, and from a different Chilean company in October for listeria, a potentially deadly bacterium, according to information available on the administration's Web site.
 During a visit to Chile in April, Food and Drug Administration inspectors found that at least one Chilean company was using ivermectin, an antiparasitic drug whose use is restricted in aquaculture in the United States, to try to control sea lice, said William Hubbard, a former F.D.A. associate commissioner who said he had spoken to a senior administration food official about the trip.
 ''Apparently the Chileans were not aware of the U.S. rules,'' said Mr. Hubbard, who now advises the Alliance for a Stronger F.D.A., a coalition of industry and consumer groups. Chile's salmon industry denied that any illegal drugs were used.
 The F.D.A. confirmed that it visited several Chilean seafood companies this year, including some salmon facilities, but did not discuss its findings. The F.D.A. does about 125 inspections a year of facilities across the world that produce food for the American market. There are some 200,000 registered facilities in other countries, Mr. Hubbard said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of a transcription error, a picture caption on Thursday with an article about Chile's reforms to improve health and environmental conditions in its farmed-salmon industry mistranslated an advertisement in Spanish critical of the industry's lack of regulation. The ad says salmon are grown ''at all costs'' -- not ''on all coasts.'' 
 Because of an editing error, the article misstated the name of an environmental group that reacted positively to Chile's reforms. It is South America for Oceana, not South America for Oceanos. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sign on a bus in Castro, Chile, says salmon grow on all coasts, meaning that the industry is growing without proper regulations. It is part of a campaign by pro-environmental Oxfam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO PInA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (91%); FINFISH FARMING (91%); VIRUSES (90%); AQUACULTURE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BACTERIA (89%); FISHES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SEAFOOD (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); IMMUNOLOGY (71%); BIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



65 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Canada Offers a Downbeat Outlook

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- The Bank of Canada held its key interest rate steady on Wednesday, and while it gave no indication of future interest rate moves, it was more downbeat on the prospects for United States and Canadian economic growth. 
 ''The bank judges that the current level of the target for the overnight rate remains appropriately accommodative,'' it said in a statement outlining its decision to keep the overnight rate at 3 percent.
 The move was widely expected. All but one of Canada's primary securities dealers had forecast the bank would hold rates steady.
 Also as expected, the bank was slightly more dovish in its tone, possibly leaving the door open to resume a rate-cutting cycle later this year after staying on the sidelines since April. It highlighted a concern that the United States economy could perform worse than the 1.5 percent growth it had projected for next year.
 ''There is an increased risk of a more pronounced interplay between weakness in the U.S. economy and tightness in credit conditions that could affect the U.S. outlook for 2009,'' it said.
 Canada's economy has fared worse than the United States economy so far this year but typically feels the fallout from any economic trouble south of the border.
 Domestic growth in July was below its expectations but that it remained near the economy's production potential. The bank had projected third-quarter growth in Canada of 1.3 percent.
 On the other hand, it said the American economy and global financial markets have so far evolved roughly in line with expectations.
 The recent decline in commodity prices, triggered by a slowdown in global growth, has been a factor driving the Canadian dollar lower .
 The global weakness and the weaker currency will have ''opposing effects'' on Canadian growth.
 Growth in July is slightly lower than expected but is still near production potential, and domestic demand remains strong, the bank said.
 It repeated its view that total and core inflation would converge at the 2 percent goal in the second half of 2009 and that the temporary spike in total inflation between now and early 2009 would be lower than projected. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CURRENCIES (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



66 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Fancy-Schmancy Kids, Now Much Schmancier

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
In the past 18 years the rich have gotten richer, income inequality has widened and the middle class has grown ever smaller and more squeezed. 
 And that's just the teenagers. 
 The new incarnation of ''Beverly Hills 90210'' made its splashy two-hour debut on Tuesday adjusted for inflation. As in MTV's ''Hills'' and CW's ''Gossip Girl'' and ''Privileged,'' the conceit of CW's ''90210'' isn't fish out of water so much as fish moving into an even bigger swimming pool.
 On the first season of ''Beverly Hills 90210,'' in 1990, an average Midwestern family, the Walshes, moved to California from Minnesota, and the kids had to confront -- and assimilate -- Beverly Hills privilege and snobbery. 
 The 2.0 versions of the 90210 family, the Wilsons, come from Kansas, but they are hardly outsiders. The father, Harry (Rob Estes), is the son of a wealthy, hard-tippling former actress, Tabitha (Jessica Walter). He is a prodigal Beverly Hills prince who returns to his old high school as the new principal and moves right back into the family mansion, a Renaissance-style villa. 
 The wealthy on television are now really, really wealthy, and anyone who doesn't have a beach house and a butler might as well be on welfare. Class tensions divide not just the haves and have-nots, but the haves and have-mores: upper-middle-class heroes contending with classmates whose financial resources and social connections are fabulous and endless. 
 When the Wilsons' teenage daughter Annie (Shenae Grimes) is asked out by a handsome schoolmate, she is dazzled not by his sports car, but by the private jet he uses to whisk her to an after-school date in San Francisco. ''That's what kids here do,'' Annie tells her mother. ''They have planes. And they go places, and they don't tell their parents because it's no big deal.'' 
 The mom, Debbie (Lori Loughlin), is appalled that Annie didn't clear the trip with her, but not by the date itself -- perhaps because she too has made a shift, hers into a glamorous career in fashion photography.
 The Wilsons' adopted son, Dixon (Tristan Wilds, ''The Wire''), is African-American and blends in even more seamlessly than his sister.
 George Orwell described his family as ''lower upper middle'' to capture the niggling class differences of prewar Britain. Post-Reagan America has a similar pecking order; what passes for middle class on some of the more popular teen dramas is actually lower upper middle. 
 Dan and Jenny, the supposedly average kids who serve as social foils to the ultrarich of ''Gossip Girl,'' are not Wal-Mart shoppers. They live in fashionable Brooklyn, and their father is a former rock musician and art-gallery owner. 
 Megan (JoAnna Garcia) is a world-class journalist and the heroine of ''Privileged,'' which makes its debut on Tuesday. She is too classy to work for a tabloid and ends up a private tutor to spoiled, willful teenage twins, the granddaughters of an art-collecting cosmetics mogul in Palm Beach, Fla. Megan is more Baby Jane Holzer than Jane Eyre; she's a lovely, refined Yale graduate who was raised in nearby Fort Lauderdale but seems quite at ease in high society. 
 It's quite a change from the days of Ozzie and Harriet and even the Huxtables of ''The Cosby Show,'' back when the most notable young people on television belonged to an amorphous but comfortable middle class. Upper-class kids were rare, marginal characters who furthered a story line by being snooty or pathetic -- poor little rich girls. 
 After the Reagan revolution restored Gilded Age values, plutocratic wealth became fashionable on prime-time soaps like ''Dynasty'' and ''Falcon Crest.'' And though ''Beverly Hills 90210'' was the first to put teenagers in Mercedes and Gucci, that flame was passed to shows like ''The OC,'' ''The Hills'' and, more recently, ''Gossip Girl.'' 
 They don't require subtitles. Even the most humble viewers, tutored by television, magazines and Web sites about heiresses and rap stars, are cozily familiar with the iconography of wealth and allusions to the Hotel du Cap, the Hamptons and Tuscany. 
 It could be that adolescents, like their parents, simply do not want to identify with ordinary folk. The economy is bad, but it's still an aspirational age. Some economists argue that many lower-income Americans, young and old, vote against their own financial interests -- opposing tax increases on the wealthy or a national health-insurance plan -- because they identify with people who have more money and hope and even assume that someday they too will reach those lofty tax brackets. 
 Teenagers are known for having eating disorders caused in part by body-image distortion. Increasingly some seem to suffer from income dysmorphia. Sex and beauty could also be to blame; sex sells, but it is oversold on prime-time television. Money has more elusive allure.
 ''Here, it's the dress you loved from Maxfield,'' the ''90210'' school queen bee says, handing Annie a big shopping bag from a fancy clothing store on Melrose Avenue. ''I bought it for you anyway because that's what friends do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Shenae Grimes and Dustin Milligan in ''90210''
above, from left, Brian Hallisay, JoAnna Garcia and Kristina Apgar in ''Privileged.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL DESMOND/CW) (pg.E1)
Michael Steger, left, and Tristan Wilds in ''90210''
top right, Leighton Meester of ''Gossip Girl''
and Anne Archer, left, and Ashley Newbrough in ''Privileged.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL DESMOND/CW
JAMIE TRUEBLOOD/CW
 GIOVANNI RUFINO/CW) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (76%); KANSAS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Beverly Hills 90210 (TV Program)>; Gossip Girl (TV Program)>; Beverly Hills 90210 (TV Program)>; Gossip Girl (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



67 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 591 words

PERSON: Calvin L. Beale, 

HEADLINE: Calvin L. Beale, 85, Rural Demographer

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Calvin L. Beale, a government demographer who was among the first to recognize the transformation of America's rural landscape from farms to a mixture of farms, industry and vacation homes, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 85.
A niece, Carol Rudolph, said the cause was colon cancer. 
Mr. Beale had worked at the federal Agriculture Department for more than half a century, becoming a senior demographer there.
An unpretentious man in a profession not noted for its glamour, Mr. Beale -- his highest academic degree was a master's in sociology from the University of Wisconsin -- still developed a cult following among his peers. They marveled not just at his mastery of the theoretical tools, but also his first-hand feel for rural America.
He traveled to 2,500 counties (of 3,140) around the country and knew everything from the most common surnames in a given place to the kind of leaves carved above the courthouse steps. Kenneth M. Johnson, a professor of sociology at the University of New Hampshire, called Mr. Beale ''the Michael Jordan of rural research.''
Mr. Beale's greatest single professional contribution, Professor Johnson said, was figuring out in the 1960s that decades of decline in rural population were being reversed in some areas. Mr. Beale saw that hydroelectric dams in the Ozarks created reservoirs that in turn drew vacationers, some of whom stayed; he noticed industries like textiles, meatpacking and chemicals moving into areas that had been entirely agricultural.
When confronted with Mr. Beale's reports of a population rebound, Professor Johnson said: ''People didn't believe it. It was so contrary to 150 years of American history.'' When the first of the new data came out from the 1970 census, Mr. Beale was vindicated.
Mr. Beale, who is survived by three nephews in addition to his niece, was often a mentor to younger colleagues, like John Cromartie, who eventually worked with him at the Agriculture Department.
Mr. Cromartie, a geographer with the department's resource and rural economics division, said Mr. Beale's development of population theories came from his travels as much as from any computer model. Most demographers, Mr. Cromartie said, ''start with the theories and test them.'' But, he added, Mr. Beale's on-the-ground knowledge of the overlooked byways of the country allowed him to ''start from the bottom and show everyone the big picture from that perspective.''
Often it was the quirky or forgotten people that drew the demographer's eye. Sprinkled throughout ''A Taste of the Country,'' a collection of Mr. Beale's writings published by the Rand Corporation in 1990, are glimpses of little-noticed history.
He wrote, for example, of a mixed-race people called Melungeons, reputedly of white, black and Indian descent. They are found from the Tidewater areas to the Piedmont and the Allegheny-Cumberland Plateaus. ''Some are landless, some landed,'' he wrote. ''But they are all marginal men -- wary until recently of being black, aspiring where possible to be white and subject to rejection and scorn on either hand.''
Another chapter is devoted entirely to a Creole fire company in Mobile City, Ala., founded in 1819 and still operating when Mr. Beale visited in 1963.
Correction: October 8, 2008, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Sept. 4 about Calvin L. Beale, a government demographer who was among the first to recognize transformations in rural America, misstated the date of his death. It was Sept. 2, not Sept. 1.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Calvin L. Beale in 1982. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TERESA ZABALA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); HISTORY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (65%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (65%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); COLORECTAL CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



68 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Economy Stays Stuck As Consumers Cut Back

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The nation's economy failed to pick up speed in August and the final days of July, as rising prices and a weak job market prompted consumers to reduce spending and shop at discount stores to try to conserve cash.
 Economic activity stayed ''weak, soft or subdued'' across the country, according to the Federal Reserve Bank's beige book, a regular snapshot of the economy. The latest edition of the survey, released on Wednesday, signaled that the economy spent the summer in a rut, with consumers feeling little relief from the government's tax rebates. 
 Although gasoline and oil prices began to subside in August, many businesses reported that they felt squeezed by relatively expensive raw materials. In at least half of the 12 Fed districts -- including Atlanta, Boston, Dallas and New York -- businesses said they had been forced to raise prices, potentially stoking inflation faster.
 ''The Fed found a whole bunch of different adjectives to describe weakness in growth, and a whole bunch of adjectives to describe price pressures,'' said Ethan Harris, chief economist of the investment bank Lehman Brothers. ''What it's describing is basically stagflation.''
 Officials at the Fed have been more circumspect in their outlook, cautioning that while activity will probably slow for the rest of the year, the economy will avoid the mix of fierce inflation and stagnant growth of the 1970s. 
 Still, the combination of weak spending and higher prices last month reinforced expectations that Fed policy makers would keep interest rates steady when they met on Sept. 16. Fed officials, including the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, have signaled a determination to control inflation, but they cannot raise interest rates as jobs dry up, house values continue to fall and banks confront a still-treacherous financial landscape.
 Indeed, the beige book painted a gloomy portrait of the economy. To say the least, August was not an easy time for businesses to raise prices. Consumer spending slowed, or stayed slow, in nearly every district, according to the report. When Americans did shop, they opted for big-box discount stores and nonbranded products. 
 ''Consumers were concentrating on food, staples and other necessary items while reducing spending on discretionary items,'' the report said. Sales of clothing, electronics and jewelry declined in several regions, and demand for furniture and many household products dropped sharply.
 ''The consumer story does not look very encouraging,'' said Brian A. Bethune, an economist at the research firm Global Insight. ''Consumer spending remains weak. Auto sales were universally weak.''
 With the government still pondering a second round of tax rebates, there appeared to be little on the horizon that could lead Americans to start spending again. Consumer spending declined in July after adjusting for inflation, the Commerce Department reported last week. Fewer purchases will have a substantial ripple effect throughout the economy; spending usually accounts for more than two-thirds of overall economic growth. 
 Wages rose moderately in August. The real estate market, however, worsened or stayed soft, with most districts reporting less demand for both residential and commercial properties. And activity at manufacturing businesses declined, despite an unexpected rise in demand at factories. 
 In July, factory orders rose 1.3 percent, more than economists had forecast, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday. The increase comes after a 2.1 percent rise in June.
 Export sales have propped up many American businesses throughout the current downturn, but there were some signs that foreign demand was starting to ease. 
 ''A number of districts reported that export orders were bolstering manufacturing activity, but manufacturers in several of those districts have noted some recent slowing in growth from this source,'' the report said.
 The anecdotes contained in the beige book, which is compiled through interviews, phone calls and surveys mailed to hundreds of businesses, are used by Fed officials as a companion to the quantitative data on the economy compiled by its staff.
 Among the more positive spots of the report, agricultural businesses said they had felt some relief from a recent drought, energy and mining activity was strong, and banks reported steady demand for commercial and industrial loans.
 The beige book appeared to have little effect on investors in the stock market, which moved in and out of negative territory. The Dow Jones industrial average finished about 16 points higher, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mixed Growth in Most Regions: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. Based on information collected on or before August 25.Chart shows various regions. (Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



69 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Two Indicted Over Sale Of Securities

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
The broker said the securities were as safe as cash. After all, he claimed, the outfit that issued them, Glacier Education Loan, bought student loans guaranteed by the federal government.
The problem: there is no such thing as Glacier Education Loan.
Authorities say the broker, Eric Butler, sold customers some of the most toxic investments of the subprime age -- collateralized debt obligations -- in what federal prosecutors characterize as a $1 billion bait-and-switch. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Butler and a former colleague, Julian Tzolov, were indicted on securities fraud and other charges, believed to be the first criminal charges stemming from the auction-rate securities debacle.
In a statement, the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn said the pair, who formerly worked at Credit SuisseSecurities, sold corporate clients securities backed by C.D.O.'s, subprime mortgages and mobile-home contracts but told the investors they were buying investments linked to safe student loans. The scheme was designed to reap high commissions, the authorities say.
If convicted, the men could face up to 65 years in prison. The Securities and Exchange Commission also filed civil charges against the two on Wednesday.
Paul T. Weinstein, a lawyer for Mr. Butler, said his client be- lieved in the triple-A securities he had sold to customers. ''He believed he was doing the best for his clients, and they agreed, until the entire auction-rate securities market failed, which had nothing to do with him,'' he said.
Mr. Tzolov has fled the country, people briefed on the case say, and is believed to be in Bulgaria. His lawyer, Kenneth M. Breen, declined to comment.
Auction-rate securities have proved to be a costly mistake for many investors and increasingly for the Wall Street banks that marketed them. The securities are preferred shares or debt instruments with interest rates that reset regularly, usually every week, in auctions overseen by the brokerages that originally sold them. They worked fairly well until this year, when the auctions began to fail in the credit crisis, sticking investors with securities they could not sell.
Regulators have been examining how brokers sold such securities and whether they fully disclosed the potential risks to buyers. Major Wall Street banks have agreed to buy back roughly $50 billion of the worrisome investments in an attempt to contain the legal fallout.
But complaints filed in connection with the Credit Suisse case, and a related action against the Swiss bank by ST Microelectronics, a semiconductor company, paint a classic picture of greed and glory on Wall Street.
At Credit Suisse, Mr. Butler, 36, and Mr. Tzolov, 35, helped corporate clients invest cash in safe, short-term investments like money market instruments. As is standard on Wall Street, the riskier the investment, the higher the brokerage commission.
Mr. Butler and Mr. Tzolov pitched clients auction-rate securities backed by ''student loan issues, whose underlying loans are guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education,'' according to the S.E.C. complaint.
But while the two did buy some student loan securities as they had promised, they also bought far more dangerous investments without telling customers. Between February 2005 and August 2007, they purchased more than $1 billion of other types of auction-rate securities on behalf of clients who had not authorized them to do so.
To cover up their scheme, the complaints allege, the two brokers often changed the descriptions of the securities in e-mail messages with customers, replacing terms like ''C.D.O.'' with words like ''student'' or ''education.'' They sent customers 50 e-mail messages that falsely described the securities, according to the S.E.C. complaint. Sometimes they instructed sales assistants to omit the terms ''C.D.O.'' or ''mortgage,'' the S.E.C. says.
For example, on June 19, 2006, Mr. Tzolov purchased for a Swiss client $23.5 million of auction-rate securities backed by C.D.O.'s issued by an investment vehicle called South Coast Funding V Ltd. In an e-mail message to the client, Mr. Tzolov described the investment as ''South Coast St. Loan,'' the S.E.C. complaint says.
The scheme began to unravel in August 2007, authorities say, when the credit markets seized up. The market for auction-rate securities backed by subprime mortgages collapsed, and the brokers were unable to liquidate their clients' investments.
In one instance, the two brokers misled a client, claiming there was an administrative error in filing a trade ticket, when in fact the auction for the client's securities had failed. They then persuaded the customer to invest $25 million more in securities backed by student loans. Instead, they invested that money in riskier securities. That client is waiting to recover $132.5 million.
David Walker, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, said on Wednesday that Mr. Butler and Mr. Tzolov resigned in September 2007, after the bank discovered the scheme and suspended the two men. ''Credit Suisse immediately informed our regulators, and we have continued to assist the authorities,'' he said.
But ST Microelectronics, one of the bank's clients, disputes Credit Suisse's version of events. In a separate case, the company claims that Credit Suisse Securities engaged in a ''bold and sophisticated scheme to defraud ST.'' The company suggests that Credit Suisse was aware that its brokers were moving clients' money into risky auction-rate securities as part of a scheme to get those securities off the bank's own books and earn higher fees for its services.
Mr. Walker, the Credit Suisse spokesman, said: ''We do not comment on meritless lawsuits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Two former Credit Suisse brokers, Eric Butler, above, and Julian Tzolov, were indicted on securities fraud and other charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (60%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (60%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); STM (PAR) (51%); STM (NYSE) (51%); STM (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); BULGARIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



70 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Personal-Size Wind Power

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- With the California blackouts of 2001 still a painful memory, Chris Beaudoin wants to generate some of his own electricity. He marveled the other day at how close he is to that goal, gazing at two new wind turbines atop his garage roof. They will soon be hooked to the power grid.
''I don't care about how much it costs,'' said Mr. Beaudoin, a flight attendant with United Airlines. That would be $5,000 a turbine, an expense Mr. Beaudoin is unlikely to recoup in electricity savings anytime soon.
No matter. After shoring up the roof and installing the two 300-pound, steel-poled turbines in January, Mr. Beaudoin found himself at the leading edge of a trend in renewable energy. 
Fascination with wind turbines small enough to mount on a roof is spreading from coast to coast. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York last month proposed dotting the city with them. Small turbines have already appeared at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, atop an office building at Logan International Airport in Boston, and even on a utility pole in the small New Hampshire town of Hampton.
These tiny turbines generate so little electricity that some energy experts are not sure the economics will ever make sense.
By contrast, the turbines being installed at wind farms are getting ever larger and more powerful, lowering the unit cost of electricity to the point that they are becoming competitive with electricity generated from natural gas.
The spread of the big turbines and a general fascination with all things green are helping to spur interest in rooftop microturbines, creating a movement somewhere on the border between a hobby and an environmental fashion statement.
Some people have long stuck relatively modest turbines on towers in the countryside. Those are capable of generating enough electricity on a windy day to provide a fair portion of a home's needs and can eventually pay for themselves. The new rooftop turbines are much smaller, however, and few statistics are available yet on their performance.
Mr. Beaudoin hopes to get 30 percent of his electricity from the turbines on a windy day, but whether that will happen remains to be seen.
Jay Leno, the host of ''The Tonight Show,'' recently installed a prototype wind turbine (as well as solar panels) atop a garage in Burbank, Calif., where he works on his car collection. He senses public interest in small-scale wind power that does not have much to do with dollars-and-cents analysis.
''People seem fascinated by the turbines,'' Mr. Leno said. ''You go, 'Look! It's spinning!' ''
Perched high above a building, wind turbines serve as a far more visible clean-energy credential than solar panels, which are often hard to see. At least a dozen small manufacturers have sprouted up to supply the market, though rooftop turbines still account for only 1 percent or so of the 10,000 small wind turbines that are sold each year in the country, according to Ron Stimmel, an advocate of small wind systems at the American Wind Energy Association.
That number seems poised to grow, given the recent interest.
''We're prebleeding-edge early,'' said Todd Pelman, founder of Blue Green Pacific, the maker of Mr. Beaudoin's turbine. The technology, he conceded, is not yet ''something that would be bought at Home Depot.''
Mr. Pelman has sunk $200,000 of his own money into the start-up, which has just three turbines in operation -- Mr. Beaudoin's pair, and one above Mr. Pelman's own bedroom in a Victorian house in San Francisco.
In accordance with urban sensibilities, many of the new designs are stylish. The six turbines peeping over the edge of a building in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, installed this summer, look as if they are covered with dainty white parasols, a design touch that doubles as a bird shield. The French designer Philippe Starck has plans to introduce an elegant plastic turbine in Europe this fall.
Mr. Bloomberg's proposal calls for wind turbines on the city's skyscrapers and bridges, though it is unclear how big they will be and just where they will go.
''It's the Wild West out there in small wind these days,'' said David Rabkin, director of innovation, strategic partnerships and sustainability at the Museum of Science in Boston. Aided by a $300,000 state grant, the museum plans to put a total of nine turbines, of five types, on its roof by next April as an educational project.
Harvard also plans to put some atop its Holyoke Center office complex and on a parking garage. Harvard views the experimental installations as ''outward symbols of our commitment to renewable energy and sustainability here on campus,'' said Jim Gray, associate vice president for Harvard real estate services.
In San Francisco, another coastal city with abundant wind, the local government is considering introducing incentives to increase urban wind power.
''You're seeing the birth of a movement,'' said Jared Blumenfeld, director of the San Francisco Department of Environment, who hopes to put a turbine on his own home. ''Ten years from now, you could probably see 2,000 to 3,000 rooftops with wind.''
But many experts caution that rooftops, while abundant, are usually poor places to harness the breeze. Not only are cities less windy than the countryside, but the air is choppier because of trees and the variation in heights in buildings. Turbulence can wear down a turbine and make it operate less efficiently. This is particularly problematic for houses with pitched roofs.
''In an urban environment, more times than not you're better off with a solar panel,'' said Mr. Stimmel, of the wind industry association.
A recent British study of wind on home roofs found that turbines generate less power than installers projected because of lower-than-expected wind speeds. Ian Woofenden, a senior editor at Home Power magazine who teaches wind workshops, estimates that electricity from rooftop turbines may cost $1.50 a kilowatt hour or more. (That is enough electricity to run a hair dryer for an hour, roughly.)
By comparison, he said, power from a well-sited, tower-mounted turbine would cost 10 to 50 cents a kilowatt hour, and power from utility-scale wind farms costs less than 10 cents a kilowatt hour.
''Rooftop wind economics are abysmal, since the resource just isn't there,'' he said in an e-mail message.
Rooftop wind advocates argue that output will turn out to be healthy in windy areas, and they also think that prices for small turbines will come down as the market grows, altering the economics.
The most established company selling rooftop turbines is AeroVironment, a California company better known for making unmanned aerial vehicles. It has installed demonstration projects on about a dozen commercial rooftops, including those at Logan airport and the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
According to Paul Glenney, director of the company's clean energy technology center, the edge of a long, flat roof (above, say, a big-box store or warehouse) can experience up to 40 percent extra wind, much like the stiff breeze at the edge of a cliff.
Demand for AeroVironment's rooftop turbines, which it sells for about $6,500 each, is strong, he said. ''We've hidden our Web site very carefully, and yet people find us,'' Mr. Glenney said.
AeroVironment officials say that rooftop turbines at windy sites in states with costly electricity could pay for themselves in four to eight years, but acknowledge that in places with low power prices, the turbines may never recoup their costs.
In May and June, the 20 Logan turbines combined produced just 1,430 kilowatt hours -- less than the average home would use over that time. Airport authorities said, however, that the Boston winds pick up in the fall and winter. Mr. Leno thinks his turbine has generated about 725 kilowatt hours in six months of operation.
''You can say, 'That's not a lot,' or 'Every bit helps,' '' Mr. Leno said.
British studies have recently suggested that making and transporting turbines for cities may lead to more carbon dioxide emissions than the turbines save.
A special challenge of urban turbine manufacturers is to make machines with minimal noise and vibration. At Logan, the only complaint has come from a person with an office right under a turbine.
''Basically he said it just sounds like he's in a Stephen King movie -- that howling when there's a lot of wind,'' said Sam Sleiman, director of capital programs at Massport, the agency overseeing the airport project.
But the more common reaction to these small turbines is envy. Reino Niemela, a San Franciscan, has a direct view of Mr. Beaudoin's turbines from his backyard.
''I was thinking of doing something like that myself,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, one of two 6-foot-tall turbines atop the garage roof of Chris Beaudoin's San Francisco home that will be hooked to the power grid. Below, turbines at Logan International Airport in Boston produced fewer kilowatt hours than anticipated.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Wind turbines installed atop a new building in the Brooklyn Navy Yard. The canopies stretched overhead act as a bird shield.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C9) CHART: Wind Turbines Span a Vast Size Range: Wind turbines that generate electricity have been growing bigger for several years, like the Vestas model at right. The latest trend is small turbines that can fit on a rooftop, like the AeroVironment turbine at left.(Source: AeroVironment, Southwest Windpower, Vestas) (pg. C9) Chart shows demonstration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); TRENDS (75%); MAYORS (73%); AIRLINES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); STATISTICS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%); JAY LENO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



71 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: The Ambassador of Handmade

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
 THE entrepreneurial spirit of the modern crafts girl should not be underestimated. Faythe Levine, a 30-year-old gallerist, collector, maker and all-around booster of the indie-D.I.Y. crafts movement began six years ago with some sock monkeys and a handstitched felt owl. 
 Today, Ms. Levine, whose tattooed arms are twined with more hearts, flowers and lettering than a crewelwork sampler, is the proprietor of a crafts store and gallery, as well as the prime documentarian and patron saint of what she calls the handmade nation. She is cited in academic journals, quoted in magazines and newspapers, appears on TV and has been a keynote speaker at arts symposiums. 
 Back in 2002, however, Ms. Levine was a sometime artist who made punk rock zines. That year, she organized an art show of sock monkeys in her home, sock monkeys being universally appealing objects requiring not much medium, she explained, mostly just socks. She had 80 submissions, most of which sold. 
 The next year, she began making stuffed felt owls and selling them online; the success of the business -- she had orders for 200 at a time -- wreaked havoc on her neck and back. Before long, she found herself knee-deep in the alt-crafts world, attending its Lollapalooza-like events and becoming a part of a tight, mostly female, quasi-political community. 
 ''I was going to all these fairs and I remember thinking: Something big is happening. This has to be documented,'' Ms. Levine said. ''People were writing about it, magazines were starting,'' she said, referring to publications like ReadyMade, which started in 2001 and contained projects like Slayer T-shirt pillows, as well as newer magazines like Make and Craft.
 ''Handmade Nation: The Rise of DIY, Art, Craft and Design,'' a feature-length documentary that she financed largely on credit cards, will be shown at festivals and museums early next year. The film (handmadenationmovie.com), which has a cute-spooky soundtrack by Ms. Levine's band, Wooden Robot (that's Ms. Levine on the musical saw), portrays the handiwork of groups like Houston-based Knitta (which ties knitted ''graffiti'' tubes around street lamps) and Jenny Hart's Sublime Stitching company in Austin (which produces and sells embroidery patterns of space aliens, hypodermic needles and human organs). 
 It is a sweet-toned record of a new and growing community, one with its own esthetic, lifestyle and economy. ''If you don't like the culture you're in,'' said one young woman at the Renegade Craft Fair in Chicago, voicing the movement's anti-industrial, anti-institutional and highly entrepreneurial manifesto, ''you have to create your own.'' 
 An eight-minute teaser that Ms. Levine posted on YouTube in 2006 caught the attention of the Princeton Architectural Press, which commissioned a book, out this month, with the same title as the film. (Ms. Levine wrote it with her friend Cortney Heimerl, another crafter and curator.) 
 As of this week, the YouTube teaser has had nearly 90,000 views. Meanwhile Etsy (etsy.com), the online department store for the D.I.Y. set, which claims to have had a million users since 2005, recently received a cash infusion of $27 million from a group of investors led by Accel Partners, a venture capital group that has also invested in Facebook.
 Home stores like Urban Outfitters and, to a lesser extent, West Elm, continue to limn the handmade look -- the woodland creatures, the deadpan-delicate drawings of nature scenes, ''the whole cuteness factor,'' as Ms. Levine put it -- in many of their products. 
 Back in Milwaukee, though, Ms. Levine is just trying to pay the rent, cheerfully juggling commitments that sometimes help her do that and sometimes don't: band practice; an artist's residency; independent curating; the ''Handmade Nation'' book tour (Princeton Architectural Press is printing 20,000 copies, a huge number for the house); and other speaking engagements. 
 Then there's the administration of Art vs. Craft, the crafts fair she started here in 2004, and running the Paper Boat Boutique and Gallery, a store she owns with a friend, Kim Kisiolek, which sells handmade objects. 
 She'd like to pay off those credit cards, too ($30,000 would about do it, she said). 
 For a year and a half, Ms. Levine and her boyfriend, Nathan Lilley, a guitar player in an indie rock band, have been living in a large, airy apartment above the store, in a hundred-year-old brick building that used to house a bar, once the requisite business on nearly every corner of her working-class neighborhood. 
 The apartment is filled with her ''addictions,'' as she calls her collections of handmade books, zines, records, paintings, drawings, Outsider art and objects like a crocheted anatomical heart by Merrilee Challiss, an Alabama artist, and a hand-stitched stuffed yellow lion she bought for $50 at a store called ReForm School in Los Angeles. 
 On a recent afternoon, Ms. Levine wore cowboy boots and a vintage Liberty print dress, its demure flowers a counterpoint to her extensive body art, much of it paid for by bartering artwork. This particular collection -- of tattoos -- was started when she was 17.
 ''I'm lucky my taste hasn't changed,'' she said, pulling off a boot to reveal her latest, a zebra face with a circus headdress that had been inked onto her left calf and was still a bit scabby. 
 The surface area of one's skin provides a built-in limit for the collector of tattoos. If one collects three-dimensional objects, however, one is limited only by the ability to pay for storage. 
 ''I have enough for four houses,'' Ms. Levine said. ''In dreamland, I would open a museum.'' She pointed out some of her favorite objects, like a picture by Mike Brodie, a train-hopping photographer, ''of my friend Jessie's shack, which she built from garbage in North Carolina'' and a sequined coyote pelt hanging over her bed. (''Sequined taxidermy, how awesome is that!'')
 On a linoleum table in the dining room, a mushroom-bedecked vase, crocheted doily and assemblage of tiny carved wooden critters offered the complete ironic-cute dialectic that is the visual arsenal of the modern D.I.Y. esthetic. 
 ''My whole place is saturated in it,'' she admitted. 
 Ms. Levine grew up in Los Angeles and Seattle, with parents who were as much at home in the alternative world as she. Her father, Rick Merlin Levine, is an astrologer whose work is syndicated to AOL and Google; her mother, Suzanne Wechsler, is an organic dairy farmer. 
 ''They were always pretty supportive of any creative urge I had,'' Ms. Levine said.
 Her ''gateway drug'' into the handmade life, she said, was the zine culture of the underground punk rock scene. That world, with its vegan anarchist collective restaurants and plywood punk houses, its handmade record covers and hand-lettered, stapled newsletters, and its network of fans connected by old-world skills like letter writing, was a Luddite's paradise of 21st-century homemakers and do-it-yourselfers. 
 ''Everything is mass-produced,'' Ms. Levine said. ''Here were these people doing things the hard way, making these amazing things. It was the incredibly awesome idea that people were taking the time to do this, and that I could do it,too.'' 
 The democratic world view of the modern crafter -- the unschooled, technique-and-judgment-free energy of it all -- is what pulls many in. ''I'm no seamstress, I can't hem anything, and I'm too impatient to learn how to knit or crochet,'' Ms. Levine said, ''but I love just stitching.'' 
 It is also what irritates old-school craftspeople, those who might have come out of the American studio crafts movement of the '50s, '60s, and '70s. Yet their ideals are the same, according to Andrew Wagner, the editor of American Craft magazine, which redesigned itself last year in an attempt to bridge the two worlds.
 Mr. Wagner, a founding editor of Dwell magazine, went on to say, ''It's still about working outside the mainstream, and making a living doing what you love. We saw this huge new movement, which Faythe is cast as sort of the poster child for, and it and the old guard weren't communicating.'' 
 There was, Mr. Wagner said, some real hostility: ''The old guard was saying: It took me 20 years to master my craft, and these kids think they can start by just stitching owls.'' 
 ''It would be incorrect to say there's nothing of quality coming out of the D.I.Y. world,'' he continued, ''but what they bring to the table is what's important. Their energy is infectious, which is why I call D.I.Y. the punk rock of the craft world.'' 
 In the current issue of American Craft, an article titled ''DIY Grows up: The Political Power of the Do-It-Yourself Movement,'' chews over the state of the crazy quilt it has become: the fairs awash in money from corporate sponsors, the huge market for the objects sold there and the confusion that has arisen for the makers. 
 Is a handmade object still subversive if buyers are willing to pay more for it than the maker could afford to pay herself? Do the tight bonds of the community and its micro-economies trump the appetite of mainstream culture for the authenticity those bonds and economies represent?
 ''The handmade look is definitely a trend everywhere, from the art world to the stores,'' Ms. Levine said. ''But I think it helps the community, because someone can go to Urban Outfitters and then to a craft fair and relate that look back. It makes it all stronger.'' 
 Still, she said, ''I do understand the turn-offs. If you see 100 owls, it's hard not to get annoyed and bitter.'' 
 Ms. Levine, who receives hundreds of submissions from makers who want to be shown in her gallery, does see a lot of owls. ''But even when I turn people down,'' she said, ''I want to send a message: Don't stop. What matters is that people keep making things.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 4 about the rise of the D.I.Y. craft movement misstated the title of an article in the August/September issue of American Craft magazine. The article, by Sabrina Gschwandtner, was titled ''Let 'Em Eat Cake'' -- not ''DIY Grows Up: The Politics of the Do-It-Yourself Movement,'' which was a descriptive line on the magazine's cover.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PATCHWORK LAB: Faythe Levine, a pillar of the do-it-yourself movement, at her home in Milwaukee. She recently completed a documentary and a book, both with the title ''Handmade Nation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
 FROM SCRATCH: Faythe Levine lives over Paper Boat, a store and gallery she owns with a friend. The store, a corner bar in a past life, sells all manner of objects, from clothes to shadow puppets. Top: Ms. Levine with a vintage toy she embellished with sequins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); POP & ROCK (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Handmade Nation: The Rise of DIY, Art, Craft and Design (Movie)>; Handmade Nation: The Rise of DIY, Art, Craft and Design (Book)>; Handmade Nation: The Rise of DIY, Art, Craft and Design (Movie)>; Handmade Nation: The Rise of DIY, Art, Craft and Design (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



72 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 498 words

 BODY:
TURNAROUND STRUGGLES Cerberus Capital Management is attempting to salvage multibillion-dollar investments in Chrysler and GMAC, General Motors' financing arm. 
 SECURITIES CHARGES The United States attorney's office charged two former Credit Suisse brokers with misleading investors over the purchase of $1 billion in auction-rate securities. [C1.] 
 WIND POWER The spread of big turbines and a general fascination with all things green are helping spur interest in rooftop microturbines. [C1.]
 KICKBACK SCHEME A former executive of KBR, a Halliburton subsidiary, pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges in connection to a scheme to pay $182 million in bribes to Nigerian officials. [C1.]
 PAPERLESS MAIL For a fee, Earth Class Mail will scan your incoming mail from the United States Postal Service and display it on a private Web page. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 SPINOFF PLANNED Liberty Media said it would spin off its entertainment business, including its 50 percent stake in DirecTV, into a separate entity. [C2.]
 HIGH-END ADS The Wall Street Journal unveiled its new quarterly magazine, the paper's bid to capture a bigger piece of the luxury ad market. Advertising. [C2.]
 WEAK GROWTH Federal Reserve data showed that the economy spent the summer in a rut, with consumers getting little relief from rising prices. [C3.]
 FACING A CHALLENGE American Airlines defended its proposed alliance with British Airways from claims that it would create a monopoly on trans-Atlantic service from Heathrow Airport. [C3.]
 BUILDER POSTS LOSS Hovnanian Enterprises reported a wider quarterly loss than a year ago, hurt by record foreclosures and poor consumer confidence. [C3.]
 INVESTING IN CHINA If the Coca-Cola Company completes its $2.5 billion offer to acquire the China Huiyuan Juice Company, one of China's largest beverage makers, the acquisition would be one of the biggest foreign takeovers of a Chinese company. [C3.]
 HITTING BOTTOM? Auto sales fell in August, but officials at General Motors and the Ford Motor Company expressed hope that the industry had stabilized.[C4.]
 The Ford Motor Company will resume production at an idled Ontario engine plant, in part with federal funding of as much as 80 million Canadian dollars. [C4.]
 PURLOINED DATA Dassault Systemes, a French software maker, said confidential business data had been posted on the intranet of a unit of Siemens, the German industrial conglomerate. [C5.]
 LA DOLCE VITA Gelato seems to have caught the fancy of food lovers in the United States, and small-business owners are betting that standalone gelato shops can make some money. [C5.]
 MUSIC DOWNLOAD PRIMER Because the law tends to lag behind technological advances, there are gray areas where free music, while not clearly legal, is not clearly illegal. Basics. [C6.]
 LOWER PRICE FOR XBOX Microsoft, the world's largest software maker, will cut the price of its Xbox 360 video game console to better compete with the market leader Nintendo Company. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (85%); AUCTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); BRIBERY (76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); SOFT DRINK MFG (68%); BEVERAGE MFG (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINK MFG (68%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (67%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (63%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (54%); INTRANETS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); COCA-COLA CO (66%); SIEMENS AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (54%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%); CHINA HUIYUAN JUICE GROUP LTD (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); KO (NYSE) (66%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); HOV (NYSE) (54%); 1886 (HKSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (66%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); CANADA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



73 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Accused of Being Out of Touch, a 25-Year Congressman Campaigns for Dear Life

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
It was a grueling day of nonstop activity for United States Representative Edolphus Towns. He started campaigning shortly after sunrise at a subway station in East New York, in the heart of his Congressional district in Brooklyn. By day's end last Thursday, he had stumped at a senior center and a community barbecue, solicited contributions by phone and attended a fund-raising reception in his honor headlined by former President Bill Clinton.
 That is typical of the pace he is keeping lately. By his own admission, Mr. Towns is campaigning as if he were in the fight of his political life.
 And why? He is a 25-year incumbent in a solidly, reliably Democratic district. He has the backing of nearly every major Democratic official in the state and has raised nearly $1 million. He faces an opponent in Tuesday's Democratic primary who is a relative political neophyte, a journalist best known for having appeared on the first season of ''The Real World'' on MTV. 
 But Mr. Towns, 74, is in his third competitive race in his last five elections. Two years ago, he won a three-way Democratic primary, but with only 48 percent of the vote, one of the weakest showings of any incumbent in Congress. 
 To hear Mr. Towns's detractors -- and even some of his supporters -- tell it, the congressman has become vulnerable because he has done little to address the problems faced by his neighbors and others like them. 
 ''He should be a leading spokesman for the issues of urban America,'' said J. Phillip Thompson, an associate professor of urban politics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''But when I think of Ed Towns, I think of someone who's been virtually missing in action on the major issues that his constituents care about.''
 Indeed, nearly everyone in Brooklyn politics acknowledges that Mr. Towns is a master fund-raiser and campaigner who is very much at home with voters. But they also complain that he has been less than a potent political force in, say, the tradition of either Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem or former Representative Floyd H. Flake of Queens. 
 ''In many ways, he's made himself into a political institution,'' said Barry D. Ford Jr., a Harvard-educated lawyer who lost Democratic primaries to the Brooklyn congressman in 1998 and in 2000. ''But he has still not been a leader on the issues that are important: the support of schools, drug-related violence, housing and so forth.''
 This year, Mr. Towns's opponent in the Democratic primary is Kevin Powell, a 42-year-old lecturer and activist of the hip-hop generation who has sought to capture the Obama-fueled enthusiasm of young voters in the district.
 In his campaign, Mr. Powell has reignited many of the criticisms lodged against Representative Towns in earlier campaigns: that he is in the pocket of the tobacco industry and various political action committees; that his legislative record has been lackluster and that he is out of step with the district, which stretches from Canarsie and East New York to Bedford-Stuyvesant and Fort Greene; that despite serving 13 terms, he wields little influence in Congress. As evidence, he cites Mr. Towns's support of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the presidential primary, in a district that voted for Senator Barack Obama.
 ''He's been taking money from the pharmaceutical industry, even though there are seniors in this district who can't afford prescription drugs,'' Mr. Powell said. ''And where is the economic empowerment zone that he promised this district 10 years ago?''
 Mr. Powell added, ''This says to me that we have someone in office who has just been getting over on the people of Brooklyn.''
 Mr. Towns has accepted nearly $90,000 in contributions from tobacco companies since 1989, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group that tracks campaign donations. That places him in the top fifth of all members of Congress -- and significantly higher among representatives from outside the South. The critics, including anti-smoking groups, say Mr. Towns should not have accepted the money because cancer rates in his district are high and many residents have little access to health care.
 For his part, the congressman says that his accomplishments have been voluminous, and that his leadership has been underestimated. 
 ''I don't jump in front of the cameras, like some people do in politics,'' Mr. Towns said in an interview in his Downtown Brooklyn office. ''I prefer to get the work done and not worry about the spotlight.'' 
 When asked about his role as a leader nationally, he said: ''When you look at who's been in Congress from New York, I'm the only one ever to chair the Congressional Black Caucus.'' He added: ''That shows that I'm respected by my colleagues across the country. They respect my judgment.''
 His support of Mrs. Clinton was a logical one, he said, because she had been an effective senator. ''She has delivered,'' he said. ''And every Democratic member of the delegation supported her.''
 His legislative accomplishments have been significant, too, he said, citing most recently a law he sponsored that protects residents from housing increases at Starrett City, one of the nation's largest federally subsidized housing developments. Another bill he shepherded into law, he said, offers funds for colleges with large minority enrollments to upgrade their technology. 
 The reason for his weak showing in the last election, he said, is that he was concentrating more on his legislative work in Washington than on campaigning. He will not make the same mistake again, he said. 
 ''This time, I'm focused on my race,'' he said. ''And the response has been tremendous. When I'm focused, you'll see that nobody works harder than I do.'' 
 While Mr. Powell may have nowhere near the campaign funds of Mr. Towns (he has raised a small fraction of the congressman's $1 million), he is a widely recognized figure in the district largely because of his television and community work.
 It remains to be seen whether voters will respond to Mr. Powell's passionate critiques. Mr. Towns, an ordained Baptist minister who has maintained close ties with the black clergy of Brooklyn, is comfortable and active on the campaign trail. 
 Mr. Towns, who was born in North Carolina, had a varied career before going to Congress. He has been a public school teacher and an administrator at Beth Israel Medical Center. He cast his lot politically with the old Brooklyn political machine, then led by Borough President Howard Golden, under whom he served as deputy borough president.
 He came to Congress in a three-way contest in 1982, succeeding Frederick W. Richmond, who pleaded guilty that year to federal tax evasion charges and resigned from the House. 
 Over the years, Mr. Towns has faced criticism on a number of fronts. Many union leaders denounced him for his vote in favor of the Central America Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta. The agreement was aimed at lowering most barriers to trade and investment between the United States and six other nations, including the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica and El Salvador. 
 Some Democratic leaders criticized him for his 1997 endorsement in the re-election campaign of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican who was wildly unpopular among black voters.
 In this election, Mr. Towns has received about 60 percent of his contributions from political action committees, and the rest from individuals. (By industry, pharmaceutical companies are his top donors.) The average for incumbent members of Congress is to receive about 40 percent of theircampaign money from political action committees, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. 
 Mr. Towns said he wanted a strong showing in Tuesday's primary to end any temptation to future challengers. ''I'm determined to show everyone that I can win and win big,'' he said. ''That's just what I'm going to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Edolphus Towns of Brooklyn, 74, at lectern in left photo, is being challenged in Tuesday's Democratic primary by Kevin Powell, 42.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); LAWYERS (62%)

PERSON: ED TOWNS (90%); BILL CLINTON (72%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



74 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Two Conventions With No Shortage of Contrasts

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Megan Thee and Kitty Bennett contributed research.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Three days into the Republican National Convention, its differences from last week's Democratic conclave have grown apparent: overwhelmingly white delegates, a strongly unified hall, erratic energy levels and speeches that focus heavily on iconography. 
 Of all these differences, the contrast in racial and ethnic demographics is perhaps most visible to viewers of the conventions, being held this year on consecutive weeks. The Republican gathering has more white delegates than in 2004, and more men as well.
 According to polls of delegates conducted by The New York Times and CBS News, 93 percent of the Republican delegates are white (compared with 85 percent in 2004 and 89 percent in 2000), while 5 percent are Hispanic and 2 percent are black. The Democratic delegate pool in Denver, according to the survey, was 65 percent white, 23 percent black and 11 percent Hispanic, roughly the same as at other recent Democratic conventions. 
 The poll also found that men accounted for 68 percent of Republican delegates (compared with 57 percent in 2004) and about half the Democratic delegates.
 As for the speeches thus far, the Republicans have focused on cloaking Senator John McCain in the political cloth of country and character, while the Democrats dwelled heavily on Senator Barack Obama's signature message of change, emphasizing a new approach to leadership and reversals in President Bush's domestic and foreign policies.
 Both the content of the messages and the color of the faces reflect a clear political reality. In 2000 and 2004, Mr. Bush and one of his top lieutenants, Ken Mehlman, worked explicitly to win more black and Hispanic votes. This year the Republicans are aggressively reaching out to the base of their party -- white, male, conservative -- while making a new appeal to women with the addition of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska to the ticket.
 The Bush strategy paid some dividends in 2004: the president won 16 percent of African-Americans in Ohio and 56 percent of Hispanics in Florida, for instance, meaningful numbers that helped him capture those two swing states. But Republican leaders, especially in the wake of black anger about the government's response to Hurricane Katrina and mindful of the pull of Mr. Obama's candidacy, have largely de-emphasized their outreach to minorities.
 Nelson Warfield, a Republican consultant, pointed out that Democratic Party rules called for race- and gender-based numerical goals for state delegations, a factor that most likely contributed to the greater minority presence at the Denver event.
 ''The Republicans,'' Mr. Warfield said, ''trust delegates to represent the interests of all people more than Democrats do with their quotas.''
 But Democrats warned of the pitfalls of ignoring minority voters.
 ''You might call this Republican convention, with its almost uninterrupted and conspicuously unrepresentative sea of white faces, the ghost of elections to come,'' said Dan Gerstein, a Democratic consultant who supports Mr. Obama but is not working for him. ''Given the rapid and dramatic demographic changes this country is undergoing in this era, the Republicans will soon doom themselves to minority-party status if they don't find a way to broaden their appeal and their ranks to include more people of color.''
 The Republicans appear far more united than their counterparts did, suffering from less ambivalence about the McCain-Palin ticket than the Democratic delegates suggested with their emotional rifts in the wake of the primary campaign between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Republican speakers are also talking confidently about what might have been considered potential lightning rods with swing voters, hailing Mr. Bush's appointments to the Supreme Court, John G. Roberts Jr. and Samuel A. Alito Jr. Democrats largely glided over the court as a topic, instead talking steadily throughout their gathering about the economy, a subject to which the Republicans turned far more on Wednesday night than on Tuesday.
 According to a New York Times analysis, the Democratic speakers frequently used the following words last week: change, family, energy, jobs, health care, economy, mom/mother and Iraq. So far, words that Republicans have been using often include God, reform, character, family, taxes, leader, hope and hurricane.
 The Democratic convention appears at this point to have been the more lavish affair, with more screens, monitors and imagery to hold viewers' attention. And, of course, there was the move to a football stadium for Mr. Obama's speech on the final night, replete with stage columns and fireworks. The Republican production, on the other hand, has one, dominant screen on stage, and a more monochromatic design scheme that can flatten out the proceedings.
 The Democrats also had a band that played a variety of pop anthems, whereas the Republican hall has been filled with a mix of country music and mellower harmonies. Delegates in both cities have occasionally broken into dancing, and rhythm's challenge has appeared bipartisan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The Democratic convention is a mess of different ideas.'' CHRIS MULLER, ADJUNCT PROFESSOR OF STAGE DESIGN, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES)
''I have no idea what the over-scaled classical columns and mullioned windows have to say, other than to show how good Obama would look in front of the West Wing of the White House.'' MICHAEL YEARGAN, SET DESIGNER FOR ''SOUTH PACIFIC''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
 ''Usually, Republicans overdo it. This time they went with simplicity. That was a strategic move to imply that McCain has simple tastes.'' RICHARD FINKELSTEIN, HEAD OF STAGE DESIGN, JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY(PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); MEN (77%); ETHNICITY (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



75 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: From Bush to McCain: The Handoff

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush Says McCain Is Choice to Lead in Time of Danger'' (front page, Sept. 3):
 Seeing President Bush (at a safe distance) and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman speaking to the Republican convention dispels any doubt that Senator John McCain, the prospective nominee for president on the Republican ticket, is running for President Bush's third term. 
 Katrina, the economy, windfall profits for the oil industry as gas prices spiral out of control and eavesdropping on Americans -- but it is the war in Iraq that is Mr. Bush's albatross and everlasting legacy, which Mr. McCain supports at our peril and which the electorate will be voting on in November. 
 Morris Roth 
 Fort Lee, N.J., Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Yes, we live in dangerous times, but the person we need to lead the country at such times is one who knows his geography and understands the complexities of the world, one who listens and explores all possibilities before jumping to war.
 President Bush's advice to always ''stay on the offense'' does not keep our country safe; it increases fear at home and anger abroad. The person we need is one who can decrease the tension, one who is willing to talk with those who disagree with our policies, and one who can raise our stature in the world so that we once again enjoy respect for the power of our morals, not the power of weapons. Carol Delaney
 Providence, R.I., Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In his farewell speech to the Republican convention made at the comfortable distance (for everyone) from his White House office, President Bush once again fell back on the Republicans' tried and true mantra: Be afraid, be very afraid. 
 He reminded the audience of the ''dangerous world'' in which we live, saying we must stay on the offensive and understand the lessons of Sept. 11. Never mind that the Bush administration continues to pour (divert) billions of dollars each month into Iraq while our school system is in financial straits; our roads and bridges are crumbling; health care is out of reach for many Americans, not to mention the energy crisis or simply having a home to live in. 
 What this country should fear most is becoming a second-rate nation and losing the respect of the rest of the world. Our next president must address these real issues head-on and stop the hemorrhaging of our nation's resources and taxpayer money overseas. 
 Jim Anderson
 Beverly Hills, Calif., Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Palin Start: Politics Not as Usual'' (front page, Sept. 3), about Sarah Palin's tenure as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska:
 Actually, stumbles in early office (or last week, for that matter) aside, it's refreshing to know that Sarah Palin has actually run something in an executive capacity.
 That is far more comforting than the Democrats' top of the ticket, Barack Obama, who has never served in an executive capacity, spent his first election methodically working on disqualifying potential primary opponents (unlike Ms. Palin, who beat opponents on ''wedge issues''), and spent his years in office preening, posturing and embellishing his life story.
 I sure know which outstanding basketball player I'd rely upon in a local, national or international political crisis.
 Kip Dellinger
 West Los Angeles, Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I would normally agree with your statement, ''The fact that Ms. Palin's 17-year-old daughter is pregnant is irrelevant to her candidacy'' (''Candidate McCain's Big Decision,'' editorial, Sept. 3). Indeed, it should be irrelevant. In this case, however, Sarah Palin is running under the flag of ''family values.'' 
 What little we have in the way of a public record gives strong indication that she would use her high government office as a base from which to impose her views of morality and religion on her fellow citizens.
 Reports indicate that as mayor of Wasilla, Alaska, Ms. Palin considered the idea of banning certain books from the public library on moral grounds (''Palin Start: Politics Not as Usual,'' front page, Sept. 3). Since Ms. Palin would have government intervene in the private morality of Americans, her personal morality and her practice of ''family values'' are very much relevant to the decision that the voters will need to make in November. Sol Glasner
 Chevy Chase, Md., Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 America is facing one of its most important presidential elections ever (''Life of Her Party,'' by Maureen Dowd, column, Sept. 3). John McCain's selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate has turned his campaign into a tear-jerking soap opera. He realized that he needed to do something to add some excitement to his dull, unexciting campaign, so he picked Ms. Palin. 
 Did Mr. McCain put the country first by selecting someone so unqualified to be president? In pandering to the religious right, he shows that he is not his own man, the person he was in the 2000 presidential campaign. John McCain's judgment is declining; he is no longer a maverick. Paul L. Whiteley Sr.
 Louisville, Ky., Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Garry Wills's Sept. 3 Op-Ed article, ''McCain's McGovern Moment,'' mistreats Senator George McGovern, whose error in 1972 was more understandable than Senator John McCain's so far appears to be. 
 A last-minute vice-presidential pick at a contested convention was still the norm in 1972, but the McCain campaign had the good fortune of several months to vet prospects.
 Thomas Eagleton was a senator and a national figure, recommended to Mr. McGovern by several fellow senators; Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska was little known outside her own state, and Republicans in Washington seemed to possess scant information about her before last Friday. 
 Mr. McGovern was unaware of one explosive secret about Mr. Eagleton; Mr. McCain appears not to have known many odd things that are still emerging in the press about Ms. Palin. 
 Bruce Miroff
 Delmar, N.Y., Sept. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''What the Palin Pick Says'' (column, Sept. 2):
 Thanks to David Brooks for his description of the myriad complexities a president must confront, and for pointing out the possible shortcomings of Senator John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin when it comes to dealing with complex problems. 
 But I disagree with his portrayal of Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin as tending to ''lead life as a string of virtuous crusades.'' 
 Better schools, universal health care, the right to a fair trial, the death penalty, and narrowing the gap between the rich and the poor are among the most crucial moral issues the country faces today, yet they have received scant attention from the Republican candidates. 
 At this stage of the campaign, it is Barack Obama, with his message of community service, inclusiveness and compassion, who seems best able to provide the moral leadership that the Bush administration, for all its religiosity, failed to provide. 
 Rachelle Marshall
 Stanford, Calif., Sept. 2, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RON BARRETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



76 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: The Unusual Challenges of Governing Alaska

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; William Yardley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ANCHORAGE -- Like so many other distinctions about Alaska -- the biggest, wildest, coldest state not even half a century removed from its territorial days -- being governor here is just flat different.
''Alaska is its own world,'' said Tony Knowles, a Democrat who served as governor from 1994 to 2002.
Sarah Palin's experience as Alaska's governor since taking office in late 2006 has been a keystone argument by Republicans that she is fit to serve as vice president. At the convention Wednesday in St. Paul, Ms. Palin and other speakers contended that her time as governor has given her more practical experience than Mr. Obama.
Many Americans in other states, though, might not recognize the job she holds or the unusual challenges she has faced -- from managing a $5 billion budget surplus in a time of economic distress elsewhere, to upending an entrenched political establishment within her own party that was literally around for the state's founding. 
Alaska's economic well-being -- sustained, as most things are here, by oil and federal spending -- has allowed Ms. Palin to avoid some of the tough budgetary choices vexing governors in dozens of other states. That in turn raises questions for some people about how much her experience is relevant to the rest of the nation and how much she can relate to the troubles of struggling blue-collar workers in places like Ohio and Pennsylvania, worried about the winter gas bills and the mortgage.
At a time when most other state governments are cutting back, Alaska is now distributing $1,200-per-resident oil-bounty bonus checks.
That said, by other measures, Alaska is harder to govern than a smaller, more settled realm in the Lower 48. With vast distances, large numbers of indigenous peoples and a narrowly based extraction economy -- with a handful of giant multinational oil corporations dominating the game -- some economists say a country like Nigeria might be an apter comparison.
''Alaska really is a colonial place,'' said Stephen Haycox, a professor of history at the University of Alaska Anchorage. ''One third of the economic base is oil; another third is federal spending. The economy is extremely narrow and highly dependent. It's not to say that Alaska is a beggar state, but it certainly is true that Alaska is dependent on decisions made outside it, and over which Alaskans don't have great control.''
Overlaid across all of that is a distinctly informal Alaskan style. At the annual governor's picnic, usually held in July, the governor is expected to turn the brats and burgers on the grill -- something Ms. Palin has done with gusto -- with cabinet members in aprons rounding out the kitchen staff.
Alaska also came of political age recently, which has meant two crucial things to Ms. Palin's rise and experience as governor.
First, the State Constitution concentrates power in the governor's office more thoroughly than in almost any other state -- a legacy of the late 1950s, historians say, when statehood and a simultaneous trend all over the country toward elevating executive authority coincided.
Alaskan governors can edit legislation and their vetoes are tougher for lawmakers to overcome. In the numerical scale of power devised by Thad Beyle, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, only Massachusetts' governor has a mightier tool kit.
Second, inch-deep history has meant that the leading lights of statehood are not mere names in history books but are in many cases still around and even still in power, like Senator Ted Stevens and Representative Don Young, both Republicans with decades under their belts in Washington. That old guard is still revered by some Alaskans, but it is disdained by others who have been on the lookout for fresh Republican faces.
It is in that densely layered Alaskan mix that Ms. Palin rose, governed and must be understood, academics and people in both parties say -- not as merely a governor, or a woman, but as an Alaskan.
''The frontier mentality, whether myth or not, is still alive,'' said Donald Linky, director of the Program on the Governor, at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University.
Political organizations and the careful grooming of rising stars have long been part of the political culture in creating governors-to-be in many other states, Mr. Linky said. Not so in Alaska, and elsewhere in the West.
In places where politics is closer to the ground, an insurgent like Ms. Palin, who challenged a governor from her own party in 2006 and won, has an easier road, Mr. Linky said. Ms. Palin's storming of the gates was helped by the taint of the Alaskan money culture gone awry, as federal authorities investigated oil-cash corruption in the State Legislature in 2006, an inquiry which has since expanded to include Mr. Stevens and others.
''It was a situation that was absolutely ripe for somebody to come in and say, 'Hey, the emperor has no clothes,' '' said Mr. Haycox of the University of Alaska. ''To give her her due, she had the morals and intellectual acumen to do that, but the situation was just waiting for someone to take advantage.''
Perhaps the biggest difference between Alaska and other states comes down to money. Alaska, at the opposite end of the energy equation from the one most Americans know, is booming as never before from the rise in energy prices in the last year.
Thirty-one other states are projecting shortfalls in their state budgets. Alaska is expecting $5 billion more than it can spend in a state with only 680,000 people.
Back when Mr. Knowles was governor, by contrast, oil was $9 to $22 a barrel, which meant year after year of state budget cuts and downsizing. ''I struggled with the things you have to do, laying people off, making ends meet,'' he said.
''That was at a time when Alaska was the only state cutting its budget -- the rest of the world was going through the dot-com age,'' Mr. Knowles said. ''Now we're awash in money.''
But if Ms. Palin's arrival in power just in time for a new boom was good luck, what she did in pushing her agenda -- including a tax increase on the oil industry, building from a process begun by her predecessor -- was more about how Alaskan politics is played. In the process, people here say that a steely populist emerged from behind the sweet smile and the hockey-mom-who-loves-to-fish story line. She worked with Democrats, who are in the minority in the Legislature, to trump members of her own party on several crucial bills, and was not above using her personal popularity in the state to suggest that anyone in the Legislature who disagreed with her was perhaps in the pocket of Big Oil.
''People were afraid to vote 'no' against her,'' said Lyda Green, a state senator and Republican -- and a neighbor of the governor in the Anchorage suburb of Wasilla. In the oil industry tax overhaul, for example, Ms. Green said the pressure became intense.
''Her extraordinary popularity and this intense dislike of the industry that many Alaskans have -- you put those two together and it's tough,'' she said. ''People would go to town meetings and come back feeling compelled to support her.''
A debate is on now as to whether Ms. Palin's policies will be wise for the state in the long run. Some economists have questioned, for example, whether the three-quarters of a billion dollars or so given to Alaskans this summer in the oil-bounty checks (a bill passed this summer with Democratic support in the Legislature), might have been better used in the state's rainy-day fund.
And the oil tax overhaul, which linked state payments to net profits from the oil companies, rather than gross revenue, also exposes the state to potentially deep hits when oil prices decline. There are no neighboring states or regional economies to provide an alternative if the local economy dries up, nor is there a state income tax to fall back on.
''The state has always been exposed, but now it's even more so because the state is now sharing the market risks more with the industry,'' said Matthew Berman, a professor of economics at the Institute of Social and Economic Research at the University of Alaska Anchorage. What might happen if commodity prices plunge is untested territory, he said.
''Nobody knows how the Palin administration is going to react to that, because they haven't faced that problem yet,'' Mr. Berman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The oil industry helps keep the Alaskan economy flush.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (pg. A1)
In keeping with Alaska's informality, Sarah Palin, with an assist by her daughter Piper, served burgers to Ahmed Amer, right, and others at the annual governor's picnic in July 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL GRILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A24) CHART: How Alaska Compares With selected states
State spending per person, 2006
G.D.P. per capita, 2007
 Budget surplus and reserve per person, 2007(Sources: Census Bureau, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Kaiser Family Foundation, Bureau of Economic Analysis, National Association of State Budget Officers) (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); HISTORY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (93%) ALASKA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



77 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS JOHN SIDNEY MCCAIN III; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2490 words

HEADLINE: On Center Stage, Palin Electrifies Convention

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's Republican primary campaign looked all but hopeless. He had risked the wrath of his party to push for an immigration overhaul and now, just months before the Iowa caucuses, his grand compromise was falling apart on the Senate floor as well.
 ''Lindsey, my boy, this may bring us down,'' Mr. McCain said, turning to his friend Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. ''But wasn't it fun?''
 By this spring, when Mr. McCain had astounded political handicappers by virtually locking up the nomination, the thrill of noble defeat had been replaced by an anxious discomfort about his own victory. ''I refuse to believe that this is possible,'' he said, curling up his face during an interview on his campaign plane. ''I tend to be fatalistic about these things.'' 
 As he accepts the Republican presidential nomination on Thursday night in St. Paul, John Sidney McCain III, of Arizona, stands at the pinnacle of a career defined by a singular ambivalence about his own ambition, and success. Time and again, he lunges for the prize, then lashes himself for letting his pursuit get the better of him -- for doing favors for his patron Charles H. Keating Jr., for stooping to ugly attacks on George W. Bush during the 2000 primary, for outbursts of temper at lawmakers who get in his way. 
 It reflects what his brother, Joe McCain, calls a ''public dialectic'' between the senator's drive to succeed and his desire to serve a higher cause. For decades his outward display of that inner conflict has proved advantageous, helping advance his career by forging his image as the un-politician, the candidate with an almost reckless disregard for his own fortunes.
 His critics assert that the McCain of 2008 is not the McCain of 2000, or even 2007. He has surrounded himself with former proteges of Karl Rove, whose tactics he once denounced, embraced positions he once repudiated and initiated a series of attacks on Senator Barack Obama's patriotism that some say resemble the rhetorical rough-housing he regretted eight years ago. ''Bring Back the Real McCain!'' the cover of The Economist magazine implored last week.
 His loyalists, though, say such complaints hold Mr. McCain to the standard of a nostalgic mythology that grew up around his last campaign, overlooking the tough competitor that was there all along. 
 ''He is same guy he has always been, wrestling with all the things he does trying to be the guy he believes he has to be,'' said Mark Salter, Mr. McCain's closest aide. ''But we are not just going to say, 'O.K., we'll just lose -- we will lose graciously -- maybe everybody will remember him fondly.' ''
 It is his combination of lofty aspirations and hard jabs that has made him a political force. 
 ''You can't be above it all and accomplish all that he has accomplished,'' said Bob Kerrey, a Democratic former Senate colleague of Mr. McCain and fellow Vietnam War veteran. ''It's a little like saying that Muhammad Ali was above boxing while he was doing the rope-a-dope. It's a tactic. It's not devious or anything. It is what it is.''
 The Crowded Hour
 Mr. McCain has always had contradictory impulses: he enjoys both boxing and bird watching, cites as favorite movies both ''Viva Zapata!'' and ''A Fish Called Wanda,'' and quotes his idols Henry Kissinger and Henny Youngman. 
 He wins admirers by boasting of the unpopularity of his views -- on campaign finance reform, on the Iraq war, on immigration. An avid gambler, he is drawn to big bets and long odds -- whether picking 1-against-99 fights with his fellow senators over their official perquisites, or defying convention by picking as his running mate a little-known Alaskan with a reputation as an irritant-reformer. He is the most disruptive figure in the Republican Party, and, as of Thursday night, its standard-bearer.
 Until recently, Mr. McCain was one of the few United States senators who drove himself around Washington -- tailgating, dashboard-pounding and cellphone-taking. ''My philosophy is just to go like hell,'' Mr. McCain once explained. ''Full-bore.'' 
 He often invokes ''the crowded hour,'' a term from his political hero, Theodore Roosevelt, referring to the assault on San Juan Hill. In the Roosevelt and McCain lexicon, the phrase equates to a moment of reckoning, when worthy men prove themselves. 
 Aboard his campaign plane in February, Mr. McCain caught his breath after the four months that transformed him from a principled loser to his party's contender for the highest office in the land. ''This has been a very crowded hour for me,'' he said.
 The Self Critic
 Few politicians have apologized as profusely or as fortuitously as Mr. McCain. He may be the only candidate-author whose editor cut back on the self-criticism in the first draft of his campaign memoirs. ''He was quite happy to lacerate himself,'' recalled the editor, Jonathan Karp.
 Joe McCain attributes his brother's habit of public penitence to the example of their father, Adm. John S. McCain Jr. ''He would whack us on the rear end with these leather slippers that he had,'' Joe McCain recalled. ''Then he would come back out rubbing his hands together, and I could tell he felt so bad that I almost felt sorry for the guy.'' 
 Their father expected them to live up to a military code of honor and atone for any lapses, teaching them that it was the only way to retain the respect of those around them.
 ''I think one of John's deepest needs is to be believed and trusted,'' Joe McCain said. After submitting to a forced ''confession'' statement as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, John McCain has said, he found relief from his shame by provoking his guards to beat him.
 John McCain's aspirations were always grand. As a boy, he dreamed of an admiralty like his father's. As the Navy's liaison to the Senate, he set his sights on becoming a member. In Vietnam he had mused aloud to cellmates about becoming president, and as soon as he won his first Senate race in 1986 he ''felt an emotional need to envision some future goal,'' as he recalled in his 2002 memoir, ''Worth the Fighting For.''
 But he exasperated himself with his own self-defeating behavior -- letting his barfly antics as a young pilot undercut his credibility as a Navy officer, or later jeopardizing his friendship with his patrons, Ronald and Nancy Reagan, by leaving his first wife for a glamorous beer heiress 20 years younger, Cindy McCain. ''He has always felt very guilty about it,'' his Navy colleague James McGovern recalled in an interview eight years ago. ''I have never talked with him for more than 40 minutes when he didn't bring it up.''
 For most of his political career, Mr. McCain was a straight-ahead partisan. He voted along party lines, crushed his opponents by outspending them, and sought to run the Senate Republican Campaign Committee. His preferred public image -- the straight-talking maverick -- did not emerge until well after 1989, when he became one of five senators caught up in a scandal over meetings with savings and loan regulators on behalf of Mr. Keating, a wealthy donor. In a marathon news conference and nonstop media interviews, Mr. McCain became the foremost critic of his own poor judgment (any other accusations he called defamation).
 ''The national media was saying, 'John McCain is the only one who is talking about this, and sometimes it seems like he won't shut up,' '' recalled Jay Smith, a political consultant who advised Mr. McCain at the time. As the senator kept talking, ''the scandal seemed to improve markedly for him.'' Seeing that his openness was effective, Mr. McCain later wrote, he adopted it as a permanent ''public relations strategy.''
 Repentance became a theme of his career. He wove his regret over decades of smoking Marlboros into his drive for a tobacco tax overhaul. Then he said he felt ashamed of his own party for neglecting children's health by blocking the bill. He even organized his best-selling 1999 memoir, ''Faith of My Fathers,'' as a confession. Written with Mr. Salter, his longtime aide, as a springboard to the 2000 presidential race, it catalogs his decades of misbehavior leading to the realization in a Vietnamese prison of the deeper satisfaction of ''a cause greater than myself.'' Soon he was turning the Keating episode into a similar parable of short-sighted self-interest. 
 In the 2000 Republican primary, Mr. McCain sometimes seemed to be battling his own impulses as much as he was his rival, Mr. Bush. He opened the year with a speech in New Hampshire denouncing contemporary politics as ''little more than a spectacle of selfish ambition'' and pledging to take the high ground. At the same event, however, his campaign passed out a news release falsely asserting that Mr. Bush's ''political'' tax plan would ''put Social Security in danger.'' Mr. McCain was apologizing by the end of the day. 
 Operatives on both sides say Mr. McCain gave as well as he got for most of the race. ''It was McCain on the stump fighting the 'Death Star,' '' -- his epithet for the Bush juggernaut, Mr. Salter recalled. 
 But when his opponents unleashed anonymous phone calls and fliers spreading rumors about his family before the South Carolina primary, Mr. McCain fired back with a commercial accusing Mr. Bush of lying like President Bill Clinton. Its tone backfired, hurting Mr. McCain more than his target. Advisers pushed for a better attack but acknowledged they could not win the state. Instead Mr. McCain insisted on publicly apologizing and pulling the commercials. ''So we died on higher ground,'' said John Weaver, a former aide.
 A few months later, Mr. McCain was back in the state apologizing for holding his tongue about his disdain for the Confederate flag to try to win the race.
 ''I will be criticized by all sides for my late act of contrition,'' Mr. McCain declared. ''I accept it, all of it. I deserve it.'' 
 His loss in South Carolina made him a martyr: the politician too good for politics. ''He came out of that primary the most popular politician in the country,'' Mr. Weaver recalled. 
 ''Is he crazy like a fox?'' Mr. Weaver added. ''Listen, he is a very good intuitive politician, and he is a lot smarter politically than those of us around him or he wouldn't be where he is at.'' 
 Former opponents marvel at Mr. McCain's political alchemy. ''He takes a past failing, hangs it around his neck, and wears it like a medal,'' said Kevin Madden, who worked for Mitt Romney in the primary. 
 The Candidate
 There is a part of John McCain that revels in his failures. ''Sitting around, feeling sorry for myself'' after losing in 2000 was ''wonderful'' he sometimes says. ''Delicious,'' he recalls, with sarcasm but also a certain relish. 
 His 2007 stint as the Republican front-runner did not go well. ''I'm much better in this environment,'' he said in South Carolina after his campaign was nearly broke, he had spiraled in the polls and shed much of his staff.
 And winning can be imprisoning, Mr. McCain has found. For much of the summer, he had seemed merely dutiful on the trail, going through the motions. His aides have since imposed a new discipline, shielding him from the news media, scripting a daily message and reining in his tendency to improvise.
 ''At heart, he's a maverick, and the maverick doesn't like the corral,'' said Mark McKinnon, a close aide to President Bush and Mr. McCain who is not involved in the campaign. ''But the corral is where he is. And it's working.'' 
 Mr. McCain's advisers say he hoped to pick up his 2008 campaign where his 2000 race left off -- bucking convention, running against politics. He started his run against the Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama, with an apology. Standing on the balcony of the Memphis hotel where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was shot, he told a mostly black crowd that he had made a mistake years ago in opposing a federal holiday for King. 
 He toured the heavily black areas of the South, an unlikely trip for a Republican running against an African-American. And for awhile, he skipped over the attack lines against Mr. Obama that advisers had inserted into his speeches. When Mr. Obama declined his invitation to a series of town-hall-style meetings, Mr. McCain went solo, drawing scant attention from the news media. 
 ''None of it got through -- nothing,'' Mr. Salter said of Mr. McCain's message. 
 By midsummer, Mr. McCain had put the campaign in the hands of Steve Schmidt, a former aide to President Bush (and a fan of Ultimate Fighting). The campaign began a barrage of advertisements that ridiculed Mr. Obama as a celebrity, accused him of indifference to wounded American soldiers, and asserted that he put politics ahead of victory in Iraq.
 He stepped up his behind-the-scenes courtship of influential conservative leaders with whom he had clashed in the past. And he abandoned past calls for the party to moderate its opposition to abortion in order to let activists draft what many called the most conservative platform in the party's history.
 If Mr. McCain has any ambivalence about the conduct of his campaign, he no longer displays it in public. Friends say he wants to become president and is learning how to get there.
 ''John has always seen politics as an adventure,'' his friend Mr. Graham said. ''I'm trying to get him to think of it as a business.'' 
 The choice of Sarah Palin exemplified both. Her resolute opposition to abortion fired up conservative activists to get out the vote for Mr. McCain's election. But Mr. McCain's advisers say he sees her the way he sees himself--as an upstart outsider who shook up her state's corrupt Republican establishment. ''The 'old McCain' is still there -- look at the Palin pick,'' Mr. Salter said. 
 The surprise was also a glimpse of how Mr. McCain might govern. Mr. McCain promises in every speech that as president he would put country first, but his notions of honor and disregard for his popularity can make him an unpredictable patriot. He is a conservative committed to limited government, except when he sees a greater cause like global warming, campaign corruption or children's health. He boasts that he stood by the Iraq war long after the public turned against it, but also says he would never risk American troops abroad without deep public support.
 His associates say Mr. McCain has come to see the presidential race in starkly moral terms, convinced that Mr. Obama's election would weaken America at a decisive moment for the security of the world. But Mr. McCain is also the first to confess that not all his drives are so selfless.
 ''I didn't decide to run for president to start a national crusade for the political reforms I believed in or to run a campaign as if it were some grand act of patriotism,'' he wrote in 2002. ''In truth, I wanted to be president because it had become my ambition to be president.'' He added, ''I had had the ambition for a long time.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Sarah Palin accepting the vice-presidential nomination Wednesday night at the Republican National Convention.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FEB. 4, 2008 The day before the biggest primary contest of the season, Senator John McCain campaigned in Boston on the turf of a rival, Mitt Romney.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JULY 14, 1961 Lieutenant McCain, with his parents, Roberta Wright McCain and Rear Admiral McCain, below a portrait of the first Admiral McCain.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FEB. 15, 2000 Mr. McCain in a debate in South Carolina with two of his Republican rivals, Alan Keyes and George W. Bush, moderated by Larry King.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY ERIC DRAPER)
 JAN. 4, 1991 Mr. McCain testifying before the Senate Ethics Committee on the savings and loan scandal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN) (pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (73%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (74%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



78 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Easiest Task for Palin May Have Been Speech

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Gov. Sarah Palin could not have asked for a better setting for her solo debut on the national stage: an audience enthralled with her selection as Senator John McCain's running mate even before she walked on stage to a roar of approval, after three days in seclusion with some of the country's most skilled political counselors to write, hone and practice her speech.
 She drew warm applause as she described her life in Alaska and introduced her family. She heard cheers as she promised an aggressive energy policy that included more drilling. And Ms. Palin ignited a loud round of approving boos as she denounced the news media and ''Washington elite'' that she suggested had ganged up against her since Mr. McCain announced Friday that she would be the Republican vice-presidential nominee. 
 But her speech at the Republican National Convention, if delivered with confidence and ecstatically embraced in the hall, may prove to have been the easy part. 
 From here, Ms. Palin moves into a national campaign where she will have to appeal to audiences that are not necessarily primed to adore her. She will have to navigate far less controlled campaign settings that will test not only her political skills but also her knowledge of foreign and domestic policy. And she must convince the country she is prepared to be vice president at a time when the definition of that job has been elevated to the status of governing partner -- something voters might have been reminded of Wednesday by images of Vice President Dick Cheney embarking on a mission to war-torn Georgia.
 ''The people who are in the hall -- they've already been sold, they are the choir,'' said John C. Danforth, a former Republican senator from Missouri,. ''Now the question for her and for McCain and for everybody who is inside the hall is how to clarify their message to the American people.''
 But what is that message? Her speech left no doubt that she would take on the traditional role of a ticket's No. 2, attacking the top of the other ticket, which she did repeatedly and with gusto.
 ''I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a community organizer, except that you have actual responsibilities,'' Ms. Palin said, a slash of the sword at Senator Barack Obama's job as young man working on antipoverty programs in Chicago. 
 The remark capped three days in which Republicans have sought to say it is Mr. Obama, and not this first-term governor from a small-population state, who does not have the experience to be president.
 The question is whether someone who is so little known and has what even Republicans describe as a scant resume has the authority to make those attacks credible -- unlike, say, her counterpart on the Democratic side, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, a veteran of foreign and domestic policy who attacked Mr. McCain last week. It is also unclear if the sharp and often mocking tone of her attacks -- combined with her general avoidance of such key issues as the economy -- might turn off swing voters across the country.
 ''It's more difficult with someone of her background to go on the attack than it would be for Joe Biden,'' said Warren Rudman, a former Republican senator from New Hampshire. ''Before she attacks someone, she has to get out there and define herself.''
 Clearly, her big task on Wednesday and in the days ahead was to drive home the image the McCain campaign has sought to attach to this unexpected pick: the corruption-fighting governor from outside Washington, a socially conservative mother of five who can easily connect with working-class Americans in a way that Mr. Obama has so far had trouble doing. She scorned the trappings of elitism -- she talked about driving herself to work, and how she put the Alaska governor's plane up for sale on eBay -- as she signaled that she would serve as Mr. McCain's ambassador to Americans who think the government has lost touch with their values and needs. She went as far to compare herself to a haberdasher from Missouri who became vice president and later president, Harry S. Truman.
 The problem for Ms. Palin is that that story has been tripped up by disclosures about her professional and personal life, enough so that at least until Wednesday, she had become a bigger figure at this convention than Mr. McCain.
 In her speech, she tried to address that by belittling what she disparaged as the Washington elite and the news media -- a sure-fire applause line at these kinds of events -- and invoking her own experience as a reformer. Yet she made no effort to say what she might do as a vice president, no small question when her lack of a national or international portfolio suggests she would not slide easily into the kind of full partner role enjoyed by Mr. Cheney and Al Gore.
 ''The Gore-Cheney series of vice presidencies have changed the nature of the job,'' said Gary Hart, a former Democratic senator from Colorado and a friend of Mr. McCain. ''What McCain has done is to try to revert to the 19th-century model, early-20th-century model of vice president -- the 'job isn't worth a warm pitcher of spit' model, which means you don't do anything.''
 ''But we don't live in that kind of world anymore,'' Mr. Hart said. And, he said, that is a particularly relevant question given Mr. McCain's age -- 72 -- and health problems. ''I'm sure John thinks he can live forever, or at least for eight years,'' Mr. Hart said.
 In an interview a month ago on CNBC, Ms. Palin went so far as to disparage the job of vice president, saying, ''What is it exactly that the V.P. does every day?''
 The one role she is going to play -- and one that Mr. Cheney played -- is helping to motivate the right wing of her party. The uproarious applause that capped her speech left little doubt that she had already moved easily into the job -- a big lift for Mr. McCain, who has always had difficulty persuading social conservatives to trust him.
 The question for the governor of Alaska, as she heads out across the country on her first national campaign, is whether she can do for Mr. McCain in a general election what she did last night with this audiences of delegates at the Xcel Energy Center.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The crowd at the Republican National Convention after Senator John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin left the stage on Wednesday following her vice-presidential acceptance speech.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); MAYORS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



79 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: The Georgia Conflict: Plenty of Blame to Go Around

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''NATO's Disastrous Georgian Fudge,'' by Roger Cohen (column, Sept. 1):
 I disagree with Mr. Cohen's assessment of blame for the current disaster in Georgia. 
 The disaster was not in NATO's inadequate response to Russia's moves into Georgia, but in encouraging Georgia to think that it could challenge Russia in its own backyard and then demonstrating that beyond angry words and humanitarian aid, it was powerless to confront Russia. 
 Ever since President Bush took office, the United States has defied Russia by expanding NATO to its borders, abrogating the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, placing antiballistic missile systems near its borders and encouraging Ukraine and Georgia to think they could come under the NATO mutual defense blanket.
 When will we learn that offensive actions bring defensive reactions?
 Rather than confronting Russia, we should be finding ways to bring it into the community of nations on an equal basis.
 Jim Hinkle Cummaquid, Mass., Sept. 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It is important to note the deeper historical implications of the situation in Georgia, especially as relates to the precipitation of World War I. 
 Germany and the Austro-Hungarian Empire comprised many of the countries that are now independent and part of the European Union. Russia was allied with Serbia when Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated in 1914 by a Serbian nationalist. Germany joined with Austria against Serbia, which brought Russia and all of Europe into the war. 
 The Bush administration has pushed for Georgian and Ukrainian membership in NATO. It has armed and trained Georgian forces and set itself up as a protector of Georgia. The ability of the Bush administration to contain a potentially explosive situation in the Caucasus is worrisome, given its record. 
 I think an effective measure against Russia's lack of respect for uniformly agreed national borders would be for the European Union to declare a ''no gas day,'' when nobody would use natural gas for a day. 
 That would result in a significant economic loss for Russia's gas industry and be a sign to Russia that not only politicians are concerned about antiquated aggressive action and possible escalation. Most concerned are the millions of ordinary people who could end up dying or maimed for lack of mature and careful diplomacy.
 Stephen Redner Coaraze, France, Sept. 1, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I don't want to come across as pro-Russian, anti-American, anti-European Union or anti-NATO. But I think it should be stressed that the provinces of Abkhazia and South Ossetia don't want to be part of Georgia. Even within the old Soviet Union, they had separate administrative identities. 
 Granted, after a complete discussion of all of the issues, one may well conclude that Russia overreacted, Georgia needs Western support and so on. But shouldn't the discussion include the issue of self-determination of the Abkhazians and Ossetians? 
 Do the United States and NATO really want to get into the middle of yet another ethnic conflict? Is there any evidence that the United States or NATO would do a better job than Russia is doing? Shouldn't the world develop a venue other than NATO to resolve conflicts like the Abkhazians and Ossetians versus Georgia versus Russia? 
 Mr. Cohen asks, ''Could more have been done to bring Russia into this new European 'architecture'?'' He answers, ''I think not.'' I wish he had discussed whether admitting Russia into NATO might be an option. He might still have said it wasn't, but that certainly deserved discussion.
 Paul Pitlick Palo Alto, Calif., Sept. 1, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen's call for Georgia and Ukraine to be given Membership Action Plan status with NATO gives no consideration to the Georgian and Ukrainian citizens who do not wish to join NATO.
 How is it that the South Ossetians, the Abkhazians and the Russian-speaking Ukrainians do not have the right to choose their destinies? It is highly hypocritical for the United States to ''free'' some people while enslaving others.
 This is the same kind of thinking that allows the Kosovo Albanians to be given freedom by the United States and its NATO allies, while the Serbs are ... free to leave.
 It was not Russia that opened Pandora's box. It was opened earlier this year by a much more powerful and sophisticated country when it recognized Kosovo.
 Stanisha Ognjanovich London, Sept. 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); WORLD WAR I (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); AUSTRIA (88%); UKRAINE (88%); FRANCE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



80 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Running Against Themselves

 BODY:
Three days into the Republican National Convention, it is clear that the G.O.P. has settled on a message: ''Washington is not working.'' The phrase is included in virtually every speech and every statement in St Paul. 
 We agree completely that Washington is in desperate need of renewal and reform. We're not even going to quibble about the fact that Barack Obama said it first. The problem is that American voters have yet to hear -- from John McCain or his warm-up acts -- any serious ideas on what, exactly, is wrong with Washington, apart from the fact that a Democrat might win the White House, never mind how to truly fix it. 
 The difficulty for the Republican ticket in talking about change and reform and acting like insurgents is that they have been running Washington -- the White House and Congress -- for most of the last eight years. 
 Sarah Palin, the vice presidential nominee, was a combative and witty relief at a torpid convention. But it was bizarre hearing the running mate of a 26-year veteran of Congress, a woman who was picked to placate the right-wing elite, mocking ''the permanent political establishment in Washington.''
 And we couldn't imagine what Mitt Romney was thinking when he denounced ''liberal Washington'' and then, at the convention of the party that brought you unimpeded presidential spying, declared: ''It's time for the party of big ideas, not the party of Big Brother!''
 As hard as he tries, Mr. McCain cannot escape the burdensome shadow of President Bush because his policies offer no real change. On the all-important issue of the economy, Mr. McCain has no prescription for ending the mortgage-driven crisis or for fixing the huge fiscal problems Mr. Bush has bequeathed the nation. He wants to make even deeper cuts in corporate taxes, eliminate the alternative minimum income tax and make permanent the Bush tax cuts that vastly favor the wealthy and that he once correctly opposed. 
 His only idea for balancing the budget seems to be controlling earmarks, which Republicans now denounce with the sort of single-minded fervor they used to reserve for Democratic-appointed judges.
 Permanently extending the tax cuts would reduce tax revenue by $1 trillion over four years. If Mr. McCain eliminated every earmark (including money for the gas pipeline that Ms. Palin wants to build in Alaska), the savings would total about $18 billion a year. He hasn't offered any idea of where he'll get the rest of the money. 
 He has not explained how he plans to rein in out-of-control financial firms and avoid a repeat of the mortgage disaster. Mr. Bush's ideological opposition to sound government regulation is in large measure to blame for the economic crisis, but when Mr. McCain talks about fixing Washington, that subject never comes up.
 Mr. McCain also has yet to explain to voters how he intends to go on paying for the war in Iraq -- and also fix a dangerously stretched and overburdened military. Mr. McCain talks about energy independence. But his primary solution is not a solution: drilling and more drilling. 
 Mr. McCain says he is the candidate who will better protect the country from terrorism. But about all he has to offer is his pledge to continue the war in Iraq. We have yet to hear an explanation for how he plans to do that while also salvaging the war in Afghanistan -- the real front line in the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban. 
 Now that everyone agrees that Washington needs fixing, we hope Mr. McCain will offer more than partisan boilerplate when he addresses the convention on Thursday night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); JUDGES (67%); BUDGETS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



81 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Palin Speaks!

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
 Sarah Palin came out of hiding Wednesday night, and boy, she seemed ticked off.
 ''Here's a little news flash for all those reporters and commentators: I'm not going to Washington to win their good opinion,'' said the moose-gutting, polar bear-trashing, aerobics-class-networking vice presidential nominee.
 This was shortly after two very prominent Republican commentators got caught trashing Palin's candidacy when they thought an MSNBC microphone had been turned off. There has been a lot of that going around this year, people. We can do better. In the years to come, let us teach our children that if you can't say anything nice about somebody, step away from the voice enhancement equipment. 
 The speech was very well done. The Palin family -- who we're supposed to ignore, but they did sort of seem to be pretty much front and center -- were adorable. And she was way more effective than the keynote speaker, Rudy Giuliani, at the red-meat-tossing detail. If you're going to be really mean for an extended period of time, it's better if you don't look as if you want to lunge for the throat of the cameramen.
 We had been waiting for a long time to hear from Palin, who went to the mattresses almost immediately after she was introduced to the nation by John McCain last week. What followed was a long line of unexpected revelations, from the fabled teenage pregnancy to my own personal favorite: the threat to fire the town librarian who refused to censor books. 
 Last night, Palin blamed the confusion and complaints on the news media, which hates her because she is ''not a member in good standing of the Washington elite.''
 John McCain, the member of the Washington elite who picked her, was temporarily unavailable for comment.
 Palin's speech totally swallowed up all the attention in St. Paul, leaving nothing whatsoever for speakers like Mitt Romney, who celebrated the convention Reform Day by announcing: ''We need change all right! Change from a liberal Washington to a conservative Washington.'' Tragically, nobody seemed interested enough to point out that this made no sense. It's a long way from the golden days when Mitt invented the ''Washington is Broken'' slogan, and people took the time to ask him exactly who he thought had done the breaking. 
 It's been one big reunion in Minnesota for the old gang -- Rudy and Mitt and Fred and Mike. Together again, for the first time since those primary debates. Reliving the golden days in which they managed to convince Republican voters that no matter what John McCain's defects, he could not possibly be as bad a candidate as they were. 
 Did you see Fred Thompson? We had forgotten the electricity that is Fred until his speech on Tuesday, when he railed at the Democrats for overplaying Americans' economic woes. (''Listening to them, you'd think we were in the middle of the Great Depression.'') It was that same instinctive connection to the common man that had caused him to refer to the problems of unemployed Detroit factory workers as something that ''you always find in a vibrant, dynamic economy.'' 
 Reform Day was, of course, tailor-made for Palin, who is all about reform. Particularly, reforming the Republican party. Normally, in a democracy, the way you reform a party is by tossing it out of power until it learns its lesson and gets its act together. But the McCain-Palin plan is to reform Republicanism by keeping Republicans in control of the White House and most of the powerful posts in the federal government. That'll show them.
 Also fiscal reform. How many times have you heard McCain promise to slash taxes and pay for it by eliminating unnecessary programs? And who better to help carry out that agenda than the governor of a state whose residents pay less taxes than anyplace else in the union due to their genius in making the federal government pay the tab for virtually everything?
 ''Taxpayers have an advocate in Sarah Palin!'' said Giuliani in his keynote speech. Rudy had been extremely busy all day. In a stroke of genius, someone picked him to run around to the TV shows before Palin's address to defend McCain for picking her after having met her only once. When he was mayor, Giuliani hired people who had been in his inner circle since about the third grade. And most of them were terrible! So you see, there are lots of ways to screw up a big hire besides not thinking about it until the last minute. 
 For all her great skills at presentation, many people, including some Republicans who think the microphone is off, believe that Sarah Palin is a terrible choice for running mate. But you have to remember who the other options were. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); CENSORSHIP (63%); ADOLESCENTS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%); MITT ROMNEY (56%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



82 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: On Center Stage, Palin Electrifies Convention

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
ST. PAUL -- Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska introduced herself to America before a roaring crowd at the Republican National Convention on Wednesday night as ''just your average hockey mom'' who was as qualified as the Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama, to be president of the United States.
An hour later Senator John McCain, a scrappy, rebellious former prisoner of war in Vietnam whose campaign was resurrected from near-death a year ago, was nominated by the Republican Party to be the 44th president of the United States after asking the cheering delegates, ''Do you think we made the right choice'' in picking Ms. Palin as the vice-presidential nominee?
The roll-call vote made Mr. McCain, 72, the first Republican presidential candidate to share the ticket with a woman and only the second presidential candidate from a major party to do so, after Walter F. Mondale selected Geraldine A. Ferraro as his running mate for the Democratic ticket in 1984. 
But the nomination was a sideshow to the evening's main event, the speech by the little-known Ms. Palin, who was seeking to wrest back the narrative of her life and redefine herself to the American public after a rocky start that has put Mr. McCain's closest aides on edge. Ms. Palin's appearance electrified a convention that has been consumed by questions of whether she was up to the job, as she launched slashing attacks on Mr. Obama's claims of experience.
''Before I became governor of the great state of Alaska, I was mayor of my hometown,'' Ms. Palin told the delegates in a speech that sought to eviscerate Mr. Obama, as delegates waved signs that said ''I love hockey moms.'' ''And since our opponents in this presidential election seem to look down on that experience, let me explain to them what the job involves. I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a 'community organizer,' except that you have actual responsibilities.''
As the crowd cheered its approval, Ms. Palin went on: ''I might add that in small towns we don't quite know what to make of a candidate who lavishes praise on working people when they are listening, and then talks about how bitterly they cling to their religion and guns when those people aren't listening.''
Ms. Palin was referring to Mr. Obama's experience as a community organizer in Chicago before he served in the Illinois legislature and was elected to the United States Senate in 2004 as well as comments he made at a fundraiser in California about bitter rural voters who ''cling'' to guns and religion.
The address by Ms. Palin, 44, who stunned the political world last week as Mr. McCain's pick for a running mate, took place before a convention transformed from an orderly coronation into a messy, days-long drama since the McCain campaign's disclosure on Monday that Ms. Palin's 17-year-old daughter, Bristol, was pregnant. Since then there have been a host of other distractions, including Hurricane Gustav, questions about how thoroughly Mr. McCain vetted what people close to his campaign have called the last-minute pick of Ms. Palin, and charges from Mr. McCain's top aides that the news media have launched a sexist smear campaign against his running mate.
''I'm not a member of the permanent political establishment,'' Ms. Palin said in her remarks, which took aim at the news media as the crowd began lustily booing the press. ''And I've learned quickly, these past few days, that if you're not a member in good standing of the Washington elite, then some in the media consider a candidate unqualified for that reason alone. But here's a little news flash for all those reporters and commentators: I'm not going to Washington to seek their good opinion; I'm going to Washington to serve the people of this country.''
Ms. Palin spent the first part of her speech introducing her family one by one to the crowd, including her husband, Todd. ''We met in high school, and two decades and five children later he's still my guy,'' Ms. Palin said.
Ms. Palin also displayed humor in one of her biggest lines of the night when she said that ''the difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull'' was ''lipstick.''
Ms. Palin's speech was the big draw of a convention night notable for not a single mention from the stage of the unpopular president, George W. Bush, who addressed the delegates Tuesday via satellite from the White House after the hurricane forced him to cancel his appearance.
Ms. Palin's speech came after Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York launched a withering attack on Mr. Obama as part of a relentless assault by Republicans arguing that Ms. Palin, the former mayor of a town of less than 7,000 people who has been governor of Alaska for 20 months, had a more impressive resume than Mr. Obama.
''She already has more executive experience than the entire Democratic ticket,'' said Mr. Giuliani, one of three former rivals of Mr. McCain for the nomination, including former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, who took on Mr. Obama in speeches Wednesday evening.
''Barack Obama has never led anything, nothing, nada,'' Mr. Giuliani said, then launched an attack on people who have questioned whether Ms. Palin will have enough energy to focus on the vice presidency as the mother of five. ''How dare they question whether Sarah Palin has enough time to spend with her children and be vice president,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''How dare they do that? When do they ever ask a man that question?''
The criticism of Mr. Obama reinforced new television commercials by the McCain campaign that similarly belittled the Democratic nominee's experience. The campaign and its surrogates also took on what they called biased and sexist coverage of Ms. Palin.
In her address, Ms. Palin criticized Mr. Obama on foreign policy and national security issues as she tried to display comfort on those areas. She also embraced one of Mr. McCain's favorite mantras this summer, ''drill now,'' a call for more offshore oil exploration as a solution to record-high gasoline prices.
''Our opponents say, again and again, that drilling will not solve all of America's energy problems, as if we all didn't know that already,'' Ms. Palin said. ''But the fact that drilling won't solve every problem is no excuse to do nothing at all. Starting in January, in a McCain-Palin administration, we're going to lay more pipelines, build more nuclear plants, create jobs with clean coal and move forward on solar, wind, geothermal and other alternative sources.''
The speech was the first public emergence for Ms. Palin since arriving here Sunday, two days after Mr. McCain named her as his running mate. Ms. Palin has spent her time in a hotel suite with her husband, Todd, and their five children preparing for her speech and the questions on foreign policy, national security and family matters that she will face from the news media when the McCain campaign makes her available to reporters. Their son Track, 19, deploys overseas for the Army next month.
Democrats, who have held much of their fire this week as the Republican melodrama has played out in Minnesota, criticized the convention as failing so far to address the concerns of ordinary Americans.
''You did not hear a single word about the economy,'' Mr. Obama told an audience on in New Philadelphia, Ohio, before Ms. Palin's speech. ''Not once did they mention the hardships that people are going through.''
Mr. McCain landed in Minneapolis on Wednesday afternoon and was greeted on the tarmac by Ms. Palin, her family and his family in a striking multigenerational tableau, 16 strong, with the youngest member Trig Palin, Sarah Palin's 4-month-old, who has Down syndrome. Later, in Mr. McCain's appearance at the convention, he praised the Palins as ''a beautiful family.''
Delegates said they were enthralled by Ms. Palin. ''I think she's great; she's giving it back to the Democrats for all the sorry things they've said about her and about America,'' said Anita Bargas, a delegate from Angleton, Tex. ''She's a conservative, and she has a great sense of humor.''
With Ms. Palin facing a torrent of inquiries from reporters, Mr. McCain joined other Republicans in assailing news outlets when he told ABC News in an interview on Wednesday that ''Sarah Palin has 24,000 employees in the state government'' and was ''responsible for 20 percent of the nation's energy supply.'' He added that he was entertained by the comparison of her experience to that of Mr. Obama and that ''I hope we can keep making that comparison that running a political campaign is somehow comparable to being the executive of the largest state in America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Sarah Palin accepting the vice-presidential nomination Wednesday night at the Republican National Convention.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Senator John McCain joined the Palins on stage. From left, they were Track Palin, Bristol Palin, Levi Johnston, Willow Palin, Todd Palin and his son Trig, Mr. McCain, Piper Palin and Sarah Palin.
 Rudolph W. Giuliani addressed the Republican convention Wednesday night and praised the selection of Sarah Palin.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TODD PALIN (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



83 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Bush Proposes Aiding Georgia With $1 Billion

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Peter Baker contributed reporting from St. Paul, and Helene Cooper from Washington.

DATELINE: BAKU, Azerbaijan 

 BODY:
President Bush proposed $1 billion in humanitarian and economic assistance on Wednesday to help rebuild Georgia after its short, disastrous war with Russia last month, but he stopped short of committing the United States to re-equipping its battered military.
 Mr. Bush announced the infusion of aid as Vice President Dick Cheney arrived here in what he described as a demonstration that the United States had ''a deep and abiding interest'' in keeping Georgia and other neighboring states free from a new era of Russian domination.
 The aid -- along with Mr. Cheney's high-profile visit to a region the Russians call ''the near abroad'' -- is sure to inflame tensions further. Russia's leaders have openly accused the United States of having provoked the conflict by providing Georgia weapons and training for its armed forces, while encouraging its aspirations to join the NATO alliance.
 The new package of aid, which requires additional approval from Congress, significantly expands assistance to a country that has become ardently pro-American in recent years, though at the cost of the worst relations between the United States and Russia since the end of the cold war. 
 The aid would dwarf the $63 million the United States provided to Georgia last year, roughly a third of it for training its soldiers, police officers and border guards. Excluding Iraq, the infusion would make Georgia one of the largest recipients of American foreign aid after Israel and Egypt. The United States has provided about $1.8 billion over all in the 17 years since Georgia gained independence from the collapsing Soviet Union. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, appearing in Washington, said that $570 million of the aid would be made available this year, while the rest would depend on approval by a new administration and a new Congress. It does not include any military aid, she and other administration officials said.
 The initial money, Mr. Bush said in a statement, would be used to feed and shelter tens of thousands of Georgians displaced during the fighting that began on the night of Aug. 7 when Georgia tried to establish control over a breakaway region, South Ossetia, only to be driven back by Russian forces. Mr. Bush also pledged to support its transition to a democratic market economy.
 ''Georgia has a strong economic foundation and leaders with an impressive record of reform,'' Mr. Bush said in his statement. ''Our additional economic assistance will help the people of Georgia recover from the assault on their country and continue to build a prosperous and competitive economy.''
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin have already complained that humanitarian supplies delivered by the American Navy and Air Force were a disguise for delivering new weapons, accusations that administration officials have dismissed as baseless. 
 The American military has so far delivered $30 million in emergency aid, including 1,200 tons of food and relief supplies like tents, delivered by 61 Air Force jets and two Navy ships plying the Black Sea. Mr. Bush also ordered federal agencies to expand trading opportunities between the United States and Georgia and to provide maritime insurance for ships docking in Georgia. 
 ''The free world cannot allow the destiny of a small independent country to be determined by the aggression of a larger neighbor,'' Ms. Rice said in Washington. 
 She also took the occasion to deride the Russian recognition of South Ossetia and the other breakaway Georgia region, Abkhazia, noting that few countries had followed the Russian example. ''It isn't really an impressive list to have Abkhazia and South Ossetia recognize each other,'' she said.
 The new announcement followed a pledge by the European Union this week to contribute funds to Georgia's reconstruction, and an agreement by the International Monetary Fund to provide Georgia with $750 million in financing. 
 All of those steps have demonstrated broad international support for Georgia's government and its president, Mikheil Saakashvili, whom Mr. Medvedev called ''a political corpse'' this week. Still, there seemed to be little pressure the United States and European countries could exert to persuade Russia to back down in its confrontation with Mr. Saakashvili's government. Many administration officials worry that overthrowing Mr. Saakashvili's government is Russia's unwavering intention.
 While the administration has made its political, diplomatic and economic support for Georgia abundantly clear, however, it has yet to settle on what steps, if any, it will take to punish Russia. It has failed to do so even as American and European officials vehemently protest that Russia continues to violate a French-brokered agreement to end the fighting and withdraw Russian troops from Georgian territory.
 The administration is expected to announce soon that it will withdraw its support for an agreement with Russia on civil nuclear cooperation, a linchpin of Mr. Bush's nonproliferation policies, officials said, though one cautioned that a final decision had not been made. 
 That agreement already faced skepticism in Congress, though it would still be a significant step to scuttle an international agreement that Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin hailed as an important achievement. Georgia has also pressed the administration to move quickly to rebuild its armed forces. While officials have acknowledged considering that, they have also indicated that they have reservations about adding fuel to a conflict that is far from resolved.
 An expanded package of humanitarian and economic assistance is not likely to face significant opposition in Congress. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the chairman of the Foreign Relations committee and now the Democratic vice presidential candidate, has already expressed support for a sizable aid package. 
 Mr. Cheney directly challenged Russia's dismissal of Georgia's elected leader here in Azerbaijan on Wednesday, the first of three stops to bolster the resolve of countries in the face of a newly assertive and much larger neighbor. Mr. Cheney is the highest-ranking American to visit Azerbaijan since its independence in 1991. He is scheduled to visit Georgia on Thursday, followed by Ukraine.
 ''We met this evening in the shadow of the recent Russian invasion of Georgia, an act that has been clearly condemned by the international community,'' Mr. Cheney told Azerbaijan's president, Ilham Aliyev, in a meeting at the presidential residence in Zagulba Baglari on the Caspian coast. 
 ''President Bush has sent me here with a clear and simple message to the people of Azerbaijan and the entire region: The United States has deep and abiding interests in your well-being and security.''
 Azerbaijan, like Georgia, is a former Soviet republic that has sought closer ties to the West and the United States, and it is a vital crossroads for oil and gas from the Caspian Sea and beyond that from Central Asia. 
 Underscoring the point, Mr. Cheney's first meetings here in Baku were with representatives of two international oil companies: William Schrader of BP Azerbaijan and Robert Dastmalchi of Chevron, according to a spokeswoman, Megan M. Mitchell. Those meetings came a day after Mr. Putin announced plans for a new natural gas pipeline from Central Asia to Russia, a route that would increase Russia's role in providing natural gas to Europe. Mr. Cheney, who in 2006 accused Russia of using its natural resources as ''tools of intimidation or blackmail,'' expressed the administration's strong support for seeking alternate routes for oil and natural gas from Central Asia and the Caspian. 
 ''The United States strongly believes that, together with the nations of Europe, including Turkey, we must work with Azerbaijan and other countries in the Caucasus and Central Asia on additional routes for energy exports that ensure the free flow of resources,'' he said. ''Energy security is essential to us all, and the matter is becoming increasingly urgent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Georgian woman who fled her village after a Russian attack passed by a bust of Lenin on Wednesday inside a Soviet-era ministry building in Tbilisi, the Georgian capital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER LABAN-MATTEI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); APPROVALS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NAVIES (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (74%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); GEORGIA (95%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



84 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Help for Georgia

 BODY:
The Kremlin's leaders continue to bluster and preen in the wake of their invasion of Georgia. Dmitri Medvedev, the Russian president, urged Washington this week to abandon Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili -- calling him a ''political corpse'' -- and claimed a ''sphere of influence'' outside Russian borders. His foreign minister warned Europe that countries dependent on Russian energy had better look to their ''core interests.'' 
 The Bush administration responded Wednesday, proposing $1 billion in American reconstruction aid for Georgia, which needs the help. Moscow needs to understand that the West will not be intimidated into abandoning a struggling democracy.
 The administration must also keep up the pressure on Russia to withdraw its remaining troops from Georgia and permit deployment of neutral peacekeepers. Its decisions to suspend military exercises and a civilian nuclear deal, worth billions to Moscow, were sensible. 
 While the Kremlin's leaders may be feeling invincible Russia's business class clearly is not. Since early August, more than $7 billion in capital has fled the country.
 At the same time, the administration -- which allowed this crisis to get out of hand -- must be careful not to incite more conflict or give the Kremlin any more excuses. We are especially nervous about Vice President Dick Cheney's visit to the region this week. He must make clear to Mr. Saakashvili -- who fell into Moscow's trap when he sent troops into South Ossetia -- that Washington will not support any attempt to retake two breakaway regions by force. Any aid from the Pentagon must be used to strengthen Georgia's defenses, not invite more adventurism. 
 Mr. Saakashvili needs to understand that Georgia's best defense is to focus on building an economically vibrant democracy with firm ties to the West. 
 The Europeans have been more hesitant than we would like -- swayed in part by those ''core interests.'' But they are moving in the right direction. 
 On Monday, the European Union affirmed support for Georgia's territorial integrity, but it postponed a decision on suspending talks with Russia on a new economic and security pact. They shouldn't delay too long. 
 Russia has vast oil and gas wealth, thousands of nuclear weapons and a veto on the United Nations Security Council. It is also a poorly developed, corrupt and fragile country with a lot to lose. While many Russians are exulting in the Kremlin's new assertiveness, we suspect few are eager to return to the bad old days of isolation. 
 The West has some leverage. It must use it firmly and carefully. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (90%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008



85 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
MOTORCADE, EN ROUTE TO PREMIER,
Is Attacked in Pakistan
Shots were fired at the motorcade of Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani of Pakistan near the capital, Islamabad, but Mr. Gilani was not in the motorcade at the time, Pakistani officials said. The highway on which the attack occurred is considered a high security zone, where extra police officers and intelligence forces are deployed to protect the motorcades of senior government officials. PAGE A12
THAI LEADER APPEARS ISOLATED
Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej of Thailand appeared increasingly isolated as thousands of protesters kept him from entering his office for more than a week and the army declined to enforce his emergency decree or even to state its support for him. In addition, his foreign minister, Tej Bunnag, resigned after just seven weeks in the job, according to a senior government official. PAGE A8 
UKRAINE COALITION NEAR COLLAPSE
The Western-leaning governing coalition in Ukraine, which took power during the Orange Revolution in 2004 but has endured repeated tumult ever since, appeared once again near collapse. The president of Ukraine, Viktor A. Yushchenko, asserted that he was the victim of a ''political and constitutional coup.'' PAGE A16
U.S. DOUBTS OVER KOREA REPORTS
North Korea has begun reassembling its main nuclear complex, its only known source of bomb-making plutonium, the South Korean government said, but the United States cast doubt on the seriousness of the North's efforts. The North announced last week that it had stopped disabling its nuclear facilities at the complex and threatened to rebuild them because it had not yet been removed from the United States' list of state sponsors of terrorism. PAGE A8
CHILE REFORMS TO CURTAIL FISH VIRUS
With a deadly virus threatening its fish farms, Chile has introduced measures to improve the sanitary conditions of its salmon industry and reduce the levels of antibiotics used to treat the fish. Chile exports more salmon to the United States than to any other country besides Japan, but it has drawn sharp criticism from environmentalists and other experts in recent months as a virus, infectious salmon anemia, has killed millions of its salmon. PAGE A14
2 JOURNALISTS ATTACKED IN CAUCASUS
A television reporter was mortally wounded and a newspaper editor was severely beaten in Russia's north Caucasus region, the third attack on journalists in three days in the area. The assaults followed the killing on Sunday in nearby Ingushetia of Magomed Yevloyev, above, a journalist and prominent critic of Ingushetia's president. PAGE A16
Attacks on Indian Christians A6
NATIONAL
COURT BARS BALLOT MEASURES
Intended to Aid Vouchers
Two constitutional amendments intended to help Florida's school voucher programs withstand legal challenges cannot appear on the November ballot, the State Supreme Court ruled. The ruling was a major blow for prominent Republican leaders, especially former Gov. Jeb Bush, who made vouchers the centerpiece of education changes he pushed through in 1999. The court did not explain its ruling but said a full opinion would be issued later. PAGE A21
MOTIVE SOUGHT IN RAMPAGE
The police are still trying to determine a motive for the shooting rampage in Washington State in which an emotionally disturbed man, above, killed a sheriff's deputy and five other people and wounded four more on Tuesday. The mother of the gunman said that she had sought help in the past for her son's psychiatric problems from the very officer he killed. PAGE A18
GUILTY PLEA IN BANK-BOMB CASE
A man pleaded guilty in federal court in Pennsylvania in a case that began with a small-time bank robbery and ended with a bomb exploding on the robber's chest, killing him. The plea came from Kenneth Barnes, 54, who is seeking to avoid a life sentence by testifying against his only surviving co-defendant. PAGE A17
STRONGEST STORMS GROW STRONGER
A new study finds that the strongest hurricanes and typhoons have become even stronger over the last two and a half decades, seemingly lending support to the argument that global warming unleashes more destructive storms. But the study, published in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature, also finds that more typical, run-of-the-mill tropical storms have not become stronger over that same period. PAGE A20
OBITUARIES
TOMMY BOLT, 92
His sweet swing helped him win the 1958 United States Open but his success was overshadowed by his reputation for throwing tantrums and golf clubs. Mr. Bolt won 15 tournaments on the P.G.A. tour from 1950 to 1965. After he turned 50, he won 12 more times in seniors' competition. PAGE C12
CALVIN L. BEALE, 85
A demographer for the United States Department of Agriculture, he was among the first to recognize the transformation of America's rural landscape from farms to a mixture of farms, industry and vacation homes. An unpretentious man in a profession not noted for its glamour, Mr. Beale still developed a cult following among his peers. They marveled not just at his mastery of the theoretical tools, but also his first-hand feel for rural America. PAGE C12
METRO
HUNDREDS OF WIND TURBINES
Expected After Utility Deal
In a deal that will allow the construction of hundreds of wind turbines in New York, the Public Service Commission voted unanimously to allow Iberdrola, a Spanish energy conglomerate, to acquire Energy East, a Maine-based utility with operations in five states. Iberdrola said this summer that it would invest at least $2 billion in wind turbines across upstate New York if the commission approved the deal. PAGE B1
LEAVING THEM WONDERING
For Republicans and independents in Connecticut, the speech by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman at the Republican convention on Tuesday ''was just another turn in a national political drama that's one part Tolstoy, one part Aaron Sorkin,'' Peter Applebome writes in Our Towns. ''But for many Democrats,'' he adds, ''Mr. Lieberman's speech was like the last act in the very public and messy dissolution of a marriage.'' PAGE B1
THE SOUND OF SILENCE
At least one commuter company, Lakeland Bus Lines, has signs on its buses that warn: ''Cellphone use restricted to emergency use only.'' An official said the cellphone rule was put into effect about 10 years ago because of complaints from drivers and passengers. Most people adhere to it. But not everyone likes it. PAGE B5
FORT SUFFERS FINANCIAL BREACH
Fort Ticonderoga, the national historic landmark called Fort Ti for short, began its 100th season as a public attraction this summer with a splashy new education center and an increase in visitors, reversing a long decline. But, largely because of a breach between the fort's greatest benefactor and its executive director, its caretakers warn that it is struggling for survival. PAGE B1
SPORTS
AS ONE QUARTERBACK MOVES IN,
Another One Moves On
Since the Jets acquired Brett Favre, he has become perhaps the second-most celebrated quarterback in team history, behind a fellow named Joe. But down in Miami, the quarterback released to make room for Favre, Chad Pennington, has been having an immediate impact of his own. The meeting is the most anticipated matchup of the first week of this N.F.L. season. PAGE D2
FEDEX CUP SINGH'S TO LOSE?
Is it possible for Vijay Singh not to win the FedEx Cup? Yes. But, after winning the first two of the four events that make up the PGA Tour Playoffs for the cup, he is like a boxer still fresh in the eighth round of a 10-round bout, ahead on all the judges' cards, with a tired opponent who needs a knockout to win. Or a tennis player up... PAGE D7
BUSINESS
GUILTY PLEA IN BRIBE CASE
Involving Halliburton Subsidiary
A former executive of a Halliburton subsidiary pleaded guilty to charges that he conspired to bribe Nigerian officials with $182 million in return for engineering and construction contracts. Some of the payments were made while Vice President Dick Cheney was Halliburton's chief executive, but neither he nor Halliburton has been accused of being part of a web of payments to win contracts. PAGE C1
TWO INDICTED IN FRAUD CASE
Two former employees of Credit Suisse Securities were indicted on securities fraud and other charges in what federal prosecutors characterize as a $1 billion bait-and-switch, saying that the pair sold corporate clients securities backed by collateralized debt obligations, subprime mortgages and mobile-home contracts but that they told the investors they were buying assets linked to safe student loans. PAGE C1
ECONOMIC PHOTO SHOWS RUT
Economic activity stayed ''weak, soft, or subdued'' across the country in late July and August, according to the latest edition of the Federal Reserve's beige book. ''What it's describing is basically stagflation,'' one economist said. Fed officials, though, say that while activity will probably slow for the remainder of the year, the economy will still elude a 1970's-style mix of fierce inflation and stagnant growth. PAGE C3
G.M. SEES HOPE DESPITE SLIDE
General Motors said it was seeing signs of an economic rebound, though its sales in the United States fell 20 percent last month. Ford said sales fell 26 percent and warned that it expected the second half of 2008 to be ''more challenging than the first half.'' And Toyota said its sales fell 9 percent, though it gained market share, and Honda's sales were down 7 percent, its largest decline of the year. PAGE C4
AIRLINE DEFENDS PROPOSED ALLIANCE
American Airlines said that a proposed alliance with British Airways would not create a monopoly on trans-Atlantic service from Heathrow Airport in London, as claimed by a rival, Virgin Atlantic. American's response came in a filing with the United States Transportation Department, which is reviewing the airlines' request for antitrust immunity. PAGE C3
ITALIAN TREAT GAINING GROUND
Bad American versions gave gelato, that smooth and flavorful Italian ice cream, a slow start with consumers in this country. But now it seems to be catching on, joining artisanal coffee, cheese and wine in catching the fancy of food lovers -- and, as a result, of people willing to take a chance by opening gelato shops. PAGE C5
Coke Bids for China Juice Giant C3
Arts
IF THE DIRECTOR IS SELLING TICKETS,
There's Trouble at the Museum
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy carved a chunk out of the country's cultural budget to the tune of $1.3 billion for the next three years. These cuts have forced cultural institutions of all kinds, like opera houses and archaeological sites, to tighten their belts to the point of suffocation while a union circulates petitions to visitors, warning them that this may be the last time they visit an Italian museum. Page B1
DIGITAL PUBLISHING ON A SMALL SCALE
Digital publishing options just got easier for the little guy. Under a partnership deal between Perseus Books Group and several technology companies, a new service called Constellation will be available to smaller publishers that often lack the financial means to use electronic readers, digital book search, print-on-demand and other digital formats. Perseus will negotiate the use of these services on the publishers' behalf. Page B2
HOME
VIVE LA DIFFeRENCE
Sets of what she calls virtual twins -- unrelated children born within nine months of each other who enter a family, through birth or adoption, in the first year of life -- are helping a California psychologist study the eternal nature-versus-nurture question. (In the lead so far: nature.) PAGE D1
Flowers for a Centennial D6
Storing the Pool D2
Style
FOR PLASTIC SURGEONS, PERSONALITY,
Unlike Skin, Is Less Malleable
When you're sitting in your plastic surgeon's office and explaining which part of your whatever you'd like to have rearranged, he's thinking. He's wondering where to place you in the list of potential patients. Many surgeons have seen a veritable rogue's gallery of problem patients, and for some, there's not enough money -- or vanity -- in the world to force them to take one on. Page E3
OVERTRAINING: A RARE, HIGH WALL
For the serious athlete or even the hobbyist, training is a tight-rope style balancing act. While overtraining is a hazard, it's often overdiagnosed, giving it a boogeyman quality. But once you've crossed that line, or leaned too far to one side or another of the rope, it's a long way down, and climbing up can take longer. Dr. Steven Keteyian, a cardiologist and author of textbook chapters on the condition, offers insight on the realities of overdoing it. Page E9
Editorial
RUNNING AGAINST WASHINGTON
It is clear that the Republicans have settled on a message: ''Washington is not working.'' The problem is that American voters have yet to hear -- from John McCain or the convention warm-up acts -- any serious ideas on what, exactly, is wrong with the nation's capital, apart from the fact that a Democrat might win the White House. Page A26
HELP FOR GEORGIA
The Kremlin's leaders continue to bluster and preen in the wake of their invasion of Georgia. That much smaller country needs help, and Moscow has to understand that the West will not be intimidated into abandoning a struggling democracy. Page A26
A BRIGHT AND SHINY BROWSER
Google is in the business of distributing advertising to billboards (the browser on your computer screen), and with its new Web browser, it is trying to build a better billboard. Page A26
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS
What a great reunion in Minnesota! All the old gang -- Rudy and Mitt and Fred and Mike -- together again. Reliving the golden days in which they managed to convince Republican voters that no matter what John McCain's defects, he could not possibly be as bad a candidate as they were. Page A27
MY CONVENTION MEMORY
Recollections of past Republican conventions, from Bay Buchanan, Edwin J. Meese III, Craig Fuller and Victoria Clarke. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); WRITERS (87%); JOURNALISM (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); COUPS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TERRORISM (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); BALLOTS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); FINFISH FARMING (68%); REFERENDUMS (66%); NEWS REPORTING (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); AQUACULTURE (63%); VIRUSES (63%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (62%); ANTIBIOTICS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (90%); SAMAK SUNDARAVEJ (73%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); THAILAND (88%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



86 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: As Consumers Focus on Basics, a Sluggish August for Most Retailers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Many retailers struggled with a sluggish back-to-school season last month, though Wal-Mart posted higher sales on Thursday as shoppers focused on buying essentials amid persistent worries about high gas and food prices.
 As merchants announced their August sales results, Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, reported a solid gain that beat Wall Street forecasts, as consumers stuck to low-price operators. 
 Mall-based apparel stores, including merchants like Wet Seal and Abercrombie & Fitch, remained in the doldrums. And the high-end retailers Saks and Nordstrom posted weaker results as their affluent customers started to feel pinched. 
 ''Consumers are spending on necessities and looking for value and the lowest price possible,'' Ken Perkins, president of the research company RetailMetrics, said. ''And it's reflective again in the results that we are seeing.'' 
 A report from the Labor Department offered more evidence that the slowing economy was taking its toll on the job market, a bad sign for consumer spending. The number of workers seeking unemployment benefits jumped unexpectedly last week, reversing three weeks of declines. 
 The reports are not comforting to the retail industry as it prepares for the holiday season. Many merchants entered the fall season with inventories well below a year ago, but such reductions might not have been enough as last month proved to be even weaker than planned. 
 Dan Hess, founder and chief executive of the research firm Merchant Forecast, estimated that discounts were 10 percent deeper at mall-based apparel stores than a year ago, despite a drop of 10 to 15 percent in inventories.
 One encouraging piece of news is that Hurricane Gustav, which hit the Gulf Coast on Monday, was not as bad as analysts had feared. But retailers are now getting ready for the next series of tropical storms, including Hanna, which could become a hurricane by the time it makes landfall in the United States on Saturday.
 Wal-Mart reported a 3 percent gain in same-store sales, helped by sales of groceries and back-to-school products. Analysts surveyed by ThomsonReuters had expected a 1.6 percent increase. Including fuel, the retailer's sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.5 percent.
 ''The underlying business performance for Wal-Mart U.S. continued to show strength, and the improved relative performance has resulted in market share gains,'' Eduardo Castro-Wright, the president and chief executive of Wal-Mart's American stores, said in a statement.
 Wal-Mart expects same-store sales to rise 2 to 3 percent in the current month.
 At a Wal-Mart rival, the Target Corporation, same-store sales fell 2.1 percent, though that was better than the 2.6 percent decline that Wall Street had expected. The discount retailer has not fared as well as Wal-Mart in the weak economy, as Target heavily emphasizes nonessentials like home furnishings and stylish jeans.
 Another bright spot is warehouse club operators as shoppers buy in bulk. The Costco Wholesale Corporation announced a 9 percent same-store sales increase in August on Wednesday as higher gas prices lifted sales. Analysts had expected a 9.6 percent gain. Excluding the effect of higher gas prices, Costco's same-store sales rose 6 percent.
 Among luxury department stores, Saks recorded a 5.9 percent decline in same-store sales, steeper than the 4.7 percent that Wall Street had expected. The weakest categories were women's apparel, women's shoes and intimate apparel, while the strongest categories were fashion jewelry, fragrances, men's sportswear and men's shoes.
 Nordstrom recorded a 7.9 percent drop in sales, a bit worse than the 7.1 percent decline expected.
 On Wednesday, J. C. Penney announced that same-store sales at its department store business dropped 4.9 percent, slightly better than the 6.3 percent drop that analysts had projected. Penney also predicted a mid- to high-single digit decrease in sales for the current month.
 Kohl's announced a 5.8 percent drop on Wednesday, though the decline was not as steep as the 7.6 percent expected by analysts.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Retail Sales in August: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Aug. 30, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) chart details bar graph for stats. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (86%); HURRICANES (86%); FOOD PRICES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); WEATHER (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (55%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); TARGET CORP (84%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (87%); TGT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



87 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS HILL CITY, S.D.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: A Spot in the Black Hills for the Golden Years

BYLINE: By GREG BREINING

 BODY:
IN a state otherwise blanketed by cornfields and grasslands, South Dakota's Black Hills are an oasis of rugged mountains, rushing streams and ponderosa pine. 
 The self-proclaimed Heart of the Hills is Hill City, a small town a half-hour drive southwest of Rapid City that has a prominent Main Street lined with shops and restaurants and a railroad siding that's still in use. The town and its surrounding hills and valleys are attracting retirees and second-home owners on their way to becoming retirees, as well as younger people seeking scenic beauty, a bit of culture, laid-back attitudes -- and modest home and land prices. 
 ''Oh my gosh, this is totally reasonable,'' said Janna Emmel, a South Dakota native who moved back to the state from Laguna Beach, Calif. ''When you're coming from either coast, it all seems so reasonably priced.'' 
 Ms. Emmel and her husband, Randy Berger, arrived in 1994 and opened a gallery of contemporary and Native American art on Main Street. 
 ''You see more and more people coming in here from other places and bringing their jobs with them,'' she said. ''They've found that a little town in a rural setting is a lovely place to do business daily.''
 Ray Sanderson still lives in California -- in Fairfield, where he runs Sanderson's Welding -- but plans to retire in Hill City. 
 ''From California, it's just a day-and-night difference,'' he said. ''Friendly atmosphere -- literally everybody is 'Good Morning! Hi, how are you?' That's really a spirit lifter.''
 He and his wife, Margaret, would stay in the Hill City area when they visited family. He recalled riding bikes with a cousin on the George S. Mickelson Trail, which passes through town. They stopped in a small valley. Mr. Sanderson said, ''I remember telling him, 'Man, wouldn't this be the place to retire?' ''
 A decade later, in 2005, he bought a home in that very valley, spending $272,000 for a log house with two bedrooms and a great room -- about 1,000 square feet -- on three acres. 
 ''I'm out in the country, but I'm only four minutes from town,'' he said. ''So I can run to town and get a cup of coffee or a carton of eggs.''
 Mr. Sanderson, who is 61, said, ''I've got four more years before I'm a South Dakota resident.''
 Joey and Ed Bonds followed the motorcycles to the Black Hills. The Bonds run a bicycle rental business in Parker, Ariz. Ms. Bonds quit a job as a school administrator to start a tattoo parlor. 
 ''I got a really crappy tattoo,'' she said. ''I thought, 'I can do this and make a living doing this because I can do it better than these people are doing it.' '' 
 In her quest for customers, the Bondses followed motorcycle rallies around the country in a 37-foot trailer, eventually ending up at a rally in Sturgis, S.D. But the gonzo party atmosphere was too much. ''We didn't want to be in that environment,'' she said. 
 So they backed off to Hill City, about an hour south. The area was still ''crawling with motorcycles,'' so she had plenty of business, but the evenings were quiet.
 The Bondses bought an old barn near town for $164,000 in 2003. They are converting it into a two-bedroom bed-and-breakfast for roving cyclists. In 2006, they bought a 2,500-square-foot house in the center of town for $199,000 and turned it into a bicycle shop and tattoo studio. It sits next to the Mickelson Trail.
 Eventually, they plan to move to Hill City full time, living in the barn in the off-season. The property is tucked up against federal forest land. ''We have neighbors that are within 500 feet on one side, and you don't see them,'' Ms. Bonds said.
 In their time off, the Bondses ride motorcycles and bikes in the Black Hills area. 
 ''It's very good for road cycling as well as mountain biking,'' Ms. Bonds said. ''One of our training rides is from town out to Mount Rushmore,'' which is about 13 miles out of town. 
 As for that tattoo, she said: ''It's still there, actually. I keep it as a reminder.''
 The Scene
 Rising from the prairies of South Dakota, the Black Hills give the impression of being the gateway to the West. And Hill City has the feel of an old mining town -- which it is -- that is making the transition to a tourist economy. 
 It has cleaned up well, with restaurants, hotels, retail shops and two art galleries lining Main Street, where construction workers, loggers, ranchers and miners mix with young new- comers. 
 The private Black Hills Institute of Geologic Research runs a public museum and gift shop. (What other town with a population of fewer than 1,000 has one of the world's most complete Tyrannosaurus skeletons?) The 1880 Train, a vintage steam engine with passenger cars, hauls tourists to nearby Keystone and back several times a day. 
 Then there are the natural attractions. Mr. Sanderson said he often takes out-of-town guests to the early fall bison roundup in nearby Custer State Park because they ''are fascinated by buffalo,'' he said. ''If I had my druthers, there are several lakes within a 15-minute drive that the state keeps well stocked with trout -- that's what I'd rather do.''
 Pros
 Hill City and its small-town atmosphere boast rugged surroundings, with hunting, fishing and scenic trails. Significant attractions within a half-hour drive include the Mount Rushmore National Monument, Wind Cave National Park, Custer State Park and the Crazy Horse Monument.
 Cons
 Hill City is nearly a mile high, so winters hang on well into May. 
 The Real Estate Market
 ''Our slogan is we never rise as high nor do we fall as low as the big boom areas,'' said Gil Raben, of Raben Real Estate in Rapid City. Retirees make up a big part of the real estate market. Whether they grew up in South Dakota and are returning, or they hail from somewhere else, these homebuyers are bringing savings from higher-wage states. 
 Seasonal homes on small parcels start at about $200,000, with some houses rising to $1 million.
 ''What I used to call a luxury home is a summer cabin to these people,'' Mr. Raben said. ''They want to be in the hills. The rockier it is, the more trees it has, the more expensive it is. If it has a stream going by, that's prime property.''
 Doug Groves of Realty Executives in Hill City agreed. ''Our biggest buyers in the Hill City area are baby boomers and retirees,'' he said. 
 The abundance of public land, especially United States Forest Service property, is a plus, keeping land wild and undeveloped. But it also limits building options. 
 ''As a developer, it's tough,'' said Mr. Groves, who also develops vacation properties. ''But that's good. It keeps the Black Hills its own little area.''
 Mr. Groves is developing a lot with a two-bedroom 1,300-square-foot log home on two acres with a creek. He said he plans to ask $265,000 for the property.
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION 871, according to a 2006 Census Bureau estimate.
 SIZE 0.77 square mile.
 WHERE About 25 miles southwest of Rapid City, in the southwestern part of the state, and not far from Mount Rushmore. 
 WHO'S BUYING The soon-to-be retired from around the nation.
 WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING There's an abundance of hotels, lodges and bed-and-breakfasts in the central Black Hills. Rooms start at $72 (off-season) at the Comfort Inn (616 Main Street; 605-574-2100; www.comfortinn.com) at the south end of town.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A TOWN IN FLUX: Main Street in Hill City, an old mining town, is now lined with restaurants, shops and galleries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DICK KETTLEWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map shows area of Hill City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (51%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (88%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



88 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2655 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 THE FILMS OF JERRY SCHATZBERG (Friday through Thursday) One of the most gifted and original filmmakers to emerge during the industry upheavals of the 1970s, Mr. Schatzberg combines a photographer's eye for telling detail with a psychologist's passion for the twists and turns of human motivation. Mr. Schatzberg will be present to open this weeklong series on Friday with a presentation of two early, exciting works: the 1970 ''Puzzle of a Downfall Child,'' the story of a fashion model (Faye Dunaway) who suffers a nervous breakdown (7 p.m.), and ''The Panic in Needle Park,'' a quintessential '70s New York movie from a screenplay by Joan Didion and John Gregory Dunne, with Al Pacino as a charismatic young junkie and Kitty Winn as an innocent drawn into his dreams and addictions (9:30). Other films in the series include ''The Seduction of Joe Tynan'' (1979), ''Scarecrow'' (1973), ''Street Smart'' (1987) and ''Reunion'' (1989). Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Dave Kehr) 
 LATINBEAT 2008 (Friday through Thursday) This annual survey of Latin American cinema at the Walter Reade Theater features 28 titles from 10 countries. There will be a special focus on the Puerto Rican director Jacobo Morales, who will be present for the screening of three of his films (''What Happened to Santiago,'' ''Linda Sara'' and his most recent, ''Angel''). Also showing: a group of six new features that are said to herald a new political force in the Chilean cinema and, as part of Machado 21, a citywide celebration of the centenary of the Argentine novelist Machado de Assis, a Thursday night screening of two films based on his work, by Nelson Pereira dos Santos: ''The Alienist'' (1970) and the short ''A Missa do Galo'' (1982). Mr. dos Santos will be present. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)
 'THEY SHOOT HORSES, DON'T THEY?' (Friday) Jane Fonda and Michael Sarrazin star as Depression-era marathon dancers who seem doomed to twirl forever in the metaphorical ballroom of life. Sydney Pollack, who died in May at 73, directed this 1969 adaptation of Horace McCoy's 1935 roman noir, and if at times the concept seems a bit too obvious, Mr. Pollack's impeccable sense of casting carries it through. The ensemble includes Susannah York, Red Buttons, Bonnie Bedelia, Michael Conrad, Bruce Dern and Gig Young, who won a supporting actor Oscar as the ballroom's cynical host. Museum of Modern Art, Theater 3, Education and Resource Center, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AMERICAN TEEN' (PG-13, 1:35) Five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., share their lives with the cameras in Nanette Burstein's fascinating, slightly fishy documentary, which prefers teen-movie conventions and stereotypes to real social insight. (A. O. Scott) 
 'ANITA O'DAY: THE LIFE OF A JAZZ SINGER' (No rating, 1:32) This documentary about the great jazz singer, who died in 2006, is a portrait of a woman who always lived by her own rules. Her total disregard for convention applied as much to singing as to her spectacularly messy life. (Stephen Holden) 
 'ANOTHER GAY SEQUEL: GAYS GONE WILD!' (No rating, 1:35) Don't let the generic title fool you. This crass, cliche-ridden comedy about nitwits trying to have sex during spring break is, in fact, the worst gay sequel ever. (Nathan Lee)
 'BABYLON A.D.' (PG-13, 1:30) Mathieu Kassovitz, the director of this futuristic action movie, has described it as ''pure violence and stupidity,'' but that makes it sound better than it is. (Scott)
 'BACHNA AE HASEENO' (No rating, 2:35, in Hindi) After just one (failed) movie, Ranbir Kapoor was anointed a star. In ''Bachna,'' his second, he plays a cad who woos three women, which leads to heartache, remorse and redemption. Mr. Kapoor's sweetness doesn't quite suit the Don Juan role, but he charms when contrite. Bipasha Basu adds some comic spice as a pampered, ill-tempered movie star. (Rachel Saltz)
 'BEAUTIFUL LOSERS' (No rating, 1:30) This fawning, self-serving documentary is directed by Aaron Rose, features Aaron Rose and is concerned with a group of middling, quasi-countercultural artists affiliated with a gallery founded by -- guess who? -- Aaron Rose. (Lee)
 'BRIDESHEAD REVISITED' (PG-13, 2:00) Pointless and pretty, this revisiting of Evelyn Waugh's reactionary valentine to interwar Britain gets nearly everything wrong but the costumes. (Scott)
 'COLLEGE' (R, 1:37) Another tiresome fraternities-are-wild offering in which three high school seniors take a weekend trip to a promising college campus and have, like, a totally insane time. With its rapid-fire bombardment of one gross-out moment after the next, the film strains to sell itself as one crazy ride, though chances are it won't disappoint those looking solely for unadulterated raunch. (Laura Kern)
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives. (Manohla Dargis)
 'DEATH RACE' (R, 1:29) Finally, neo-grindhouse done right. Weapon-toting, obscenity-spewing criminals chase one another around a greasy junkyard in a monster car race to the flamboyantly nasty death. Co-starring Joan Allen! (Lee)
 'DISASTER MOVIE' (PG-13, 1:30) The latest disposable parody of disposable Hollywood movies has a shelf life of about five minutes, tops, which may be slightly longer than it took to come up with most of its gags. (Lee)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'ENCOUNTERS AT THE END OF THE WORLD' (G, 1:39) In this new documentary, that professional madman and restlessly curious filmmaker Werner Herzog travels to the blinding white of the Antarctic, where he meets melancholic scientists, brooding journeymen and various poets of the soul, along with all manner of otherworldly furry and floating creatures. (Dargis)
 'FLY ME TO THE MOON' (G, 1:30) Three flies stow away on Apollo 11 in this animated feature created start to finish expressly for 3-D. But not, alas, for pleasure or art. (Lee)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Holden)
 'A GIRL CUT IN TWO' (No rating, 1:50, in French) A rich, textured divertissement from Claude Chabrol, a sinister master of the art, who here returns to elegant, tight form with a beautifully directed story of a woman (Ludivine Sagnier) preyed upon by different men (Francois Berleand, Benoit Magimel) and her own warring desires. (Dargis)
 'HAMLET 2' (R, 1:32) This comedy about a high school drama teacher in Tucson belongs to the school of free-for-all satiric farce whose creators ball up wads of ideas, apply chewing gum and hurl them against the wall to see what sticks. Enough of the jokes cling to make the movie intermittently funny. (Holden)
 'HANCOCK' (PG-13, 1:32) Will Smith stars in this unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood's superhero chronicles. Peter Berg directs, and Charlize Theron provides the tastiest surprises. (Dargis) 
 'HELLBOY: THE GOLDEN ARMY' (PG-13, 1:50) Guillermo del Toro, returning to the Hellboy franchise after ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' indulges his knack for conjuring weird and memorable creatures of every shape, size and temperament. Abundance trumps coherence, and this movie, with Ron Perlman as the grouchy red hero and Selma Blair as his fiery lover, is a bit of a mess. But it can also be a lot of fun. (Scott) 
 'THE HOUSE BUNNY' (PG-13, 1:37) Anna Faris proves herself a fake bimbo par excellence in this breezy, ditzy comedy about a Playboy bunny who goes back to school. (Lee)
 'I.O.U.S.A.' (PG, 1:30) Tackling the unsexy topic of our soaring national debt, Patrick Creadon's resolutely nonpartisan documentary tracks America's ''fiscal cancer'' through centuries of budgetary highs and lows. Equal parts enlightening and alarming, it balances its talking heads and pie charts with the folksy progress of the Fiscal Wake-up Tour, a grass-roots effort urging Americans to save rather than spend. Good luck with that. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'I SERVED THE KING OF ENGLAND' (R, 1:58, in Czech) There is hardly a moment in this picaresque slapstick epic, directed by Jiri Menzel (''Closely Watched Trains'') and set mainly in 1930s and '40s Czechoslovakia that you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events. (Holden)
 'THE LONGSHOTS' (PG, 1:26) Bookish girl teams up with loser uncle to transform a useless high school football team into champions. Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit fame directs what may be the most formulaic movie ever made. (Lee)
 'MAMMA MIA!' (PG-13, 1:48) Adapted from the stage musical and featuring a cast of super troupers belting out Abba hits, this movie is hard not to enjoy, which doesn't mean it's any good. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MY MEXICAN SHIVAH' (No rating, 1:38, in Spanish, Hebrew and Yiddish) Set in a Jewish section of Mexico City, this uninhibited comedy has a director, Alejandro Springall, with a flair for the surreal and a cast that knows its way around a stereotype. Juggling multiple plotlines and myriad dysfunctions, the incorrigible Mr. Springall leads us through the disastrous shivah for a pleasure-loving paterfamilias (Sergio Klainer), reminding us that ritual can ease reconciliation, and that sometimes even meat and dairy can get along. (Catsoulis)
 'MIRRORS' (R, 1:51) This minor chiller from Alexandre Aja features Kiefer Sutherland as an alcoholic ex-cop guarding the ruins of a burned-out department store whose spooky mirrors manipulate his reflection -- rather horribly, as it turns out. Though he offers several cringeworthy set pieces, Mr. Aja blows his entire Windex budget on an overcomplicated second half of amplified effects and diminishing returns. (Catsoulis) 
 'THE MUMMY: TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR' (PG-13, 1:53) The third and weakest installment of the ''Mummy'' franchise is an expensive but incoherent mess. (Holden)
 'PATTI SMITH: DREAM OF LIFE' (No rating, 1:49) You may not learn everything you want to know about this punk godhead in Steven Sebring's impressionistic portrait -- a lovely, drifty first feature that feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion -- but you learn just about everything you need. (Dargis)
 'PINEAPPLE EXPRESS' (R, 1:51) In the tradition of Cheech & Chong, Abbott and Costello, Hope and Crosby, Ricky and Lucy, Martin and Lewis, Rowan and Martin, Spicoli and Hand, Riggs and Murtaugh, dumb and dumber, right brain and left, peanut butter and jelly, bong hit and roach clip comes a stoner comedy that partakes of a gentle indie vibe before hitting the hard stuff. David Gordon Green directs; Seth Rogen and James Franco star. (Dargis)
 'THE ROCKER' (PG-13, 1:42) This rock 'n' roll comedy has its witty moments, but it is encrusted in rock lore and stale attitudinizing borrowed from ''This Is Spinal Tap'' and ''School of Rock,'' far superior movies that it shamelessly cannibalizes. (Holden)
 'THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS 2' (PG-13, 1:57) In this rambling sequel to a 2005 hit, four friends, now entering college, are symbolic cheerleaders for personal loyalty and wholesome living; the movie is an upbeat alternative to ''The Hills'' and its ilk. (Holden)
 'SPACE CHIMPS' (G, 1:21) A pretty good G-rated story about chimps in outer space, with a lot of droll grown-up jokes slipped in. The animated leads are cute, and the voice actors, among them Andy Samberg, Cheryl Hines and Patrick Warburton, are in top form. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'STAR WARS: THE CLONE WARS' (PG, 1:35) As a mechanical thrill ride, this digitally animated ''Star Wars'' saga is more or less as satisfying its blockbuster predecessors. As a movie, it completes the franchise's slow divorce from photography-based cinema as well as any relationship to credible human feeling. (Lee)
 'STEP BROTHERS' (R, 1:33) Yet another Judd Apatow factory production pegged to the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted, immature male. Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly star, and Adam McKay directs. (Dargis)
 'SUKIYAKI WESTERN DJANGO' (R, 1:38) This riotous genre pastiche, from the prolific Japanese genre-blender Takashi Miike, is good, geeky fun for a while. In the end, though, there's more blood, attitude and style than originality or conviction. (Scott)
 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden)
 'TRAITOR' (PG-13, 1:50) Don Cheadle plays Samir Horn, a half-Sudanese, half-American soldier in the war on terror. Which side is he on? The answer turns out to be both obvious and a little preposterous, but Mr. Cheadle's performance is a fine study in ambiguity and doubt, and the director, Jeffrey Nachmanoff, sustains a mood of anxiety that makes the picture absorbing even when it's not quite believable. (Scott) 
 'TRANSSIBERIAN' (R, 1:50) This handsomely remodeled variation on a cherished genre you might call the mystery-train movie skillfully manipulates familiar tropes: innocents abroad; ominous, glowering foreigners; conspiracy and duplicity; erotic intrigue. Until it fizzles in an anticlimactic train crash, it is extremely entertaining. (Holden)
 'TROPIC THUNDER' (R, 1:47) A flashy, nasty, on-and-off funny and assaultive sendup of the film industry, directed by Ben Stiller, who stars alongside Robert Downey Jr. (in blackface) and Jack Black (in itty- bitty bikini underwear). (Dargis)
 'TROUBLE THE WATER' (No rating, 1:33) While making this superb documentary about that natural and unnatural disaster, Hurricane Katrina, the filmmakers Carl Deal and Tia Lessin hit the jackpot when they meet two New Orleans survivors, Kimberly and Scott Roberts, who rode out the storm with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'WALL-E' (G, 1:37) The latest Pixar movie is many things: a silent comedy, a robot love story, a cautionary science fiction parable. Also a masterpiece. (Scott)
 'THE X-FILES: I WANT TO BELIEVE' (PG-13, 1:44) David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson and Chris Carter re-enter the twilight zone in this baggy, draggy, oddly timed and strangely off-the-mark follow-up to the show's superior first big-screen incarnation. (Dargis)

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A film entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Latinbeat 2008 survey of Latin American cinema, at the Walter Reade Theater, misidentified the nationality of the novelist Machado de Assis, whose work is the basis of two films that will be shown. He was Brazilian, not Argentine.
A film entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Latinbeat 2008 survey of Latin American cinema, at the Walter Reade Theater, misidentified the nationality of the novelist Machado de Assis, whose work is the basis of two films that will be shown. He was Brazilian, not Argentine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); DANCE (69%); DANCERS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (56%) CHILE (69%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



89 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: The Massage Just Up the Road

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
IN the world of spa travel, the Northeast is not known for leading the way. With a few exceptions, the best-known, most sought-after destination spas tend to be far west of the Mississippi and well south of New Jersey; California, Arizona, Utah and Florida are some of the hot-spot states. 
 But as more travelers seem to expect spa treatments to be part of their getaway experiences, and spas within driving distance of New York City recognize that travelers in a squeezed economy want to stay closer to home, a growing number of nearby hotels and resorts are building spas, revamping existing ones and rolling out all-out marketing blitzes to draw more travelers to the luxurious land of the facial, the massage and the manicure. 
 Some newer properties -- like the widely praised high-end Mayflower Inn & Spa in Washington, Conn., which opened a 20,000-square-foot spa in 2006, and the over-the-top Winvian, which opened last year near Litchfield, Conn. -- hope to compete for the upper-echelon business of spagoers who might otherwise fly cross-country for their pampering, or in the parlance of spa marketing, ''wellness.'' 
 The Northeast spas all have two key shifts in the spa industry going for them. First, the great spa experience is no longer necessarily built around warm weather; the opening of the all inclusive, fitness-and-weight-loss-focused Canyon Ranch in Lenox, Mass., in 1989, signaled the renaissance of the winter-weather spa.
 ''What's happened now, as the trend has gone to more and more places having spas,'' said Susie Ellis, president of SpaFinder.com, which reviews, publicizes and sells gift certificates for spas, ''is that people have experienced spas in weather that isn't so great, and it's possible to work around that.''
 And second, while 10 years ago spa vacations tended to last a week or more, with many resorts requiring seven-day stays, more spas, lodges and hotels that have added spas now allow quick stays. 
 So a two-day jaunt to a spa is much more common at a time when Americans are taking shorter vacations. Wearing a bathrobe while eating grapes and sipping detoxifying teas, getting a deep-tissue massage and then taking a steam bath, all within the first few hours of your vacation, is a pretty efficient way to unwind. 
 According to SpaFinder, there are more than 1,500 day and destination spas within a 200-mile driving distance of New York. Of them, 31 are listed as overnight or resort spas, though Canyon Ranch and the Deerfield Spa, a much less expensive all-inclusive fitness spa in the Poconos in Pennsylvania, are among the few that qualify as true destination spas, meaning that everyone has traveled there for a spa experience. 
 OPENED in 2006, the Lodge at Woodloch, also in the Poconos but more upscale than Deerfield, bills itself as a destination spa. The Mohonk Mountain House, a Victorian-era lodge in New Paltz, N.Y., added a 16-treatment-room spa in 2006.
 The number of overnight spas within a four-hour drive of New York City has increased slightly in recent years, although the total number of such spas across the country has increased faster, according to SpaFinder.
 Still, spa mavens have taken note of a few additions and changes on the local landscape -- a green spa and a more traditional lodge that was rebuilt after a fire, both in the Catskills, as well as a funky and lavish resort in northwest Connecticut. 
 An organic vegetable garden, llamas, chickens, honey bees, goats and peacocks are not typical at spas, but nor is using solar-power and geothermal energy to heat the sauna, steam room and mineral salt water pool. At Buttermilk Falls Inn and Spa in Milton, N.Y., about 90 minutes north of Manhattan, manicures and pedicures are done beside the indoor pool, which is enclosed by soaring glass ceilings and overlooks the Hudson River. 
 The people who work at Buttermilk describe the property -- a 70-acre farm with two ponds filled with ducks and geese and landscaped with pear, cherry, peach and apple trees as well as opulent flower and herb gardens -- as '' 'Dirty Dancing' meets 'Jurassic Park.' ''
 A 10-room inn built in 1680, where prices range from $225 to $425 a night (separate and much more spacious carriage houses range from $325 to $650 a night), Buttermilk opened nine years ago and had a small, cramped spa in one of the cottages with tiny treatment rooms separated by screens. But last year the owner, Robert Pollock, who also owns the Great Jones Spa in Manhattan, built the new solar-powered spa.
 The spa, which is open to people who are not guests at the inn, is spare and sleek and has seven treatment rooms and a small steam and sauna room. Mr. Pollock said he was planning to bring yoga and a gym to Buttermilk, and possibly dinner and cooking classes. A 60-minute deep-tissue massage or a basic facial costs $100. 
 For those looking for a fitness vacation, Buttermilk would not deliver, though there are some running trails on the property and plenty of biking, kayaking and other outdoor recreation in the Hudson Valley. 
 Included in the cost of lodging is breakfast, made with eggs from the chicken coop and fruits and vegetables from the organic garden, and afternoon tea, but the inn does not serve dinner. There are several restaurants in New Paltz and on the Newburgh waterfront, about a 20-minute drive, and the four restaurants of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, about 25 minutes away, which are closed the first three weeks of July and between Christmas and New Year's. 
 A much more traditional spa in the Catskills is the Emerson Resort & Spa, just outside Woodstock, about two hours from Manhattan. It completed a major renovation last year after a blaze damaged much of the main inn in 2005. With the reopening, the resort, along Route 28 in Mount Tremper, where there is no cellphone service, opened an 8,000-square-foot spa. The smaller original spa is still standing across the street and is used for overflow on the weekends. The 25 suites in the main inn -- rates range from $520 to $705, including breakfast -- are handsomely appointed, many of them duplexes with small balconies. But the adjoining and more affordable log-cabin-style lodge, with another 27 rooms, where current rates range from $248 to $486, also including breakfast, feels something like a downtrodden, overpriced motel.
 The spa itself, which is opened to nonguests, does not feel much like an escape, and has an awkward setup: the facilities -- the 10 treatment rooms, the nail and hair salon and a small fitness center -- are spread out along the public corridor of the hotel's main building. At least one fitness class is offered on Sundays and weekdays, and on Saturdays there are cardio, Pilates, yoga and tai chi classes. 
 Guests interviewed over a recent weekend said the treatments were uneven. Although the same guests said they were disappointed with the food at the hotel restaurant, the Phoenix, they said the food at the spa cafe was excellent, offering fresh smoothies and salads with locally grown vegetables. The spa offers unusual treatments, including a cranberry bog bath and a hot-oil-and-herb-poultice massage, in which the therapist uses heated herb packs dipped in oil to scrub and detoxify the skin, followed by deep-tissue massage. The 50-minute treatment is $105. A traditional 50-minute Swedish massage is $95, and a 50-minute facial is $95.
 ALSO about two hours from Manhattan, in the Litchfield Hills of northwest Connecticut, is the far more decadent and expensive Winvian. 
 If one does not flinch at spending, on average, $2,000 a night, including exceptional meals and ample liquor in your room but not including spa treatments, then read on. This adult playground (manyreviews have used the words ''gimmick'' and ''whimsy'') is the kind of place where you never have to leave your room to feel like you have gone to a very wild, crazy yet relaxing place that has thought of every detail before it could ever occur to you. Is there a television? Wait, there it is now, rising mechanically out of the floor. 
 The lodging there, inside a grand farmhouse and in 18 cottages designed by 15 different architects, is the highlight, the spa almost incidental. The cottages, on 113 acres, are from 950 square feet to 1,250 square feet, each with a distinct theme -- the Helicopter Cottage contains a fully restored 17,000 pound Sea King Pelican chopper, and inside the copter is the bar and entertainment center; the Greenhouse Cottage is made almost completely of glass; and the Maritime Cottage is essentially a luxurious lighthouse.
 Each room (accommodations are for two but rooms have pull-out couches and the resort allows children only at certain times of the year) has a generous private steam room, which is nice because the spa has a tiny steam room and sauna. Prices range from $1,450 to $1,950.
 Current rates at the Mayflower, about eight miles away, with its more elaborate spa and extensive menu of fitness classes, are $520 to $1,500. 
 At Winvian bicycles are left outside your door, and the resort sits next to the 4,000-acre White memorial foundation, where you can hike, bike, ride a horse, snowshoe and cross-country sky. There are also canoeing and boating nearby. The resort has yoga classes on weekends only, but there is a small gym next to the spa with a treadmill, elliptical trainer, exercise bike, yoga mats, free weights and medicine balls. Each weekend there is one free yoga class.
 The 5,000-square-foot facility has large glass rooms and vaulted ceilings and evokes the feeling of an old New England farm, except that the aromas inside go more toward cucumber and lavender than manure. Like Buttermilk Falls, it uses an all-natural skin care line, in its case, Ren, a very expensive British brand in addition to Eve Lom, which is not all natural. A 75-minute Ren facial is $265; a 60 minute Swedish massage is $150. The spa restricted to guests of the hotel. 
 As much as the outlandish accommodations appear to be Winvian's main marketing tool, Heather Smith, who owns the property with her mother, Maggie Smith (they also own the Pitcher Inn in Vermont), said, ''You need a spa.''
 She said 80 percent of the guests, most from New York City, are using the spa.
 ''I saw the trend,'' she said. ''And it was spa, spa, spa.''
 PICKING A SPA
 Mayflower Inn & Spa118 Woodbury Road, Washington, Conn.; (860) 868-9466; www.mayflowerinn.com.
 Winvian 155 Alain White Road, Morris, Conn.; (860) 567-9600; www. Winvian.com.
 Canyon Ranch 165 Kemble Street, Lenox, Mass.; (413) 637-4100; www.canyonranch .com.
 Deerfield Spa 650 Resica Road, East Stroudsburg, Pa.; (800) 852-4494; www.deefieldspa.com.
 Lodge at Woodloch 109 River Birch Lane, Hawley, Pa.; (866) 953-8500 www.thelodgeatwoodloch.com.
 Mohonk Mountain House 1000 Mountain Rest Road, New Paltz, N.Y.; (845) 255-1000; www .mohonk .com.
 Buttermilk Falls Inn and Spa 220 North Road, Milton, N.Y.; (845) 795-1310; www.buttermilkfallsinn.com.
 Emerson Resort & Spa 5349 Route 28, Mount Tremper, N.Y.; (877) 688-2828; www.emersonplace.com.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A listing of spas last Friday with an article about destination spas within driving distance of New York City misstated a Web address for one spa. It is www.deerfieldspa.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REGIONAL: The Emerson Resort in the Catskills is part of the growing destination-spa scene in the Northeast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CATSKILLS GREENERY: The Buttermilk Falls Inn and Spa in Milton, N.Y., uses geothermal energy and solar power to heat its pool, and its grounds include organic gardens.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 VARIETY: Cottages at the Winvian in Connecticut are themed, including a camping cottage, above top. Harvesting sunflowers at Buttermilk Falls, above left. Ashiatsu massage, above right, at the Winvian.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); MASSAGE SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); RESORTS (78%); TRENDS (75%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



90 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3042 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 NEW YORK CLOWN THEATER FESTIVAL
 Expect more than oversize shoes and squirting flowers at this year's three-week celebration of all things buffoon. Though there may be some traditional circus bits, the festival, now in its third year, is an adult showcase for seriously trained clowns from all over the world, with classes and cabarets to promote theatrical clowning, said Audrey Crabtree, a founder. Of course it will still be funny. 
 ''People can expect physical comedy, an emotional range of work and no fourth wall,'' she said. ''Anything that happens in the audience usually becomes a part of the show. If someone sneezes, the clown is not just going to ignore the sneeze.'' 
 Among the new shows are ''C'est la Nuit Qu'il Faut Attraper la Lumiere,'' a sentimental one-person act performed in English by a French clown (Orianne Bernard, above); the Brazilian Hulk Show, which imagines what would happen if the Incredible Hulk had an illegitimate child in South America, and that child happened to grow up to be a clown; and ''Kill Me Loudly -- a Clown Noir'' (tagline: ''Very good intentions. Very bad clowns''). 
 Ms. Crabtree, who will also perform as Graspy McTakeItAll, a sort of kleptomaniacal clown, said the festival had grown to attract a broader crowd: ''The first year the audience was clowns and friends of clowns. But last year we saw a lot of new faces, and I think this year is going to be even more.'' Well, they have a pretty good method of getting attention: the festival begins on Friday with a clown parade in Union Square. 
 ''We have 400 noses to pass out this year,'' Ms. Crabtree said. Anyone who ever dreamed of running away to join the circus can don one for the L train ride to the festival's home, the Brick Theater in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. There's a marching band and majorettes, and the whole shebang ends with an indoor pie fight. You can participate, but try not to sneeze. (Through Sept. 28, Brick Theater, 575 Metropolitan Avenue, near Union Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-907-6189, bricktheater.com/clown; $15 for most events.) MELENA RYZIK 
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. Every Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 8:30 p.m., ''SonicVision,'' an animated alternative-music show, is presented in the Rose Center; tickets, $15; $12 for members. Through Jan. 4, ''The Horse'' examines the ways in which humans and horses are linked. Through Jan. 5, ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive!,'' a display of more than 60 live reptiles from five continents. In the Imax theater, playing every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Sea Monsters: A Prehistoric Adventure,'' about reptiles found beneath the water 80 million years ago. Timed tickets to ''The Horse'' and ''Lizards & Snakes: Alive!,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for those 2 to 12. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center for Earth and Space admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for those 2 to 12. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 769-5100 or (212) 769-5200; amnh.org.
 HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. Friday, 6 to 11 p.m.; Saturday, 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.; and Sunday 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., the Richmond County Fair. $15; free for children under 5. (718) 351-1611. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Thursday at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., screenings of the HBO documentary ''In Memoriam: New York City, 9/11/01.'' Through Nov. 4, ''Campaigning for President: New York and the American Election,'' an exhibition of campaign memorabilia, including buttons, banners, posters and clothing; the display is from the collection of Jordan M. Wright, who died on May 11 and was its guest curator. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society.
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Nov. 2, ''Plague in Gotham!: Cholera in Nineteenth-Century New York,'' an exhibition examining the cholera epidemics in New York beginning with the first in 1832, featuring illustrated maps, portraits and displays of remedies. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the Museum of the City of New York.
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Through Oct. 31, ''Take Me Out to the Ball Game: 100 Years of Music, Musicians and the National Pastime,'' an exhibition of slides, photographs, sheet music and recordings that focus on the game's influence on composers like Irving Berlin, Charles Ives, William Schuman and George M. Cohan. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 870-1630, nypl.org. Free. 
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through Dec. 7, ''Tools of the Trade,'' an exhibition of 50 items that have been used to build and maintain the city's transportation system since the 1880s; included are an anemometer (wind gauge), a pneumatic drill and signal locks. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. (718) 694-1600. $5; $3 for ages 3 to 17 and 62+; free for members and children under 3 every day, and for 62+ on Wednesdays. At the Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, next to the stationmaster's office, on view through Nov. 2, ''What's New?'' a display of items recently added to the museum's collection that include a World War II air raid siren from an elevated subway station. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free.
 THE PALEY CENTER FOR MEDIA, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Through Sunday, a display of artwork inspired by the television series ''Family Guy,'' with simultaneous screenings of episodes from the show. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays). (212) 621-6600; paleycenter.org. $10; $8 for students and 62+; $5 for children under 14. 
 WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Friday, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., an urban beekeeping workshop; $30; $20 for members. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; Tuesdays and Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon. 
 Events
 ARTS ON THE COMMONS, Friday at 2 p.m., MetroTech Center, Myrtle Avenue between Jay Street and Flatbush Avenue, downtown Brooklyn. Free entertainment. This Friday, Dominic Kanza and the African Rhythm Machine. 
 BIG APPLE PERFORMING ARTS FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Seventh Avenue, from 47th to 57th Streets, Manhattan. 
 BROOME STREET BLOCK PARTY, from Ludlow to Orchard Streets, Lower East Side. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
 CHELSEA REFORMED DEMOCRATS CLUB FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Eighth Avenue, from 14th to 23rd Streets, Manhattan. 
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., a chamber music concert featuring the music of Elliott Carter and Olivier Messiaen, with faculty members, students and guest artists. (212) 817-8607. Free. 
 DAY OF REMEMBRANCE AT TRINITY CHURCH AND ST. PAUL'S CHAPEL, Lower Manhattan, on Thursday, to mark the seventh anniversary of the terrorist attacks of 9/11. At St. Paul's Chapel, Broadway and Fulton Street, ringing of the Bell of Hope at 8:46 a.m., followed at 1:30 p.m. by a civic service of remembrance. At Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall Street, prayers at 8:15 a.m., followed at 10 a.m. by a performance by the Downtown Glee Club, a service at 12:05 p.m. and musical meditations throughout the day. 
 81ST FEAST OF SAN GENNARO begins on Thursday and runs daily through Sept. 21, 11:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. (until midnight on Saturdays and Sundays), on Mulberry Street, between Canal and Houston Streets, and Hester and Grand Streets, between Mott and Baxter Streets, Little Italy. On Thursday at 5 p.m., an outdoor mass will be held in honor of the victims of the terrorist attacks of 9/11, followed at 6 p.m. by a blessing of the streets. 
 FOURTH ANNUAL SOLAR-POWERED FILM SERIES, Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., eco-friendly-theme movies and shorts. Stuyvesant Cove Park, along the East River, south of 23rd Street, Manhattan; solar1.org. Free. 
 HARLEM MEER PERFORMANCE FESTIVAL, Sunday, 2 to 4 p.m., a jazz and blues performance by the pianist Genovis Albright. Presented by Chase and the Central Park Conservancy, Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, Central Park, 110th Street and Fifth Avenue. centralparknyc.org. Free.
 MY GOOD DEED.ORG 9/11 DAY OF SERVICE, for volunteer work on Thursday at events already scheduled or those suggested by volunteers. Scheduled programs to take place from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Public School 124, 40 Division Street, Chinatown; and from 8:15 a.m. to 2 p.m. at several Bronx locations, including Clara Barton Elementary School, 1550 Vyse Avenue, near East 172nd Street, in the Crotona Park section. Sponsored by mygooddeed.org, a nonprofit organization formed by friends and relatives of victims of the terrorist attacks of 9/11. Online registration through Tuesday at mygooddeed.org/sign-up. (212) 613-4979.
 NEW YORK CITY CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL PARADE, Saturday at 10 a.m. on Fifth Avenue, from 44th to 72nd Streets. 
 OASIS 5, a free dance performance by the Silver-Brown Dance Company to mark the anniversary of the terrorist attacks of 9/11, on Thursday at 7 p.m. in Brooklyn Bridge Park, Main and Plymouth Streets, Dumbo. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy. 
 ROLLER HOCKEY GAMES, Stanley Isaacs Park, 96th Street and First Avenue, Manhattan. Matches weekends through Nov. 23; finals, weekends Dec. 6 through Dec. 14. Saturday, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., weather permitting. Sponsored by the Manhattan Roller Hockey League. (888) 674-5411; manhattanrollerhockeyleague.com. Free. 
 ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S CHURCH STREET FESTIVAL, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on 52nd Street, between Lexington and Seventh Avenues. 
 THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY STREET THEATER presents ''It's the Economy, Stupid! or the Turning Point'' on Saturday, at Wise Towers, West 90th Street, between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues; on Sunday, in Washington Square Park, Greenwich Village. Both are at 2 p.m. (212) 254-1109. Free.
 MANHATTAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE STREET FAIR, Third Avenue, from 66th to 86th Streets, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
 UNITED NATIONS FESTIVAL, Friday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on 47th Street, between First and Second Avenues, Manhattan. 
 WASHINGTON SQUARE OUTDOOR ART EXHIBITION, on the sidewalks north, south and east of Washington Square Park, in Greenwich Village. Saturday and Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. Rain or shine. (212) 982-6255; washingtonsquareoutdoorartexhibit.org.
 Spoken Word
 HOWL FESTIVAL, a six-day festival of poetry, music and readings at various East Village locations, beginning on Friday. Many events are free. Schedule: howlfestival.com. 
 92ND STREET Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Sunday at 8 p.m., ''Shea Goodbye: 45 Years of Amazin,'' a discussion with the former Mets players Keith Hernandez, Darryl Strawberry and Ron Darling, with Gary Cohen, the television broadcaster covering the Mets for SportsNet New York. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Wynton Marsalis will discuss jazz and life. (212) 415-5500. Each, $27. 
 'THE BUNGALOWS OF ROCKAWAY,' Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., a screening of a documentary in progress about the area, followed by a discussion with the filmmakers, Jennifer Callahan and Elizabeth Logan Harris and others. Presented by the Historic Districts Council. (212) 614-9107, anthologyfilmarchives.org. $15; $10 for students, 62+ and members of the Council. 
 Walking Tours
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT, Sunday at 11 a.m., a walking tour of Astoria, meeting in Queens on the southeast corner of Broadway and Steinway Street. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. $13; $10 for members; $8 for students and 62+. 
 CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Weekend tours of Central Park. Sunday at noon, ''Cross-Park Promenade,'' meeting at the statue of Samuel F. B. Morse, at Fifth Avenue and 72nd Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''The Castle and Its Kingdom,'' meeting at Belvedere Castle, midpark at 79th Street. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 EIGHTH STREET AND ST. MARKS PLACE Saturday at 11:30 a.m., a look at the area's history and famous residents, meeting on the northwest corner of Second Avenue and St. Marks Place, East Village. Sponsored by the Village Alliance Business Improvement District. (212) 777-2173. Free.
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS, Saturday at 12:30 p.m., ''The Hidden Treasures of New York,'' with stops at the Shakespeare Garden in Central Park, the Biblical Gardens of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine and the Morris-Jumel Mansion, meeting on the southeast corner of 77th Street and Central Park West. (732) 270-5559. $25, plus 1-Day Fun Card, at $7.50, for bus and train fare. 
 IN-DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m., ''Ely Jacques Kahn's Art Deco New York,'' meeting on the southwest corner of Seventh Avenue and 45th Street, Manhattan. (917) 607-9019. $20. 
 JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORK Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Artists, Real Estate Law and an Expanding Middle Class,'' a Central Park West walk, meeting on the southeast corner of 77th Street and Central Park West, across from the New-York Historical Society. (212) 242-5762. $15; $12 for 65+.
 LINCOLN SQUARE: GATEWAY TO THE UPPER WEST SIDE, the first and third Sunday of every month, through October, at 2 p.m., tours of this Manhattan neighborhood, meeting on the southwest corner of Broadway and 60th Street. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. (212) 581-3774. Free.
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., visiting Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 10 a.m., ''Terra Incognito: The Great Circle Tour,'' visiting the World Trade Center and Staten Island, including a walk over the Bayonne Bridge. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 935-2075, mas.org. $20; $25 for members, plus subway fare.
 NYC DUCKS, 75-minute tours of Midtown on land, combined with a water tour on the Hudson River, daily through Dec. 31, starting at 10 a.m. Reservations necessary: (888) 838-2570; nycducks.com. $19; $9 for ages 3 to 11. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. and Thursday at 6 p.m., ''Historic TriBeCa and Sept. 11 Remembrance Tour.'' Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $16. 
 PHOTO WALK-ABOUTS, tours of several Manhattan locations, with instruction in photography. Friday at 2 p.m., Central Park, meeting near the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. Saturday at 10 a.m., Greenwich Village, meeting at Father Demo Square, Avenue of the Americas at Bleecker Street; Saturdays at 2 p.m., the Financial District, meeting at Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street, Lower Manhattan. (917) 557-3693; photowalkabouts.com. Each, $20 (cash only). 
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 8 a.m., the NYC Marathon Walk, a 24-mile walk that encompasses four boroughs, meeting in Brooklyn in front of the bagel store at 94th Street and Fifth Avenue, Bay Ridge. (212) 330-7686. Donations accepted; members, free. 
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 6 p.m., ''Ghostly Greenwich Village,'' meeting at the Washington Square Arch. (212) 969-8262. $10.
 UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORK Saturdays at 2 p.m., a tour that focuses on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Abraham Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership and Big Onion Walking Tours. (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org. Free.
 URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE Saturday at 11 a.m., a four-mile walk of the Lower East Side, meeting at the intersection of Fulton and Water Streets. (718) 420-9569; urbantrail.org; $3, plus subway fare.
 Recreation
 FITNESS MIND, BODY, SPIRIT GAMES Saturday in Central Park, with four-mile runs for men (at 8:30 a.m.) and women (9:30 a.m.) and a race for children at 10:45 a.m. The event also features fitness demonstrations, seminars and clinics. Center Road, south of the 72nd Street Transverse. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club and Fitness Magazine. Advance registration: $30; $20 for members; $14 for members ages 18 and younger; $6 for children's races. Race-day registration: $35, $25 and $15; $8 for children's races. (212) 860-4455; nyrr.org. 
 NYC CENTURY BIKE TOUR, Sunday, with courses from 15 to 100 miles in city streets covering all boroughs but Staten Island, leaving from the north end of Central Park, at 110th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard. Start times, from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m., depending on the course. Sponsored by Transportation Alternatives. (212) 629-8080; nyccentury.org. Advance fees: $60; $50 for members; $30 for those under 18. On Sunday: $65, $55 and $40. Proceeds benefit programs to enhance biking in the city. 
 THIRD BROOKLYN BRIDGE SWIM Saturday at 8:45 a.m., a one-kilometer swim, across the East River and underneath the Brooklyn Bridge, beginning off East River Park, Dover Street, north of the South Street Seaport, Lower Manhattan. Registration is closed. nycswim.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); HISTORY (77%); HORSES (77%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



91 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH AND LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Defaults Could Net Bigger Fish

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris

 BODY:
The weak go first, and people take comfort from the very weakness of the fallen. The fact it is only the weak who are suffering is taken as proof that there is no general problem.
 That is how it was with the mortgage mess, which is still called the subprime crisis even though it has long since spread. Now there are more prime mortgages going into foreclosure than there are subprime ones.
 The world of corporate loans now looks like mortgages, circa 2007. Defaults are on the rise, but they are concentrated among small companies in industries with big problems. 
 Standard & Poor's Leveraged Commentary and Data reported this week that the default rate -- the percentage of leveraged loans in default -- rose to a five-year high of 3.3 percent in August. At the end of last year, the rate was a tiny 0.24 percent, or about one of 400 loans.
 ''There have been no high-profile, high-impact defaults,'' S.& P. reported. ''Defaults this year have been more plentiful than painful.'' It pointed out that while 3.3 percent of loans are in default, those loans amount to just 2 percent of the money lent. Few big loans have gone bad.
 The loans that have gone bad have been concentrated in two industries -- real estate and auto parts. S.& P. calculates that they have accounted for almost half of this year's defaults. Gambling has also had problems, as it turns out that there are too many casinos in some places.
 One of the three August defaults was Star-Tribune, the publisher of the Minneapolis newspaper. Investors fear that other publishers will follow, and several of them have loans trading at distressed prices.
 It has been easy to write off as unimportant most of the recent defaults. WCI Communities? What did you expect from a home builder with major operations in Florida? Intermec? It is an auto parts supplier that was overburdened by debt when it came out of its previous bankruptcy in 2005. Those were the other two defaults last month. Neither produced headlines.
 But the trends that felled those companies are present for many others, and just as good times can reinforce themselves, so can bad times. Linens 'N Things is a retailer that went private in a 2006 leveraged buyout and went bankrupt earlier this year. It has a reorganization plan that wipes out some creditors and gives others stock in the company, worth perhaps a quarter of what they lent. It is closing a lot of stores, and has negotiated lower rents on others. That won't help the landlords, or those who lent to them. 
 To make things worse, the banks that were lending with abandon little more than a year ago now are erring on the side of caution. ''The tightening already appears to be more widespread than it was during the early 1990s,'' said Eric Rosengren, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, in a speech this week, ''and portends more difficulty in financing business fixed-investment and commercial real estate projects in the second half of this year.''
 This is a crisis that appeared in early 2007, as subprime mortgage lenders began to fail. (Remember all the happy talk about how there were not that many subprime mortgage loans anyway, and that the problem would be contained, whatever that meant?) But it has taken until now for there to be clear signs that the problems were spreading beyond mortgage lending and real estate.
 Why has it moved so slowly?
 One reason is that the excesses of the lending spree both assured the crisis would come and delayed its arrival until it could be worse.
 It now appears that the vintage 2006 and early 2007 mortgages were very risky not just because home prices were high and lending standards low. Many homeowners who bought in 2004 and 2005 refinanced their mortgages in later years, often taking out large amounts of cash. Those refinancings prevented problems from appearing earlier, and made the later problems larger for those who had the misfortune to have invested in securities backed by the post-2005 loans.
 Similarly, the leveraged loan market in 2006 and the first half of 2007 featured banks competing with one another to make foolish loans. There was a flood of ''covenant-lite'' and ''toggle-PIK'' loans. The first feature stopped the bank from stepping in until the borrower actually missed a payment, rather than when it violated a financial covenant related to assets or profits. The second feature made it almost impossible for a borrower to miss a payment. If it did not have the cash to pay interest, it could ''pay in kind'' by taking out more loans.
 That has meant that as some leveraged buyout loans have grown dicier this year, the banks have been able to do little except watch nervously. If, or when, those companies do go broke, the losses will be larger than they would have been if defaults could have been declared earlier.
 Those who dismiss talk of a credit crunch -- a phrase now adopted by Fed officials -- point out that banks appear to be lending more than ever. ''Over the past year bank assets have actually grown, particularly at the largest institutions,'' Mr. Rosengren said in his speech to business executives in Manchester, N.H.
 But he argued that is one reason the problem is getting worse. ''Much of this growth likely reflects involuntary lending, that is, banks expanding assets in response to liquidity commitments they extended during the previous good times,'' he said. The banks took in fees for promising to back up commercial paper and for extending lines of credit they never expected to be used. 
 They originated leveraged loans expecting to sell them quickly, and agreed to ''liquidity triggers'' that now force them to buy municipal bonds no one else wants.
 ''Swelling bank assets,'' said Mr. Rosengren, ''place pressure on capital-constrained banks to pull back in other areas.'' That is Fed-speak for ''make the banks unwilling to lend, except at high rates to safe borrowers.'' Some companies that might have made it with a little tolerance from their banker will get none, and will wind up in bankruptcy.
 The weak go first. But they will not be alone.

GRAPHIC: CHART: DEFAULT RATE ON LEVERAGED LOANS: Over 12-month periods, as a percent of loans outstanding. (Source: Standard & Poor's Leveraged Commentary and Data) Chart details line graph. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FORECLOSURE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); TRENDS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); GOING PRIVATE (64%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (64%); RETAILERS (60%)

COMPANY: WCI COMMUNITIES INC (53%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



92 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: BP Compromises on Russian Oil Venture

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
After months of wrangling, BP reached a deal Thursday on its joint venture in Russia, agreeing to dismiss the chief executive it appointed and to give greater control to its Russian partners in return for retaining access to the large oilfields in Siberia that are one of the company's most valuable assets.
 Though BP, the British oil giant with interests around the world, was impelled to make concessions, senior Russian officials were quick to cast the deal as a positive signal to Western investors in the wake of the war in Georgia. The timing suggested a deft maneuver to counter the slide in the Russian stock market and in investor confidence. 
 For a time it looked as if BP's assets here might be nationalized in whole or in part through a forced sale to a state company, as was the case with both the major Russian oil ventures Yukos and Royal Dutch Shell's Sakhalin Island development. But that prospect now appears less likely.
 ''This is a win-win situation,'' Caius Rapanu, chief analyst at Kit Finance, a Moscow brokerage firm, said. BP, he said, might have lost some corporate control but it could have been a lot worse. ''Just like when somebody comes and puts a gun to your back and says, 'Your wallet or your life,' and you are glad you got out with your life.''
 BP lost its struggle to retain the American chief executive, Robert Dudley, who will resign before the end of the year. He will be succeeded by an independent director under the terms of a memorandum that BP signed with the consortium of billionaires in Russia who own 50 percent of the joint venture, known as TNK-BP.
 The joint venture is a leading Russian oil producer and accounts for about a quarter of BP's worldwide oil output. The value to BP of retaining the licenses on the fields controlled by the venture could hardly be overestimated at a time when major global oil companies are struggling to find new reserves.
 Under the terms of the memorandum, which BP and the Russian partners said would eventually be written into a new corporate charter, BP also agreed to accept the creation of three independent seats on the board. That will weaken its control over the venture but at least break the deadlock of an equal number of board seats held by both sides.
 The Russian authorities underscored the importance of the deal to Moscow by using it to signal to investors that Russia still welcomed their business despite deteriorating political and diplomatic relations with the West. The official charged with doing so was the deputy prime minister, Igor Sechin, believed by most analysts to be among the Kremlin leadership's hard-liners.
 ''We are pleased that the situation normalized, and the participants in the talks arrived at an agreement on the level of shareholders, without the involvement of third parties including the government,'' Mr. Sechin said in a statement released by the Russian partners. ''This is the right signal to the whole market.''
 The statement also quoted Arkady Dvorkovich, President Dmitri Medvedev's economic adviser, praising the deal ''as a positive signal to foreign companies investing in the economy of Russia.''
 While Russia's accounts bulge with oil revenue, the country is consuming imports at a furious rate and faces a future where it may have to worry more about its ability to attract foreign investment. And in the meantime, it stands to gain from Western investment in its oilfields.
 BP's chairman, Peter Sutherland, noted that for Russia ''strong capital investment and continued technical innovation to boost declining oil output are so important.''
 Shares in TNK-BP's main subsidiary, TNK-BP Holding, rose 8.1 percent Thursday in light trading. BP's shares rose as much as 4.9 percent Thursday, but ended the day down 0.1 percent.
 In announcing the deal, the company also suggested that it might go ahead with a global public offering that would make available as much as 20 percent of the shares to investors.
 Many big investors were skeptical, however.
 ''It's a neat compromise but the proof of the pudding will be in the eating,'' said Alan Beaney, a senior fund manager at Principal Investment Management in Sevenoaks, Britain. ''Whether the new C.E.O. will satisfy both sides is a big question and who will want to buy into the I.P.O.? In essence it's a good company but do you want to be caught in between those two sides? I don't think we've seen the end of it yet.''
 Under TNK-BP's founding charter, BP had the right to nominate the chief executive, who was subject to board approval. The new agreement again allows BP to nominate a candidate but requires the new chief to speak fluent Russian and have experience in Russia's oil and natural gas sector. It was unclear whether this would be interpreted as meaning he must be a Russian.
 The deal also specified that TNK-BP would invest internationally, a point of particular importance to the Russian partners, who claimed that BP had blocked efforts to expand outside Russia for fear of competing with BP's existing or potential business elsewhere.
 In one example often cited here, BP had discouraged TNK-BP investment in Iraq's Kurdistan region as BP was seeking business in southern Iraq. Companies that do business in Kurdistan are blacklisted by the Baghdad government. The new agreement suggested such conflicts could now be settled in favor of TNK-BP.
 Stan Polovets, the representative of the consortium of Russian partners, said the agreement Thursday broadly met the goals of making TNK-BP a more independent company.
 The agreement, he said, also deflated criticism that the Russian partners were acting on behalf of a state company that might ultimately take control of the venture. ''We always said it's about corporate governance and strategy and performance, not about selling'' to the state, he said. Mr. Polovets said the timing of the resolution was unrelated to the war in Georgia.
 The TNK-BP joint venture was greeted at its creation as a Russian business and globalization success but Russian authorities quickly soured on the deal as oil prices rose and the price BP paid for entry began to seem paltry compared to the profits it was making.
 The FSB, a successor agency to the KGB, raided the venture's office and accused an employee of industrial espionage. Immigration officials also denied visas to foreign workers, including Dudley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); OAO NK YUKOS (56%); TNK-BP LTD (53%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: ROBERT DUDLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



93 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: British Companies Emigrating Over Taxes

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Already struggling with an economy on the brink of recession and a record budget deficit, Britain is facing a potential new problem: an exodus of British companies fleeing the tax system.
In the last week alone, three companies have announced plans to move their headquarters abroad before the end of the year. They say they are trying to cut their tax bills and frustrated by a lack of clarity about future tax rules.
The Henderson Group, a London-based asset management firm, and Charter, an engineering company, plan to move to Ireland. The Regus Group, the office space and business services provider, is leaving for Luxembourg. And at least two more companies, the advertising agency WPP Group and insurer Brit Insurance, said they might follow. 
The moves, which have started intense discussions among lawmakers and businesses about the competitiveness of Britain's tax system, could not come at a worse time. The government is expected to take in billions less in tax revenue because of losses at financial firms affected by the credit crisis. Merrill Lynch, for instance, may avoid paying taxes here for years after booking $29 billion in losses related to the United States subprime mortgage market through its British unit.
At the same time, Britain's record budget deficit means there is little the government can do to encourage companies to stay.
''It's a very serious issue,'' said Chris Sanger, head of tax policy at Ernst & Young in London. ''There will be knock-on effects of top management leaving the U.K. to make important decisions and the government needs to do something to address it.''
British companies are required to pay tax on profits earned in other countries where the corporate tax rate is less than Britain's 28 percent. Other countries, including the United States, have similar laws, but Britain has a stricter interpretation and offers fewer discounts, according to tax advisers.
For all its effort, the government reaps less than $:1 billion in taxes on profits companies made abroad -- a fraction of the $:47 billion it drew in corporate tax revenue last tax year. To some politicians, it's not clear that such gains are worth the risk to London's reputation as a global business hub, especially if more companies begin to set up tax residencies abroad.
In an open letter published last week, George Osborne, the opposition Conservative Party's candidate for chancellor of the Exchequer, asked the government to cut the tax and simplify the tax system to prevent companies from relocating. ''With companies leaving Britain, weakening an already ailing British economy,'' he said, the government should revisit the tax ''to restore our competitiveness and help prevent more companies from deciding to leave the U.K.''
His remarks drew a separate warning from John Cridland, deputy director general of the Confederation of British Industry, which represents about 200,000 British businesses. The ''U.K.'s uncompetitive corporate tax system is driving firms overseas,'' he said recently, and predicted more might follow.
Alistair Darling, Britain's finance minister, said that was an exaggeration, given that the British corporate tax rate is below America's 35 percent and France's 34 percent (although it is higher than in Luxembourg, Iceland and Canada). The government, he said recently, is ''actively engaging with business to ensure that we continue to discuss any concerns and respond effectively.''
Still, British-domiciled companies are finding it hard to ignore the siren call of other countries with efficient financial and infrastructure environments.
Michael Foster, the chief executive of Charter, was already attracted to Ireland because of its 12.5 percent corporate tax rate. But the icing on the cake was that the tax system appeared more stable than in Britain, where the government's yearlong review of the controversial tax law has heightened uncertainty about how much tax companies will have to pay in the future.
''We are really concerned about the complexity and insecurity of the tax laws,'' Mr. Foster said. ''We need security to be able to manage our costs as effectively as we can.''
As Britain loses some of its competitive advantage, taxes will move up the list of criteria companies look for when searching for a home, Mr. Sanger said.
Moving a company's tax residency entails months of preparations by tax advisers and accountants, and relocating a company's head office and secretarial staff abroad. The firm must prove that all major decisions concerning its strategy are made there.
Shire, the British pharmaceutical group, is already mostly out the door. It is preparing to hold its first annual shareholder meeting outside Britain since the company was set up in 1986 by a team of British entrepreneurs. Members plan to meet in Dublin later this month after Shire moved its tax residence to Ireland in April, saying the tax system there was more attractive for an international company.
Like Shire, Charter, headquartered in London, is also preparing to hold its board meetings in Dublin, Mr. Foster said.
If a pattern forms, Britain is unlikely to face major job losses. But analysts expect some migration if companies expand their head offices abroad over time -- an unwelcome development as Britain suffers from an economic downturn.
''For the U.K., the economic damage will come with the jobs that will be inevitably created abroad over time,'' said William Dodwell, a partner at the tax advisory firm Deloitte in London. ''Companies tend to hire lawyers, tax advisers and other services locally.''
Regus, which plans to complete a move to Luxembourg from Britain next month, expects the move to save it nearly $:10 million in the first year, a spokeswoman said.
To make the move easier, the company, which is based in Surrey, England, just appointed three new nonexecutive directors to its board. Two of them already live in Luxembourg.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Osborne, left, of the Conservative Party, and Alistair Darling, Britain's finance minister.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, SUZANNE PLUNKETT/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 RIGHT, PETER MACDIARMID/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); INSURANCE (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); POLITICS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (70%); WPP (LSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (70%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%)

PERSON: ALISTAIR DARLING (59%); GEORGE OSBORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



94 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: In the Produce Aisle, Solidarity for Korean Grocers

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Few immigrant groups are as closely identified with an occupational niche as Koreans with grocery stores. 
 A new book, ''Ethnic Solidarity for Economic Survival: Korean Greengrocers in New York City,'' offers a look at the complex role that ethnicity plays in those mom-and-pop businesses, which have been engines of economic mobility and opportunity for some Korean families. 
 The book, by Pyong Gap Min, a Queens College sociologist, explains why the Korean-black conflicts, which peaked in the later 1980s and early 1990s, have almost disappeared since the mid-'90s. It also explores the history of how Korean grocers organized themselves in the 1980s and '90s to deal with white wholesalers at the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx and later with labor unions representing Hispanic employees. 
 Ethnicity, however, has waned as an organizing principle for the grocers as their business-related group conflicts have dissipated, Dr. Min writes.
 In 1960, there were only 400 Koreans in New York, with a significant proportion of them students at Columbia University. The easing of immigration restrictions in 1965 led to a big influx, with about 170,500 Korean immigrants settling in the New York metropolitan region by 2000, including about 86,400 in New York City. While Flushing, Queens, became the ''epicenter'' of the New York Korean community, Dr. Min writes, suburban enclaves also sprouted up in New Jersey. 
 In 2000, 24 percent of Korean immigrants in the region were self-employed -- the third highest self-employment rate of any group, after Greeks and Israelis-Palestinians (27 percent each). 
 Koreans had high rates of self-employment because they often faced significant language barriers (on average, knowing less English than other Asian groups). They also had experience with owning businesses back home and, starting in the late 1980s, a greater ability to take capital out of Korea to start businesses here. Strong family ties and ethnic networks helped them keep the stores staffed for up to 16 hours a day, seven days a week. 
 (In later years, Koreans established niches in dry cleaning and nail salon businesses.)
 Starting in the 1970s, Korean grocers entered minority neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx by buying stores from retiring white owners or setting up new stores in vacant buildings. 
 In 1974, they formed the Korean Produce Association, which in 1980 opened a service center at the Hunts Point Market to support Korean grocers and truck drivers, who said they were mistreated and threatened by the produce wholesalers. The grocers complained that they were subject to higher prices for the same produce items, no exchanges for rotten items included in fruit boxes, refusals to sell hot items after receiving orders and false accusations of theft. 
 From 1977 to 1995, the association organized seven protests against grocery distributors. But its efforts only went so far. It tried several times from the late 1970s to the early '90s to set up a group purchasing system, Dr. Min writes, but the companies that control the market mostly defeated such efforts.
 As the grocers struggled with wholesalers, they came into increasing conflict with black customers and Latino workers. By the early 1990s, the groceries had become a significant economic presence in New York's minority neighborhoods, a process accelerated by the withdrawal of supermarkets from such areas. 
 Mutual prejudice and stereotyping, language barriers and fears of shoplifting and crime were factors in those conflicts. Korean groceries were the target of 15 boycotts by African-American customers from 1981 to 1995, Dr. Min writes. The longest was a 17-month boycott of two produce stores on Church Avenue in Flatbush, Brooklyn, which began in January 1990 and escalated into a protracted and often violent dispute that drew international attention.
 In recent years, black-Korean conflicts have largely vanished from the news, Dr. Min explains, as rezoning laws have encouraged the opening of big-box stores in some areas that have pushed smaller groceries out of business. Non-Korean immigrant business owners have increasingly set up retail stores alongside Koreans, and traditionally black neighborhoods have become more racially diverse. 
 A less heated, but equally significant, conflict involved Latino workers. Labor unions, state agencies and immigrant workers began to agitate against the grocers in late 1998, culminating in a series of labor disputes from 2000 to 2002. 
 In September 2002, the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, announced a code of conduct under which Korean business owners would pledge to abide by labor laws and allow investigators to inspect their workplaces and financial records at least twice a year. In return, the attorney general's office would ignore past violations of labor regulations.
 Korean groceries still seem ubiquitous to New Yorkers, but that may not always be true. By 2005, there were probably fewer than 1,800 Korean produce stores in the New York-New Jersey region, according to Dr. Min -- a significant decline from the early 1990s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pyong Gap Min, a sociologist, delves into the role of ethnicity in immigrant businesses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY BAREIS/QUEENS COLLEGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (88%); FAMILY (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); SUBURBS (64%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (62%); TRUCK DRIVERS (60%); LARCENY & THEFT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



95 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: $75,000 IN INCOME WAS UNREPORTED ON RANGEL TAXES

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
Representative Charles B. Rangel has earned more than $75,000 in rental income from a villa he has owned in the Dominican Republic since 1988, but never reported it on his federal or state tax returns, according to a lawyer for the congressman and documents from the resort.
 Mr. Rangel, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which writes the federal tax code, bought the beachfront villa at the Punta Cana Yacht Club and has received twice-yearly payments from the resort, which rents the property for $500 or more per night.
 Records from the development, now called the Punta Cana Resort and Club, indicated that Mr. Rangel's rental profits varied from year to year, from $2,700 in 2004 to $7,600 in 1994. 
 A lawyer for Mr. Rangel, Lanny Davis, said on Thursday that the congressman would most likely file amendments to his tax returns for the years in question. 
 Mr. Davis said Mr. Rangel's accountant believed he would most likely owe back taxes to the state and New York City. 
 But Mr. Rangel will probably have no federal tax liability, Mr. Davis said, because he considered the villa an investment rather than a vacation home, and was therefore entitled to deduct depreciation on the property, as well as taxes the resort management paid to the Dominican Republic. 
 Mr. Davis declined to release copies of the congressman's tax returns and said he was gathering documents showing how often Mr. Rangel stayed at the home during the past two decades, a critical question because the Internal Revenue Service does not allow a property owner to deduct as much depreciation on a second home that the owner uses more than 14 days per year.
 Mr. Davis said the congressman did not realize he had to declare the money as income, and was unaware of the semiannual payments from the resort because his wife, Alma, handled the family finances and conferred with their accountant, John Viardi, on tax matters.
 The money was never sent to the Rangels directly, according to Mr. Davis and resort records, but was used to defray the mortgage the company gave them when they bought the villa and $23,000 in subsequent construction costs in 2003.
 The confusion was magnified, Mr. Davis said, by the fact that the statements from the resort were sent only intermittently. The congressman declined to be interviewed, but issued a brief written statement.
 ''I have asked my accountant to review all the data recently made available to me by the Punta Cana Hotel in the Dominican Republic concerning my investment 20 or so years ago in purchasing a unit in that hotel for occasional use over the years,'' the statement said. ''Once my accountant obtains and verifies the facts, I will follow his recommendations.''
 Mr. Davis said that Mr. Rangel had paid scant attention to the villa's finances until Sunday, when The New York Post reported that the congressman had failed to declare the rental income for 2006 and 2007 on his Congressional financial disclosure forms. ''This is all news to him,'' Mr. Davis said. A review by The New York Times of the records dating back to 1996 showed that the congressman also did not report the income in 1996 through 2000. Mr. Davis said on Thursday that Mr. Rangel would most likely file amendments to the disclosure forms as well.
 The disclosure is a sworn statement, and intentionally filing a false report is a felony that carries a possible five-year prison sentence, but in most cases the House ethics committee does not punish members for errors or omissions. 
 New York State law classifies filing a false city or state tax return a felony punishable by up to four years in prison, but Kathleen M. Pakenham, a tax lawyer at the law firm of White & Case, said criminal prosecutions are rare and in most cases, the taxpayer is simply fined 20 percent of the back taxes owed. Under federal law it is a felony to ''willfully'' evade payment of taxes or file a false return, and sentences can include prison terms and fines of up to $100,000. But Daniel Goldberg, a tax law professor at the University of Maryland School of Law, said that the I.R.S. rarely pursued criminal prosecution or imposed fines in cases where no back taxes were owed. 
 Whatever his legal exposure, the tax problems present a political embarrassment for Mr. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat who has sat on the Ways and Means Committee since 1975. As chairman, Mr. Rangel has pushed for higher taxes on the wealthy, unveiling a $1.3 trillion proposal last year that businesses denounced as a threat to the economy. 
 His finances have been under scrutiny since July, after news reports that a major real estate developer had allowed him to lease four rent-stabilized apartments, including one he had used as a campaign office. Mr. Rangel announced he would give up the campaign office, but keep the other three, and asked the House ethics committee to investigate whether the landlord's decision to charge him below-market rent should be restricted under the Congressional gift ban.
 In his memoir, ''And I Haven't Had a Bad Day Since,'' Mr. Rangel described his deep affection for the Dominican retreat.
 ''As I've spent time basking in the sun on the beach at Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic, where I have a little house facing a big ocean, and beholding the beauty of the Caribbean Sea in total relaxation, I've thought of telling God not to worry about me if it turns out there's an overbooking or backlog on people waiting to get into heaven,'' the congressman wrote. ''I'll be okay right here until it's time for me to come.'' 
 The villa, Casita 412, has three bedrooms and three bathrooms and is decorated with coral stone, heavy rattan furniture and stylish island fabrics. In July, a Times reporter visited the villa, which is nestled among palm trees with a stunning view of the ocean.
 Mr. Rangel bought it for $82,750 20 years ago, according to documents from the resort. He was urged to buy the property by Theodore Kheel, a New York labor lawyer who was one of the principal investors in a plan to turn the southeast Dominican coast from a mostly deserted jungle into a tourist destination. 
 In 1984, Mr. Kheel and several partners opened a private airport in Punta Cana and by 1987 were soliciting buyers for properties at the resorts they were building nearby.
 In a written statement on Thursday, Mr. Kheel said the congressman's interest in the project was more recreational than financial. ''The purpose of that investment was not to create cash payments to Mr. Rangel, but rather, to have a place for occasional vacations for himself and his family similar to a time share,'' the statement read.
 Over the past 20 years, Punta Cana Resort and Club -- in which Julio Iglesias and Oscar de la Renta are among the investors -- has become a premier luxury vacation spot, with a golf course, tennis courts, pristine beachfront and a 1,500-acre nature preserve just outside its gates. 
 Mr. Rangel's recent financial disclosure forms listed the value of the property at more than $250,000, but Mr. Davis said its value was unclear because few of the casitas had been sold in recent years.
 While units like Mr. Rangel's rent for more than $1,100 a night in peak season, the congressman received only a fraction of that that income because of management fees, insurance and Dominican withholding taxes, which together accounted for more than half of the total rent received, according to Frank R. Ranieri, one of the founders of the resort. In a letter released by Mr. Rangel's office on Thursday, Mr. Ranieri wrote that the remaining 47 percent of the rent collected for the villas was then pooled and then divided among the owners of all the villas. 
 Mr. Davis said that while Mr. Rangel's failure to report the income from the villa was regrettable, it would be inaccurate to infer that the congressman was trying to conceal a highly lucrative investment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Charles B. Rangel's three-bedroom villa at the Punta Cana Resort and Club in the Dominican Republic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Rangel said through his lawyer that he did not know that he had to report the rent he received on the villa as income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); RESORTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



96 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: In the End, BP Makes Deep Concessions in Agreement With Russian Partner

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
In a deal that will allow BP to keep a crucial asset, but at a cost of ceding some control, the company came to an agreement with its Russian partners Thursday over its joint oil venture here, ending months of acrimony and threats. 
 In the end, BP agreed to dismiss the American chief executive it had appointed to head the joint venture and give some board seats to its Russian partners. In exchange, BP will retain its stake in the joint venture, TNK-BP, and with it, access to the large oil fields of Siberia.
 Although BP ceded to every demand from its partners, analysts said the outcome could have been worse for the company. Indeed, for months it looked as if BP would lose all or part of its Russian assets in a forced sale to a state company. Now that prospect looks less likely. 
 But the relief is relative. ''Just like when somebody comes and puts a gun to your back and says, 'Your wallet or your life,' and you are glad you got out with your life,'' Caius Rapanu, chief analyst at Kit Finance in Moscow said in a telephone interview. 
 Both the Russian oil giant Yukos and Shell's Sakhalin Island development were part of forced sales to state companies.
 BP's stock climbed more than 3 percent on news of the compromise.
 Though BP was compelled to make concessions, senior Russian officials were quick to cast the deal as a positive signal to Western investors in the wake of the war in Georgia, in a move meant to counter a slide in the Russian stock market and in investor confidence. 
 But the resolution of the conflict -- for now at least -- also underlines Russia's significant sway over Western interests, 17 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union and its joining the world economy. 
 Like China, another country that sometimes falls from favor politically, trade has made it integral to the profits of many American and European companies, even outside oil and gas. 
 Boeing and Airbus, for example, rely on Russia for more than 50 percent of the titanium in their airplanes, including such critical parts as the landing gear on the new 787 Dreamliner, scheduled to make its maiden flights this fall. 
 ''Russia wants to have an open economy, believe it or not,'' Roland Nash, head of research at Renaissance Capital, said. ''Russia really wants to have foreign investment.''
 Since the war in Georgia, though, relations with the West have grown increasingly contentious. The first warnings of a possible trade war came soon after the guns went quiet. 
 Russia bowed out of negotiations to join the World Trade Organization and will remain the world's largest economy that is not part of the group. Frozen chicken thighs, a major American export to Russia, quickly rose to the attention of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, who said suppliers including Tyson Chicken of Arkansas would be banned, ostensibly on health grounds. 
 The Bush administration signaled it would halt work on a deal to allow Russia to export nuclear reactor fuel to the United States.
 Yet current customers of Russian nuclear reactor fuel, including Switzerland, France and Germany, did not raise the prospect of halting this business. Russia's Tvel company supplies 17 percent of the world's low-enriched uranium fuel, mostly to Eastern Europe, China and India. 
 Thanks to globalization, Avisma, a formerly closed military plant in the Ural Mountains, now supplies titanium to both Boeing and Airbus, and is a major supplier to the jet engine makers Pratt & Whitney, General Electric and Rolls-Royce. 
 ''Severing the business would be catastrophic for either side,'' Marina V. Alekseyenkova, an industrial analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow, said. ''There is mutual dependence.''
 The European Union, which has a generally softer line on Russia than the United States does, accounts for 50 percent of Russia's trade, principally gas and oil; the United States accounts for 5 percent. 
 But Russia's vulnerabilities are longer term. The country is pursing an economic diversification plan called 2020, hoping to escape the boom and bust commodity cycles that plagued the Soviet Union and Russia for decades. To do so, its businesses must both globalize and attract foreign investment and expertise into Russia. Energy revenue now accounts for 70 percent of exports and 60 percent of the budget. 
 The oil wealth, however, has made Russia a major buyer of dollar bonds for its Central Bank and sovereign wealth funds, including bonds of mortgage backed securities. The country has the largest reserves after China and Japan, and dumping these bonds could weaken an already troubled American banking system.
 ''I don't think Russia would suffer much,'' Ivan Tchakarov, vice president for emerging market research at Lehman Brothers, said in a telephone interview of the outcome of any trade war after the real war. ''The West would suffer more.''
 Under the BP deal, the American chief executive, Robert Dudley, will resign before the end of the year. He will be replaced by a director nominated by BP and approved by the board under a memorandum of understanding BP signed with the consortium of Russian billionaires that owns 50 percent of the joint venture, known as TNK-BP. 
 In addition, there will be three independent seats on the board, though how they will be appointed is unclear. BP and the Russians partners will each appoint four other representatives. 
 The value to BP of retaining the licenses held by the joint venture could hardly be overestimated at a time when oil companies are struggling to find new reserves. TNK-BP is Russia's third-largest oil producer and accounts for about a quarter of BP's worldwide oil output. It is also one of Russia's most high-profile foreign investments. 
 Russian authorities said flatly the deal should signal to investors that Russia welcomes their business.
 ''The participants in the talks arrived at an agreement on the level of shareholders, without the involvement of third parties, such as the government,'' deputy prime minister Igor I. Sechin said in a statement released by the Russian partners. ''This is the right signal to the whole market.'' 
 Mr. Sechin, when he was a member of Mr. Putin's presidential administration, was seen as instrumental in the dismantling of Yukos.
 To be sure, businesses are still on edge. The RTS stock market dropped to a two-year low on Thursday. And the government's bellicose tone is spooking investors, at a time when dropping oil prices are already making Russia a less attractive investment case.
 ''They've thrown the rule book out the window,'' said one banker, who did not want to be quoted criticizing the government. ''Now they say, 'If you don't like it, what are you going to do about it?' ''
 Many big investors were skeptical that this dispute was really over. 
 ''It's a neat compromise, but the proof of the pudding will be in the eating,'' said Alan Beaney, a senior fund manager at Principal Investment Management in Sevenoaks, England, said of the BP settlement. 
 ''Whether the new C.E.O. will satisfy both sides is a big question,'' he added. ''In essence it's a good company, but do you want to be caught in between those two sides? I don't think we've seen the end of it yet.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Dudley, the American chief executive of the TNK-BP joint venture, is to resign before the end of the year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS SINYAKOV/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); POULTRY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); TRADE DISPUTES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (90%); TNK-BP LTD (57%); OAO NK YUKOS (55%); AIRBUS SAS (52%); BOEING CO (52%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (90%); RDSA (AMS) (90%); RDS.B (NYSE) (90%); RDS.A (NYSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: ROBERT DUDLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



97 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words

 BODY:
TOBACCO DEAL Altria Group is said to be near a deal to buy UST., the maker of wines and smokeless tobacco products, for about $12 billion. [C1.]
 LEHMAN'S FATE Lehman Brothers, the troubled Wall Street investment bank, is contemplating placing about $30 billion of troublesome commercial mortgages and real estate that it owns into a new, publicly traded company. [C1.] 
 BALANCING ACT The decline in oil prices is tricky for OPEC leaders: cutting production could paint the cartel as greedy, but leaving production unchanged could lead to a price collapse. [C1.]
 VIRTUAL PLAYBOOK ESPN is working on new technology with Electronic Arts that would allow sports commentators to interact with three-dimensional virtual players. 
 STRENGTHENING CAPITAL BASE The investments that China's central bank made in the United States have been declining sharply, and the bank is discussing ways to shore up its capital. [C1.]
 LOAN PROBLEMS Defaults on corporate loans are rising, but they are concentrated among small companies in industries with big problems. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [C1.]
 STOCKS TUMBLE Investors sent stocks plunging, pushing the Dow Jones industrials down 345 points after retailers and the government added to a mountain of bad economic news. [C4.]
 SLUGGISH SALES Many retailers reported weak sales for August, but Wal-Mart posted a solid gain that beat Wall Street expectations, as consumers shopped for low-price goods. [C4.]
 JOBLESS CLAIMS RISE Unemployment claims jumped unexpectedly last week, while companies responded to the slowing economy by producing more with fewer workers. [C4.]
 STANDING PAT The European Central Bank and the Bank of England left interest rates unchanged while waiting to assess inflationary risks. [C4.]
 LOAN INQUIRY The attorney general of New York is planning to sue Goal Financial, a student loan company, for misleading consumers and luring borrowers with cash and gifts. [C5.]
 COVER MODEL To woo viewers to the drama series ''Dexter,'' Showtime will run ads in magazines that look almost exactly like the covers of those publications. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.]
 RUSSIAN TARGETS Some European Union policy makers are suggesting that the best way to influence the Kremlin is to put pressure on oligarchs with close ties to Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, like Roman Abramovich, above, owner of the Chelsea soccer club. [C6.]
 CEDING CONTROL BP came to an agreement with its Russian partners over its joint oil venture that will allow it to keep its stake, but relinquish some control. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); WINERIES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); CARTELS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); SPORTS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); EURO (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); PRINT ADVERTISING (66%); SOCCER (63%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (61%)

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (93%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (53%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



98 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Buying Into the Vineyard Lifestyle

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
GARETH AND BARBARA GENNER assumed they would eventually buy a vacation home in Italy. They had family in Milan and enjoyed touring some of their favorite Italian wineries. It was a good way to keep their cellar in Atlanta growing with hard-to-find wines.
 And then there was reality. While owning a house in Italy would be fun, it wasn't practical. They already had three vacation homes scattered across the United States, and didn't always have time to visit them that often. Italy would be an even bigger stretch. 
 Instead, they brought Italy to Georgia. For $1.2 million, they had a replica Italian villa built at Montaluce Winery and Estates, a new home and vineyard development in Dahlonega, Ga., about an hour north of Atlanta. The three-story house, painted the same tinge of orange as Tuscan farmhouses, is set among rolling hills of vineyards they say resemble those of Umbria. 
 ''We bluntly wanted to recreate the feeling we had in Italy,'' said Mr. Genner, 49, a former managing director of an educational consulting firm and currently president of an Atlanta preparatory school. ''Once you're there, you believe you're in Tuscany.'' 
 The housing market has soured, mortgages are drying up and the economy is weak. Second-home sales are at their lowest level in five years, according to the National Association of Realtors, and some builders are scrambling to fight off bankruptcy. But developers are finding that homes built around wineries or vineyards are still selling among wealthier buyers.
 ''The market gets more elastic when people think they're getting a once-in-a-lifetime moment,'' said Adam Ducker, managing director of RCLCO, a real estate advisory firm in Washington, D.C., that has provided consulting services for winery-home developments. ''They're purchases of passion and not financial sense.''
 To many prospective buyers, wine represents an enviable way of life full of good food, healthy living and close friends and family. Growing grapes is seen as a way to attain that life.
 ''It's a lifestyle we're selling,'' said Rob Beecham, an owner of Beecham Builders, the Atlanta-based developer of Montaluce. ''It's a lifestyle that everyone is missing. Very few people take time to enjoy life now.''
 Builders are turning to wine as a way to beef up home sales and make their projects stand out. Many second-home developments now come with community cellars, wine tastings and wine dinners. Some are wine-related in name only or use vineyards as landscaping.
 Gary Scott, a developer in Washington State, revised plans for his 500-acre housing community after market research reports showed potential buyers were oenophiles. Out went a project centered exclusively around golf courses, and in came 30 acres of vines, a vintner's club, a wine cellar, wine dinners and an on-site sommelier.
 ''Golf was a necessity, but the pizzazz was that we were right in the middle of Washington wine country,'' said Mr. Scott, an owner of the Vineyards Resort in Wapato, Wash.
 Even small landowners are using vineyards to sell homes. Tom Johnson, a former director of Ralph Lauren Polo store development, bought 41 acres with vineyards in the Finger Lakes region three years ago and built two homes out of restored 19th-century barns. He lives in one and put the other one, the Ericsson Barn, a four-bedroom house with copper countertops, antique wood floors and lake views, on the market for $1.25 million in July. Eventually, he plans to bring three other old barns onto the property and turn them into homes. Each homeowner will own a share of the property's 30-acre vineyard, called the Milo Vineyard in Milo, N.Y.
 ''There's something about living near a vineyard, participating in the community of winemakers without having to make it, that's incredibly appealing,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 Ranchers and winery owners are also cashing in and becoming home developers. At Kiepersol Estates in Tyler, Tex., Pierre de Wet started carving out parcels from his cattle ranch to sell to wannabe winemakers and enthusiasts 10 years ago after he grew tired of the ups and downs of farming.
 ''Agriculture is a very, very tough way to make a living,'' Mr. de Wet said. ''You make a living, but you never get ahead. Part of farming is to have an exit strategy. This is the highest value I can get for my property.'' 
 Mr. de Wet's cattle ranch has been transformed into ''the land of beef and wine,'' a combination winery, ranch, bed-and-breakfast, digital recording facility and property developments. There are vintner dinners at the on-site restaurant, wine tastings at the winery and vineyards dotting his property. Homes are tucked into wooded lots of two to five acres, with prices averaging around $20,000 an acre. 
 AFTER growing tired of traffic and crime in Houston, Jay Albrecht and his wife, Shelley, bought a two-and-a-half-acre lot and had a four-bedroom house with a five-car garage built for $625,000. After months of shuttling back and forth between Houston and Tyler, they decided to sell their home in Houston and relocate to Kiepersol Estates in June. In the coming year, they expect to plant cabernet grapes on the acre behind the house.
 ''I got so sick and tired of Houston. I really wanted to have enough room to stretch out,'' said Mr. Albrecht, 47, chief executive of an oil and gas service company. ''You've got to enjoy the slower pace of life one sip at a time.''
 Wine may be a good way to sell real estate, but it's not always a guarantee to quick sales. Patricia Kluge, founder of Kluge Estate Winery and Vineyard in Virginia, carved out hundreds of acres from her 2,000-acre estate for private homes where homeowners could grow grapes and make wine. She now expects the 24 homesites, which start at more than $2 million, to sell out in four years instead of two. (She's sold three sites on Vineyard Estates at Kluge Estate Winery this year and expects two more to sell by the end of the year.) Mr. Scott in Washington State had to delay his construction schedule twice after banks reneged on their construction loans. Financing is finally in place and the groundbreaking is expected this month. 
 At Montaluce in Georgia, Mr. Beecham said sales were slower than he would have liked, but were still doing well. Lots are priced from $70,000 to $600,000 and homes from $370,000 to $1.35 million. He expects to finish the 400-acre project, which will eventually include a hotel and 300 homes, in five or six years. The sluggish economy doesn't faze him, though, because his custom-home building company caters to the wealthy and is still doing well. Mr. Beecham and his family have also invested their own money heavily in the $400 million project.
 In a sense, Mr. Beecham is investing in his own future. He always thought he would retire in Italy or California, somewhere he could relax and watch his grapes grow. But instead of flying to Italy twice a year, he sees Montaluce as a place where he can go every weekend and eventually retire.
 Big-name winemakers have also been drawn to pairing wine with second homes. Michael Mondavi, the eldest son of the vintner Robert Mondavi, is an investor in Aetna Springs, a resort in Napa Valley that had become rundown over the years. Plans for the 1873-era private club include a winery, hotel, restaurant, golf course, houses and vineyards. The sites, 40-acre plots with a potential for vineyards, will range from $2.7 million to $4.5 million. 
 For Mr. Mondavi, who had turned down 37 different projects since leaving his family's winery, Aetna Springs was a way to restore a private club he once enjoyed as a child. ''This is something I could be proud of in 10 to 15 years and that would complement the valley,'' Mr. Mondavi said.
 The Genners in Atlanta hope eventually to make wine at Montaluce, which also offers wine dinners, a resident sommelier who leads a ''wine university'' on Saturdays, and a program where residents can participate in the wine making process from harvest to bottling for $10,000. In the meantime, they spend nearly every weekend at the property, fly fishing, sampling wine and hosting dinner parties.
 ''Every friend who's been there realizes that you start relaxing after a few hours,'' Mr. Genner said. ''Many of our friends invite themselves. It's not exceptional to have 10 people around our table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE GOOD LIFE: Jay and Shelley Albrecht, in their yard next to a row of grapevines at Kiepersol Estates in Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ALMOST ITALY: The villa section of the Montaluce Winery and Estates in Dahlonega, Ga., north of Atlanta.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); WINERIES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); WINE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



99 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: New Claims for Jobless Benefits Rise Unexpectedly After 3 Weeks of Decline

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The number of newly laid-off workers seeking unemployment benefits jumped unexpectedly last week, the government said Thursday, reversing three weeks of declines.
 The Labor Department reported that new applications for unemployment insurance rose to a seasonally adjusted 444,000, up 15,000 from the previous week. Economists expected claims to drop to 420,000. 
 The increase indicated that the slowing economy was taking a toll on the job market. Many economists consider claims above 400,000 to be a sign of a weak economy. Initial claims were 320,000 in the same week last year.
 The four-week moving average was 438,000, down 3,250 from the previous week. A six-year high of 457,000 was reached in late July. 
 The number of people continuing to receive unemployment benefits rose 6,000, to 3.44 million for the week ended Aug. 23. That number does not include people who have exhausted their regular benefits and have requested extended assistance under an emergency program.
 Separately, the Labor Department said that productivity, the amount of output for every hour of work, rose at a 4.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, a full percentage point higher than economists expected.
 Labor costs fell 0.5 percent, the department said. The combination of higher productivity with lower costs should help contain inflation and give the Federal Reserve some breathing room on credit policy.
 Caught between slowing growth and rising prices, the Fed is expected to leave a key interest rate alone at 2 percent when it meets next, on Sept. 16.
 Retail sales were mixed, with many stores reporting sluggish back-to-school sales, though sales at Wal-Mart Stores came in better than analysts had expected.
 Economists attributed some of the increase in Thursday's jobless claims to an effort by the Labor Department to notify individuals about the availability of extended benefits, which Congress approved in June.
 Several economists have said the distortions from that program have probably faded. A Labor Department analyst also said the figures did not include any impact from Hurricane Gustav.
 The unexpected jump could foreshadow more rough news for the job market on Friday, when the Labor Department reports monthly unemployment numbers. Economists expect the department to say that employers eliminated 75,000 jobs in August, which would be the eighth consecutive month of job cuts.
 The department is also expected to report that the unemployment rate rose to 5.8 percent, from 5.7 percent in July.
 Separately, a private research group said Thursday that the service sector grew unexpectedly in August for the first time in three months as new orders improved and inflation moderated.
 The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing executives, said the services sector index rose to 50.6 in August, from 49.2 in July, exceeding the forecast of 50, the average estimate of Wall Street economists surveyed by Thomson Financial/IFR.
 A reading below 50 signals contraction, while a reading above 50 indicates growth.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for 4 week average. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); NEW ORDERS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RETAIL SALES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



100 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Angolans Heading to Polls For First Vote in 16 Years

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
More than eight million people -- nearly half of the population -- have registered to vote in war-ravaged Angola, a country with an abundance of oil, diamonds and grinding poverty that is holding its first election in 16 years on Friday.
 The last election, in 1992, degenerated into another decade of the civil war that uprooted millions of Angolans. In contrast, Friday's legislative vote follows six years of peace and is expected to go fairly smoothly. 
 Jardo Muekalia, representative for electoral issues in the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, the rebel movement turned opposition party, said the campaign had been an imperfect but positive development in Angola's fratricidal history. 
 ''Democracy is a process, not a destination, and this is part of that process,'' Mr. Muekalia said.
 Western diplomats and election observers are heralding Friday's vote as a potentially important step toward democracy. But civic and human rights groups, as well as opposition officials, contend that the governing party, the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, known as the MPLA, has compromised the fairness of the election by abusing its control of state resources, especially with propaganda on the national radio and television networks.
 The real test of the party's commitment to democracy is likely to come next year, when Angola is expected to elect a president, who is the dominant power center in the government. Jose Eduardo dos Santos, who has held the office for 29 years, is expected to run again.
 Unlike the violent election season in nearby Zimbabwe, where President Robert Mugabe was fighting for his political survival after 28 years in power, Mr. dos Santos's public remarks during the campaign display his confidence that his party will increase its majority in Parliament this year. 
 With Angola's economy booming, its leadership's desire for greater international legitimacy probably influenced the decision to go ahead with the long-delayed balloting and to welcome Western election observers who were shunned in Zimbabwe, analysts said. The party is campaigning on a platform of restoring peace and rebuilding the shattered country. ''We have increased the creation of jobs and economic growth,'' said Manuel Fragata de Morais, information secretary for the party in Luanda, the capital. ''And we are working very hard at a just partition of income.''
 Angola is pumping almost two million barrels of oil a day, rivaling Nigeria as Africa's largest producer. China and the United States are its biggest oil customers. It is the world's fourth largest producer of diamonds. But its bad reputation is hard to shake.
 Angola's elite has long been criticized for enriching itself at the expense of the country's impoverished citizens, a perception reflected in Angola's consistent ranking among the world's most corrupt nations. And after four decades of conflict -- first against the colonial power, Portugal, followed by civil war -- malnutrition, poverty and illiteracy are still common.
 ''These elections are very important for Angola because they want international credibility,'' said Francisco Ribeiro Telles, Portugal's ambassador to Angola, who called Friday's vote a turning point for the country. ''They want to be legitimized by the popular vote. Angola is thinking that they can play in the region an important role in economic and political fields.''
 And, indeed, Angola seems to be getting some recognition. The American ambassador to Angola, Dan Mozena, issued a statement last week thanking the government for inviting the United States to observe its election, which he said was expected to be ''peaceful and credible.''
 Luisa Morgantini, who leads the European Union's mission of 120 election observers, offered a generally positive assessment. ''There is room for many political parties to run for election,'' she said. ''They can make their own propaganda freely and their own campaigns.''
 Researchers and economists are also giving the government some credit for reducing inflation in one of the world's fastest-growing economies, and for rebuilding roads and removing land mines so that more than three million people displaced by war could go home. In recent years, China has provided billions of dollars in concessionary, oil-backed loans that have fueled a construction boom in schools, hospitals, roads, bridges and other infrastructure.
 ''They want to be treated as a stable, high-growth, emerging economy, not as a nasty, oil-rich place that steals large sums of money and represses its people,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 Some critics of the government worry that it is getting too much credit. Human Rights Watch issued a report last month saying that the intimidation of opposition parties and journalists and sporadic assaults by MPLA supporters in rural areas against Unita members, among other factors, threatened prospects for a free and fair vote. 
 And Fernando Macedo, president of the Association for Justice, Peace and Democracy, an Angolan civic group, said he worried that Western countries cared more about whether Angola was stable enough to keep the oil flowing than whether it became a real democracy, which he said required much more than an uneventful day of voting.
 The governing party has violated laws requiring equal access to the state media, which control what information people in rural areas receive, he said. He said he had seen bicycles, televisions and radios handed out at MPLA political rallies shown on television. The election observers must witness the problems as well as the progress, he said.
 ''There are people here who want democracy, the rule of law and a government that is accountable to the people,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A dove symbolizing peace recently in Luanda, Angola. The nation has had six years without war.
 Jose Eduardo dos Santos, Angola's president for 29 years, is expected to run again. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANLUIGI GUERCIA/AGENCE FRENCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (99%); ZIMBABWE (93%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



101 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Bear Returns to Wall St. As Major Indexes Plunge

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 344.65 points on Thursday on a confluence of poor news about the economy, although investors could not pin the drop on any overriding reason.
Reports showed that retail sales were weak last month, just as more Americans filed for unemployment benefits. Anxiety lingered about a global slowdown. Fears of another financial crisis refused to go away.
None of the news came as a shock to Wall Street. So what pushed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 3 percent, its worst daily performance in three months? 
''Boy, it's hard to say,'' Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman, said after the market's close. ''All of us were scratching our heads. Why today?''
Explanations were proffered, but rarely proved. Speculation ran rampant that some major hedge funds were rapidly selling assets; Atticus Capital, a $14 billion hedge fund based in New York, was forced to issue a statement denying that it was shutting down.
S.& P. cut the credit ratings of two prominent regional banks, National City and First Horizon National, on concerns about credit and losses related to subprime mortgages.
Bill Gross, the head of Pacific Investment Management, said banks were at risk of a coming ''financial tsunami.''
The Labor Department reported that the number of Americans who filed initial claims for unemployment benefits last week rose to 444,000, near a five-year high. And many retailers said that sales were weak in August, as consumers opted to shop at discount stores. The reports suggested that profits at many American retailers would continue to fall even as gas prices came down.
By the end of the session, the S.& P. 500, the broadest measure of the American stock market, had sunk back into a bear market, as had the Dow and the Nasdaq composite index. The S.& P. 500 fell 38.15 points, to 1,236.83.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 3 percent, to 11,188.23.
The Nasdaq composite index declined 3.2 percent, or 74.69 points, to 2,259.04.
The only certainty that arose from Thursday's painful session seemed to be that the stock market is in a fragile state, and it's likely to stay that way.
''If you don't like the moves in the market, just give it a half hour,'' Mr. Peta said. ''That seems to have been the rule of the summer.''
Wall Street is coming off a choppy few weeks, as lighter trading volume in August contributed to a fitful run of big gains followed by big losses. An index of market volatility spiked on Thursday by more than 12 percent to its highest level since July.
''It's like the markets can't really be happy one way or the other,'' said Ryan Larson, a trader at Voyageur Asset Management.
He noted that the recent declines in oil prices, which dropped $1.46 on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Thursday to settle at $107.89 a barrel, had done little to reassure investors.
''When oil was $145, everyone screamed inflation. At $105, everyone is screaming, 'Where is the demand?' '' he said. ''The picture that is starting to develop is that people are worried that the global economic slowdown is beginning to pick up steam.''
Energy stocks plummeted on the decline in oil, which soured the mood of investors on refineries and commodity companies. Exxon Mobil shares declined 2.4 percent, to $76.14, and shares of Chevron were off 3.5 percent, to $81.22.
Retailers suffered, too. Abercrombie & Fitch shares lost 6.8 percent, to close regular trading at $50.99, and shares of Target fell 2.2 percent, to $53.83.
''Lower oil prices were going to help this consumer stand up,'' Mr. Larson said. ''It's not the case.''
Investors will now turn their attention to employment market data that will be released on Friday by the Labor Department, which will report the unemployment rate for August and estimate how many jobs were lost during the month.
Economists expect the country to have lost another 70,000 jobs last month; a showing worse than that would be an ominous sign for the economy's health for the rest of the year.
Other economic data released on Thursday was more positive. Productivity, the amount of output for every hour of work, was revised up to a 4.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter, a full percentage point higher than economists had expected.
A separate private report showed that activity in the services sector grew slightly in August after contracting for months. The nonmanufacturing index of the Institute for Supply Management rose to 50.6 in August, from 49.5 in July, on a scale where readings above 50 indicate growth.
Bond interest rates were lower Thursday, with the 10-year Treasury note at 3.62 percent, down from 3.7 percent late Wednesday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 21/32, to 103 4/32.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange watched as the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 344.65 points on Thursday and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph.
Tax-Exempt Yields
Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Chart details line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (56%); PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (57%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



102 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Mayor Pleads Guilty and Resigns

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Kwame M. Kilpatrick, the charismatic mayor of Detroit who has been embroiled in legal problems stemming from a sex scandal since the beginning of the year, pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice and resigned his office Thursday morning as part of a deal with prosecutors. 
 He agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of obstruction of justice and to plead no contest to a felony count of assault on a police officer; to pay restitution to the city of $1 million; to surrender his law license, forfeit his state pension to the city and be barred from elective office for five years; and to serve 120 days in the Wayne County jail, followed by five years' probation. The other charges were dismissed. The judge in the obstruction case scheduled a formal sentencing hearing for Oct. 28.
 Mr. Kilpatrick ''understands fully the agreement and agrees to be bound by it, judge,'' a lawyer for Mr. Kilpatrick, Gerald Evelyn, told Wayne County Circuit Court Judge David A. Groner. 
 Judge Groner asked Mr. Kilpatrick, ''Is this something you are ready to do today?'' He added, ''Do you have any questions?'' 
 ''I have no questions about what's going on today,'' Mr. Kilpatrick responded. Later, referring to his guilty plea, he said, ''I lied under oath.''
 Mr. Kilpatrick had been facing a total of 10 felony charges in two criminal cases that involved allegations of perjury and assault. Despite being under pressure to step down for months, Mr. Kilpatrick, 38, clung to his office, even telling residents in a live television appearance, ''I will never quit on you. Ever.''
 His refusal to resign delighted a certain segment of this city's mostly poor, mostly black population, who felt pride in Mr. Kilpatrick's rise from the Detroit public schools to the mayor's mansion. But others here found Mr. Kilpatrick arrogant and stubborn. Some of his most loyal supporters turned on him in recent weeks, angered to see Detroit dragged through a long and tawdry affair that distracted the region from more pressing matters in a time of serious economic trouble in Michigan.
 In contrast to his recent court appearances, in which he seemed defiant and jovial, Mr. Kilpatrick, a former college football star, walked into the small courtroom where he took the plea looking dejected. He hugged his lawyers and seemed to be fighting back his emotions.
 As he answered questions from the judge, however, he smiled occasionally and joked. 
 The president of the Detroit City Council, Kenneth V. Cockrel Jr., will take over as mayor. Mr. Cockrel's late father was a prominent political figure in Detroit, and his stepmother, Sheila M. Cockrel, is also a member of the council.
 It was not immediately clear exactly when Mr. Kilpatrick will cease to be mayor. His resignation letter says it is effective Sept. 18, but the city charter calls for immediate removal from office when an elected official is convicted of a felony. 
 News outlets in Detroit reported that Mr. Kilpatrick would speak to the city on television at 7 o'clock Thursday evening.
 Mr. Kilpatrick's lawyers tried unsuccessfully in recent days to negotiate plea agreements that would not involve jail time, but prosecutors were adamant. ''You have to have some consequences to your actions -- you don't just lose your job and go on your way,'' the Wayne County prosecutor, Kym L. Worthy, said on Thursday. 
 The plea agreements that were finally reached includes two sentences of 120 days in jail, one for the obstruction charges and one for the assault charge, but they are to be served at the same time. 
 Prosecutors agreed to sentences that were considerably lighter than Mr. Kilpatrick could have expected if convicted at trial. ''I made a decision to get this done and move this region forward,'' Ms. Worthy said.
 Despite the legal closure for Mr. Kilpatrick, many people in Detroit see his departure as the beginning of a new chapter of challenges for the city. The council does not have a reputation for working well together, and the F.B.I. is investigating whether illegal payments were made in one of its recent multi-million dollar contract approvals.
 How the city will be governed in the immediate future is an open question. ''It will be a long time before anyone can say we recovered from this crisis and are fully back on track,'' said John R. Chamberlin, a professor at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan. ''It will be measured in months and years, not weeks.''
 Mr. Kilpatrick's fall from power calls into question the futures in office of about 100 city officials and aides who were directly appointed by Mr. Kilpatrick. Many are likely to resign or be replaced by the new mayor. The police chief, Ella Bully-Cummings, who was appointed by Mr. Kilpatrick, announced her retirement on Thursday immediately after the plea deal was announced. The city government became progressively more paralyzed as the scandal surrounding Mr. Kilpatrick played out in headlines and courtrooms over the past eight months, stemming mainly from the revelation that the mayor had conducted an extramarital affair with an aide and from his efforts to keep the affair secret.
 He was accused of forcing three police officers out of their jobs, and then, when they sued the city over their dismissal, of using $8.4 million in public funds to, in effect, buy their silence, by settling the suit on favorable terms before the affair could be disclosed in court testimony.
 The affair became public anyway, when The Detroit Free Press published steamy text messages sent from a city-owned pager that detailed much of the romance between Mr. Kilpatrick and the aide, Christine Beatty, his chief of staff. The messages and the affair contradicted testimony that both Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Beatty had given under oath last year.
 Mr. Kilpatrick, a two-term mayor who had brimmed with promise early in his career, was charged with eight felonies including perjury and misconduct in office. Ms. Beatty, who was also charged with felony counts, resigned in January.
 Earlier this month, the Michigan attorney general, Mike Cox, charged Mr. Kilpatrick with two more felony counts, this time of assault against police officers. According to Mr. Cox, the mayor interfered with the officers, shouting and shoving, as they tried to serve a subpoena on one of his friends.
 The Detroit City Council, which has no power to remove the mayor, voted to censure him and to request his resignation; in May, after Mr. Kilpatrick refused, the council asked Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, who does have that power, to intervene. Governor Granholm scheduled a hearing on the issue that began on Wednesday after court challenges by Mr. Kilpatrick's lawyers failed to block it.
 Both Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Granholm are Democrats, as are all the members of the city council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (93%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); FELONIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SCANDALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); JUDGES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); PROBATION (77%); WITNESSES (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (70%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



103 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words

PERSON: Michael Hammer 

HEADLINE: Michael Hammer, 60, Business Writer

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Michael Hammer, the co-author of a best-selling book, ''Reengineering the Corporation,'' which some business experts say significantly influenced the way many corporations have reorganized their workplaces by focusing on the expertise of their employees, died Wednesday in Boston. He was 60 and lived in Newton, Mass.
The cause was complications of a brain hemorrhage, said Joseph Tischler, a family friend. 
Dr. Hammer wrote the book with James Champy; after it was published by Harper Business in 1993, it was on The New York Times nonfiction paperback best-seller list for 41 weeks. Its influence led to Dr. Hammer's inclusion, in 1996, on Time magazine's list of ''America's 25 Most Influential People.''
''Reengineering the Corporation'' promoted the idea of simplifying and reorganizing business departments by having the workers break down their activities into logical, bite-size pieces, then take a ''clean sheet'' approach to reassembling their work for greater efficiency and productivity.
''Managers have to switch from supervisory roles to acting as facilitators, as enablers, and as people whose jobs are the development of people and their skills so that those people will be able to perform value-adding processes themselves,'' the book said. At the same time, it said, ''those empowered to make the changes at lower levels must know they have the support of top management, or change won't occur.''
By challenging traditional assumptions about the division of labor, Dr. Hammer often said, the book called for ''the undoing of the Industrial Revolution.''
Stephen P. Kaufman, a senior lecturer at the Harvard Business School, said in an interview Thursday that after the book's release, ''there was a large flurry of re-engineering projects, led both by consulting firms that would teach the process to companies and by the companies themselves.'' Mr. Kaufman added that he ''would not quite call it a revolution, but a very useful tool in the tool bag of effective managers.''
Time magazine saw it differently -- and laced with an element of controversy.
In its 1996 profile of Dr. Hammer, it said his book ''set in motion a revolution the likes of which hadn't been seen since Henry Ford introduced the assembly line. Like most revolutions, this one has been extremely messy. Such huge firms as Procter & Gamble, Xerox and American Standard have successfully taken a Hammer to their structures.''
''At the same time,'' the profile continued, ''re-engineering has become synonymous with less elegant forms of reorganization, notably downsizing, in which C.E.O.'s fire workers wholesale to make a company more 'efficient.' ''
Dr. Hammer and Mr. Champy were deeply concerned about the misuse of their premise.
''It is astonishing to me the extent to which the term re-engineering has been hijacked, misappropriated and misunderstood,'' Dr. Hammer told Time, saying that ideally, re-engineering should promote greater production and create more jobs.
Michael Martin Hammer was born in Annapolis, Md., on April 13, 1948, the only child of Henry and Helen Hammer, who had arrived from Poland after surviving the Nazi concentration camps. Henry Hammer was a cantor.
Dr. Hammer earned his bachelor's degree in math in 1968, a master's degree in electrical engineering in 1970, and a doctorate in computer science in 1973, all at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After graduating, he taught computer science at M.I.T.
In 1987, he became a management consultant, work that started his thinking and research for ''Reengineering the Corporation.'' He wrote three other books: ''The Reengineering Revolution,'' ''Beyond Reengineering,'' and ''The Agenda.'' He also wrote articles for publications including The Harvard Business Review, The Economist and The Sloan Management Review.
Dr. Hammer is survived by his wife of 35 years, the former Phyllis Thurm; three daughters, Jessie, Alison and Dana; and a son, David.
''I'm saddened and offended by the idea that companies exist to enrich their owners,'' he once wrote. ''That is the very least of their roles; they are far more worthy, more honorable, and more important than that. Without the vital creative force of business, our world would be impoverished beyond reckoning.''
Correction: September 9, 2008, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Friday about the financial writer Michael Hammer, using information from a family spokesman, misstated his middle name and misidentified his father's profession. It was Martin, not Gartner, and his father was a cantor, not a rabbi.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Hammer in 1996.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM ROGASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WRITERS (91%); BESTSELLERS (90%); ENGINEERING (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



104 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Donors' Aid to Poor Nations Declines, U.N. Reports

BYLINE: By NEIL MACFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
Aid to poor nations has slumped even as higher food and energy prices and slowing global economic growth have made such assistance more urgent, according to a report released Thursday by the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon. 
 The question of how to increase development aid will be the main theme on the sidelines of the General Assembly later this month, with scores of heads of state expected to attend a one-day conference on aid, to be held Sept. 25. 
 The United Nations report showed that aid dropped 8.4 percent in 2007, after a 4.7 percent drop in 2006. Commitments to help Africa in particular have lagged. The Group of 8 industrialized nations pledged in 2005 to donate more than $25 billion to Africa by 2010, but just $4 billion has actually been delivered.
 ''We are running out of time,'' Mr. Ban said at a news conference, adding that despite some progress, member states are not meeting their commitments. 
 Mr. Ban organized a task force to quantify the gap between aid goals for 2015, first set out in 2000 and known as the Millennium Development Goals, and what has actually been achieved. 
 The conclusions listed in the report included: 
 Just 79 percent of exports from the least developed countries are given duty-free access to developed countries, short of the goal of 97 percent. 
 Debt relief has been granted to 33 out of 41 eligible countries, canceling more than 90 percent of their external debt. Still, in 2006, 52 countries spent more paying off debts than on public health, and 10 devoted more to debt payments than to education. 
 The distribution of medicine to combat H.I.V./AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis has improved, but the supply of affordable drugs remains inadequate. 
 Huge progress has been made in getting cellphones to developing countries, with signals now available in more than three-quarters of the developing world. But Internet access and other technology lags. 
 The United Nations wants the richest 22 countries to commit to donating 0.7 percent of their overall national income to aid, but the only countries that have done that are Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. Most of the aid donors hovered around 0.45 percent, the report said. The United States traditionally devotes a relatively small share of its public wealth to foreign aid.
 The Group of 8 committed at a 2005 conference in Gleneagles, Scotland, to increase aid by $50 billion, but the nations are still $31.4 billion short, the report said. 
 The Millennium Development Goals were regarded as unrealistic targets when they were first introduced, but in the ensuing eight years they have become the framework by which both developing and developed nations set their priorities on aid. 
 Development experts credit the goals with helping to broaden access to primary education and health care. But some critics argue that the United Nations has emphasized the need for more money rather than the need to allocate existing resources more efficiently.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a 2007 photo, Momodou Ba, top, and Boubacar Ba, who was ill with malaria, took a break from their jobs processing gold in Tenkoto, Senegal. Promises of aid to Africa have not been kept. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA BLACKWELL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); MALARIA (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%); TUBERCULOSIS (63%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (93%); NORWAY (79%); SENEGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SCOTLAND (73%); NETHERLANDS (66%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



105 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Resentment Strategy

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Can the super-rich former governor of Massachusetts -- the son of a Fortune 500 C.E.O. who made a vast fortune in the leveraged-buyout business -- really keep a straight face while denouncing ''Eastern elites''?
 Can the former mayor of New York City, a man who, as USA Today put it, ''marched in gay pride parades, dressed up in drag and lived temporarily with a gay couple and their Shih Tzu'' -- that was between his second and third marriages -- really get away with saying that Barack Obama doesn't think small towns are sufficiently ''cosmopolitan''? 
 Can the vice-presidential candidate of a party that has controlled the White House, Congress or both for 26 of the past 28 years, a party that, Borg-like, assimilated much of the D.C. lobbying industry into itself -- until Congress changed hands, high-paying lobbying jobs were reserved for loyal Republicans -- really portray herself as running against the ''Washington elite''?
 Yes, they can.
 On Tuesday, He Who Must Not Be Named -- Mitt Romney mentioned him just once, Rudy Giuliani and Sarah Palin not at all -- gave a video address to the Republican National Convention. John McCain, promised President Bush, would stand up to the ''angry left.'' That's no doubt true. But don't be fooled either by Mr. McCain's long-ago reputation as a maverick or by Ms. Palin's appealing persona: the Republican Party, now more than ever, is firmly in the hands of the angry right, which has always been much bigger, much more influential and much angrier than its counterpart on the other side. 
 What's the source of all that anger?
 Some of it, of course, is driven by cultural and religious conflict: fundamentalist Christians are sincerely dismayed by Roe v. Wade and evolution in the curriculum. What struck me as I watched the convention speeches, however, is how much of the anger on the right is based not on the claim that Democrats have done bad things, but on the perception -- generally based on no evidence whatsoever -- that Democrats look down their noses at regular people.
 Thus Mr. Giuliani asserted that Wasilla, Alaska, isn't ''flashy enough'' for Mr. Obama, who never said any such thing. And Ms. Palin asserted that Democrats ''look down'' on small-town mayors -- again, without any evidence. 
 What the G.O.P. is selling, in other words, is the pure politics of resentment; you're supposed to vote Republican to stick it to an elite that thinks it's better than you. Or to put it another way, the G.O.P. is still the party of Nixon.
 One of the key insights in ''Nixonland,'' the new book by the historian Rick Perlstein, is that Nixon's political strategy throughout his career was inspired by his college experience, in which he got himself elected student body president by exploiting his classmates' resentment against the Franklins, the school's elite social club. There's a direct line from that student election to Spiro Agnew's attacks on the ''nattering nabobs of negativism'' as ''an effete corps of impudent snobs,'' and from there to the peculiar cult of personality that not long ago surrounded George W. Bush -- a cult that celebrated his anti-intellectualism and made much of the supposed fact that the ''misunderestimated'' C-average student had proved himself smarter than all the fancy-pants experts. 
 And when Mr. Bush turned out not to be that smart after all, and his presidency crashed and burned, the angry right -- the raging rajas of resentment? -- became, if anything, even angrier. Humiliation will do that.
 Can Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin really ride Nixonian resentment into an upset election victory in what should be an overwhelmingly Democratic year? The answer is a definite maybe.
 By selecting Barack Obama as their nominee, the Democrats may have given Republicans an opening: the very qualities that inspire many fervent Obama supporters -- the candidate's high-flown eloquence, his coolness factor -- have also laid him open to a Nixonian backlash. Unlike many observers, I wasn't surprised at the effectiveness of the McCain ''celebrity'' ad. It didn't make much sense intellectually, but it skillfully exploited the resentment some voters feel toward Mr. Obama's star quality. 
 That said, the experience of the years since 2000 -- the memory of what happened to working Americans when faux-populist Republicans controlled the government -- is still fairly fresh in voters' minds. Furthermore, while Democrats' supposed contempt for ordinary people is mainly a figment of Republican imagination, the G.O.P. really is the Gramm Old Party -- it really does believe that the economy is just fine, and the fact that most Americans disagree just shows that we're a nation of whiners.
 But the Democrats can't afford to be complacent. Resentment, no matter how contrived, is a powerful force, and it's one that Republicans are very, very good at exploiting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LOBBYING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); FUNDAMENTALISM (61%); RELIGION (61%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



106 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: Bhutto Widower With Clouded Past Is Poised to Lead Pakistan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of Benazir Bhutto, is set to become president on Saturday, an accidental ascent for a man known more as a wheeler-dealer than a leader. He will start his tenure burdened by a history of corruption allegations that cloud his reputation even as they remain unproved.
 Though he has won the reluctant support of the Bush administration, which views him as a willing partner in the campaign against terrorism, Mr. Zardari will assume the presidency with what many consider untested governing skills as a tough Taliban insurgency threatens the very fabric of Pakistan, a nuclear-armed state of 165 million people.
 It remains to be seen how forcefully he will act against militants in the face of Pakistani public opposition to American pressure. Nor is it clear how much influence he exerts over the still powerful military and the nation's premier spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence. 
 The editor in chief of the Daily Times, Najam Sethi, once an opponent and now a supporter of Mr. Zardari, said the elevation of Mr. Zardari would suit the Americans. Mr. Zardari, he said, ''will learn on the job.'' And indeed, Mr. Zardari, 53, has shown canny political skills as he has moved in the last two weeks to outmaneuver his former coalition partner, Nawaz Sharif, who served twice as prime minister. 
 But with the economy in a downward spiral and foreign exchange reserves perilously low, Mr. Zardari's reputation for using political perches to benefit himself and his friends has left many here and in Washington worried about how he will restore economic confidence.
 There are concerns about the oversight of a $15 billion package of nonmilitary aid proposed by the Democratic vice presidential nominee, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, and backed by the Bush administration. 
 Mr. Zardari declined to be interviewed for this article. Pakistan's information minister, Sherry Rehman, said it was too ''sensitive'' for him to talk before the election.
 Pakistan has only $6 billion in foreign exchange reserves, disappearing at the rate of close to $2 billion a month to pay for oil and food. Several prominent economists and businessmen said much investor nervousness stemmed from mistrust of Mr. Zardari, who was investment minister in Ms. Bhutto's government when it was accused of demanding illicit payments in return for deals that exceeded the accepted levels of corruption in Pakistan.
 Fiscal Ability Questioned
 Two recent decisions by Mr. Zardari showed a disregard for Pakistan's alarming deficits, they said, speaking anonymously because they did not want to publicly criticize the next president. 
 In April, Mr. Zardari told Ishaq Dar, the finance minister at the time and a member of Mr. Sharif's party, which has since broken with Mr. Zardari, that he wanted the price the government paid farmers for wheat to be raised substantially as a way of rewarding an important constituency in Punjab Province, the nation's most populous, according to two participants in the discussion with Mr. Zardari. The government would then have to heavily subsidize the cost of wheat to the consumer.
 When Mr. Dar asked Mr. Zardari how he thought the government would pay for the subsidy, Mr. Zardari replied, ''Print the notes,'' according to the two participants, a government official and an associate of Mr. Zardari's. In an effort to solve the impasse over the subsidy, it was suggested that Mr. Zardari form a committee of experts. 
 '' 'I am the expert,' '' Mr. Zardari said, according to his associate. 
 Farahnaz Ispahani, a spokeswoman for Mr. Zardari's party, denied the account.
 The two officials described another episode in May as the budget was being prepared. Mr. Zardari decided to scrap a proposed capital gains tax after a visit from a group of influential stockbrokers from the Karachi stock exchange, they said. The revenue from the capital gains tax, and from an income tax proposal on the rich, would have paid for an income support program for the poorest Pakistanis, they said. More than half of Pakistanis live on less than $2 a day, according to the World Bank.
 In Mr. Zardari's defense, the finance minister, Naveed Qamar, said that political stability would be restored to Pakistan once Mr. Zardari was president, and that the unsettled economy would benefit from the new political order. 
 Others were not so sure. 
 ''Zardari will wield unprecedented power for a civilian president,'' said Maleeha Lodhi, who was appointed as Pakistan's ambassador to the United States by Ms. Bhutto and then by Gen. Pervez Musharraf when he was Pakistan's leader. ''But he may lack authority in view of his checkered and controversial past.''
 Indeed, Mr. Zardari, who is expected to be chosen in Saturday's election by the Parliament and four provisional assemblies, is the unintended beneficiary of sweeping powers accumulated by President Musharraf, including the right to dismiss the army chief of staff and dissolve Parliament.
 Mr. Zardari will now become the civilian official Washington relies on as it tries to persuade Pakistan to take a stronger stance against militants who are using the northern tribal areas as a sanctuary to attack American and NATO forces in Afghanistan. Despite their reservations, American officials prefer him to Mr. Sharif because they believe that Mr. Zardari's Pakistan Peoples Party, more secular than Mr. Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League-N, will be more likely to confront militants.
 Mr. Zardari has displayed a sudden willingness to take on the Taliban, saying last week that he would ban them and freeze their assets, a starting point strongly favored by the State Department, though it would have limited practical impact.
 ''Zardari is a businessman,'' said a Western diplomat. ''He says to himself: 'I know I need American support. What do they want? They want this,' '' meaning a stance against the Taliban. 
 Little Sway With Military
 But as Mr. Zardari moved to the fore, some efforts to please Washington have exposed his uneasy relationship with the military, and Inter-Services Intelligence, the powerful spy agency he accused of assassinating his wife last December. 
 An effort to control the agency and impress the Bush administration failed in July. Washington has said that the agency is involved in sabotaging American interests by supporting the Taliban in the tribal region. Mr. Zardari and an Interior Ministry official directed that the agency report to the Interior Ministry; the military swiftly ordered that the notice be retracted. 
 ''His first attempt to get control of the army and ISI was a total failure that showed a naivete about how the army and the ISI work,'' said Bruce Riedel, a member of the National Security Council in the Clinton administration who now advises the Obama campaign on Pakistan. 
 In five months as head of the governing coalition that collapsed after pushing Mr. Musharraf from power, Mr. Zardari filled important government posts with people he knew from jail and exile. He refused to reinstate the chief justice of the Supreme Court, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, whom President Musharraf removed. His opponents charge that Mr. Zardari feared that Mr. Chaudhry might have reversed an amnesty that allowed Mr. Zardari's corruption cases to be dropped. 
 Mr. Zardari was in jail from 1990 to 1993 after Ms. Bhutto's first term and from 1996 to 2004 after her second term. He maintains that the corruption charges, and a murder charge, were politically motivated by forces trying to minimize his influence, and that he refused offers for early release from prison.
 In Britain Mr. Zardari faced a civil casebrought by the Pakistani government charging that he had paid for a country manor with ill-gotten gains. In order to win a delay in the British courts, Mr. Zardari filed affidavits in early 2006 from two doctors in New York saying he was mentally unable to assist his lawyers.
 Mr. Zardari, then living at the Helmsley Carlton apartment block on 61st Street and Madison Avenue, who friends said appeared to be in good spirits, suffered from dementia, major depressive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder, according to affidavits first reported by The Financial Times.
 Acquittal and Amnesty
 Pakistan's high commissioner in London, Wajid Shamsul Hasan, who was recently appointed by Mr. Zardari and is a longtime friend, said Mr. Zardari was now healthy. Mr. Zardari was one of more than a dozen people accused of a conspiracy in 1996 to kill Ms. Bhutto's brother, a political opponent of Mr. Zardari and Ms. Bhutto. The high court in Sindh Province, Mr. Zardari's political base, acquitted him in the murder case in April.
 Last week, a Swiss prosecutor dismissed a case in which Mr. Zardari and Ms. Bhutto were found guilty in 2003 on money laundering charges involving illegal commissions they had received from two Swiss companies, Cotecna and Societe Generale de Surveillance. The court ordered them to return $12 million to the Pakistani government.
 The Pakistani government dropped the charges this year, after Mr. Zardari and Ms. Bhutto had been offered an amnesty on their corruption charges. The Swiss authorities said that they could no longer pursue the case and that they would release $60 million of Mr. Zardari's funds. 
 After the announcement in Geneva, Mr. Zardari told a Pakistani journalist, according to an account in the daily newspaper The News, that the original conviction in 2003 was the result of a bribe paid to the magistrate by the Pakistani government.
 A report on private banking and money laundering in the United States, done for the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations in 1999, cited allegations that some of Mr. Zardari's Citibank accounts were used to ''disguise $10 million in kickbacks for a gold importing contract in Pakistan.'' The report said that Mr. Zardari had accumulated $40 million in Citibank accounts. He denied the charges, and the head of the gold company identified in the report denied he had paid bribes.
 Mr. Zardari's position as head of state will be a giant leap from the days when he accompanied Ms. Bhutto on her official trips. In his autobiography, a former leader of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew, wrote that he found Mr. Zardari ''a likable rogue'' who tried to impress with chatter about his real estate and export deals. 
 Increasingly worried about his personal security, Mr. Zardari is now living at the prime minister's house in Islamabad, the residence that he and Ms. Bhutto had designed during her tenure. Out back is the polo field built to indulge his passion for horses.
 After the vote on Saturday, he will live in the presidential palace, a white marble edifice in the center of the capital, designed by Edward Durell Stone, the American architect of the Kennedy Center in Washington. 
 There, behind the tall colonnades and long corridors, according to a close associate, he will have achieved three things he most covets.
 As president he will have, according to the Constitution, immunity from prosecution. He will enjoy top-notch security. And he will be provided with the rites of protocol that will allow him to appear on the world stage as a leader in his own right, and not just as the spouse of one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, is expected to become president of Pakistan on Saturday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AAMIR QURESHI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Ms. Bhutto with her children in 1997 at the Central Prison in Karachi, before visiting Mr. Zardari, who was jailed there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZAHID HUSSEIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TALIBAN (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TERRORISM (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (93%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (91%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); JOE BIDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



107 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2262 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
CHENEY DELIVERS PLEDGE
Of Assistance for Georgia
Vice President Dick Cheney flew to Georgia to deliver a forceful American pledge to rebuild the country and its economy, to preserve its sovereignty and its territory and to bring it into the NATO alliance in defiance of Russia. The visit came a day after the United States pledged $1 billion in relief and economic assistance to help Georgia recover from its defeat by Russia's armed forces. PAGE A8
U.S. OFFERS STORM AID TO CUBA
The United States State Department said that it had offered humanitarian aid to Cuban victims of Hurricane Gustav, provided that it went through relief organizations and not the government of President Raul Castro. The offer calls for an initial $100,000 in emergency aid and sending disaster experts to assess damage. Whether Cuba will accept such assistance from Washington remains to be seen. PAGE A8 
WITH RENOWN COMES HEADACHES
Designation as a Unesco World Heritage site has revived a played-out silver mine in tiny Omori, Japan. But the resulting thousands of tourists have at times overwhelmed the mostly elderly residents. The designation is likely to deepen the debate over whether the World Heritage label is being diluted through an ever-growing list of locations and whether inclusion can sometimes do more harm than good. PAGE A10
SYRIA SAYS TALKS POSTPONED
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria said that his country had provided Turkish mediators with specific proposals for peace with Israel, but that the latest round of indirect negotiations between the states had been postponed and that the outcome would depend on who becomes Israel's next prime minister. Mr. Assad did not specify the proposals he gave to the Turkish mediators. PAGE A14
ANGOLA'S FIRST ELECTION SINCE '92
Angola is holding its first election in 16 years, with results expected to be much better than the election in 1992, which degenerated into a decade of civil war. Western diplomats and election observers are heralding the vote as a potentially important step toward democracy. But critics have said that the governing party has compromised the fairness of the election by abusing its control of state resources. PAGE A6
CALLS FOR INDIAN PREMIER TO RESIGN
Indian opposition parties are once again calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, saying that a secret letter from the State Department to Congress, made public on Tuesday, shows he lied about a controversial deal that would allow India to buy nuclear fuel and technology on the world market to generate nuclear power. PAGE A14
national
COASTAL STATES ON HIGH ALERT
As Tropical Storm Hanna Nears
Officials declared states of emergency in Virginia and North Carolina and recommended evacuation from some coastal regions of South Carolina, as Tropical Storm Hanna surged toward the Atlantic Coast. The storm could escalate into a hurricane before making landfall. PAGE A19
GENEROUS GIFT TO BROAD INSTITUTE
Eli and Edythe Broad, who are giving away a multibillion-dollar fortune made in real estate and insurance, announced their biggest gift so far, a $400 million donation to the Broad Institute of M.I.T. and Harvard. The institute works to discover genetic links to major diseases and determine their molecular causes, which could lead to new ways to diagnose and prevent illnesses and develop medicines. PAGE A18
SAVED, PERHAPS, BY A LOVE AFFAIR
With less than a week to go before the scheduled execution of a man who contends his murder trial was tainted by a love affair between the judge and the prosecutor, a Texas judge ordered a hearing into the accusation and a review of the conviction. Defense lawyers argued that if the love affair occurred the condemned man did not receive a fair trial. PAGE A17
NEW ORLEANS RETURNING TO NORMAL
Evacuees from New Orleans continued to stream home after a close call with Hurricane Gustav that turned mostly into a non-event for the city, though not for coastal Louisiana: restaurants began to pull plywood boards from their windows and traffic once again flowed in the downtown streets. PAGE A19
IOWA PLANT ON THE SPOT AGAIN
PETA, the animal rights organization, secretly recorded a video last month in the slaughterhouse of a kosher meatpacking plant in Iowa and presented it to the Department of Agriculture, saying it showed inhumane practices in the killing of cattle. The plant is once again at the center of controversy after nearly 400 illegal immigrants were detained in a raid in May. PAGE A21
obituaries
MURIEL K. S. NEWMAN, 94
Her donation of artworks by the likes of Jackson Pollock and Alexander Calder bolstered the Metropolitan Museum of Art's standing as an exhibitor of modern art. PAGE B6
BILL MELENDEZ, 91
An Emmy-winning animator who brought Charlie Brown and the ''Peanuts'' gang to life, and who helped keep them alive after the death of their creator, Charles M. Schulz. PAGE B6
metro
CONGRESSMAN WHO BOWED OUT
Decides to Bow Back In
Representative Robert E. Andrews of New Jersey declined a re-election bid last spring to mount a challenge to Senator Frank R. Lautenberg in the Democratic primary. Mr. Lautenberg trounced him. Now Mr. Andrews has decided he wants to hold onto his House seat after all. And his wife, who won a primary to replace him, gave word that she is having second thoughts, too. PAGE B1
BILL WOULD SOFTEN TERM LIMITS
City Councilman G. Oliver Koppell said that he would introduce legislation ''within weeks'' that would allow the city's elected officials to serve three full terms instead of the current two. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has publicly flirted with changing the limits through the Council, so that he can seek a third four-year term next year. But Mr. Koppell said he had not coordinated his efforts with the mayor's office. PAGE B4
SURVIVING A FAILING GRADE
Almost a year after New York City's public schools received their first report cards with A through F grades and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned of consequences for those with low marks, the majority of the principals who ran the 52 schools labeled as failing remain in place. ''I don't think that we would argue or anyone would argue that merely getting an 'F' on a report card is reason to lose your job,'' a school official said. PAGE B3
SPORTS
FOR METS AND PELFREY,
The Risk Isn't Optional
According to the prevailing theory in baseball, the more innings that Mets pitcher Mike Pelfrey throws this year, the more he is at risk for injury next year. But given the situation with the pitching staff, and the (dare anyone say it?) likelihood of playoff games as well, there really isn't that much choice. PAGE D1
JETS LOOK BACK, THINK FORWARD
As the Jets head to South Florida to take on the Miami Dolphins on Sunday, some thoughts drift back almost 40 years, when another Jets team with a brash quarterback won the most significant game in the franchise's history. The hope in Jets fans minds is that this is the start of another magical season. PAGE D7
A FOCUS ON QUALITY
Ken Solomon, the chairman and chief executive of the Tennis Channel, had a grandfather who was a founder of the ''21'' Club. Solomon sees parallels between ''21'' and the Tennis Channel in how to create a well-defined brand and by purchasing quality products -- whether it is Cristal Champagne or French Open rights. PAGE D2
BUSINESS
OPEC LEFT IN QUANDARY
By Falling Oil Prices
Declining oil prices have been welcome news for consumers, but not so welcome for OPEC, whose leaders meet in Vienna next week. There is debate within the group as to what should constitute a minimum price, with $100 a barrel a dividing line, and over whether cutting production would bolster prices or jeopardize exports as the global economy slows. PAGE C1
BP REACHES RUSSIAN ACCORD
BP and its Russian partners reached agreement after months of threats and counterthreats, with BP agreeing to every major demand from the partners. In return, BP gets to continue oil exploration and production in the large oil fields in Siberia. Russian authorities said the deal proved that Western investments in Russia were secure, despite growing concern over this country's new assertiveness since the war with Georgia. PAGE C6
SPORTS TO ENTER THE VIRTUAL REALM
ESPN is looking to extend its domain into virtual worlds by using video game graphics to supplement analysis by real-life news anchors. The new technology would make it possible to show, for example, what would have happened had Peyton Manning thrown right instead of left. The debut will be Sunday on ESPN's popular ''NFL Countdown'' program. (Would a virtual Bill Belichick be personable?) PAGE C1
STUDENT LENDER ACCUSED
The attorney general of New York is preparing to sue a student loan company, Goal Financial, accusing it of having broken state and federal laws by luring borrowers with iPods, cash and other gifts and misleading consumers about loan terms and benefits, a senior official in the office said. PAGE C5
FLEEING THE SCEPTRED ISLE
In the past week, three British companies looking to cut their tax bills have said they are moving their headquarters abroad, and at least two others might follow. None of it is good news in Britain, a country with an economy already on the brink of recession and a record budget deficit, and the moves have started discussions about the competitiveness of the country's tax system. PAGE C7
SWAPPING YUAN FOR DOLLARS
China's central bank owns roughly $1 trillion worth of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that have been sharply declining in value when converted from dollars into the strong yuan. It needs an infusion of capital, and has begun discussions with the finance ministry on how to achieve it. But that could lead to a weakened yuan, and heightened trade tensions with the United States. PAGE C1
Europe's Key Rates Unchanged C4
Weekend
A STORY, LONG IN THE TOOTH,
Gets Yet Another Incarnation
Would you like your synthetic O negative cocktail warmed in the microwave? ''True Blood,'' a new series premiering on HBO, depicts a world in which synthetic blood has become easily manufactured, allowing vampires to live among us openly, their blood lust has been satisfied. They have lobbyists, support groups, and even a constitutional amendment. Life, liberty and the pursuit of the jugular? Page E1
ZOMBIE JOE BRINGS BACK POE
Poe is on the New York stage carried on shuffling feet, as Zombie Joe's Underground Theater Group performs ''Masque of the Red Death,'' ''The Bells'' and ''A Tell-Tale Heart.'' The players huddle together like one organism with several mouths as members take a turn narrating. While the spare production is hindered by the small stage at St. Luke's theater, the material still resonates, Andy Webster writes. Page E5
VETERANS OF A BARBARIC SPORT HEAL
It's time for some good news for the dogs of ''Bad News Kennels,'' the dog-fighting ring of Michael Vick, former star quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons. A new reality series, ''Saving the Michael Vick Dogs,'' takes these dogs through the healing process, walking them, so to speak, away from extreme trauma, abuse and fear. Page E10 ESCAPES
FINDING A SPA MASSAGE
Is Just Up the Road
The Northeast has not been known for leading the field in destination spas; the West and Florida traditionally being more natural settings. But as the spa experience has become divorced from warm weather, and as spa visits have come to allow shorter stays, more hotels and resorts within driving distance of New York City are building spas or revamping existing ones. PAGE F1
SLIGHTLY LESS GRAND
At 120 miles long, 6 to 20 miles wide and more than 800 feet deep, it's the nation's second-largest canyon, behind only that other one you've no doubt heard about. But Palo Duro, in the flat high plains of the Texas Panhandle, is a geological anomaly so improbable that many Texans still think of the place as a rumor, a bit of folklore passed down by generations of drunken cowboys. PAGE F8
Havens: Hill City, S.D. F3
Floating Homes F5
Stocking the Staples F2
Editorial
MR. MCCAIN'S TURN
By the time John McCain took the stage on Thursday night, we wondered if there would be any hint of the senator we long respected. Certainly, the convention that nominated him bore no resemblance to that John McCain. page A26
A BAD EXPERIMENT IN VOTING
The words ''Florida'' and ''Internet voting,'' taken together, should send a chill down everyone's spine. Nevertheless, Okaloosa County, Fla., is seeking permission from the state to allow members of the military to vote over the Internet in November. page A26
MANY QUESTIONS ABOUT VYTORIN
The risks and benefits of a best-selling anti-cholesterol drug remain thoroughly muddled despite a new analysis that purports to exonerate it from the worst safety concerns. For now, Vytorin should only be used as a last resort. page A26
op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
The G.O.P. is still the party of Nixon: what it's selling is the pure politics of resentment. You're supposed to vote Republican to stick it to an elite that thinks it's better than you. page A27
DAVID BROOKS
The language of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska resonated more of supermarket aisle than the megachurch pulpit. More than the men on the tickets, she embodies the spirit of the moment: impatient, fed up, tough-minded, but ironical. Even in attack, she projected the cheerfulness of someone confident about the future. page A27
HOW TO EXIT IRAQ
In an Op-Ed article, John Nagl, Colin Kahl and Shawn Brimley, three fellows of the Center for a New American Security, write that on a recent visit to Basra, Iraq, they saw the ideal model for that nation's post-American future. page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2, A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WEATHER (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); ELECTION MONITORING (61%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); AGING (52%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); RAUL CASTRO (73%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SYRIA (92%); ANGOLA (92%); INDIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TURKEY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



108 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Backs Membership In NATO For Georgia

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Michael Schwirtz contributed reporting from Tbilisi, and Ellen Barry from Moscow.

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney flew here on Thursday to deliver a forceful American pledge to rebuild Georgia and its economy, to preserve its sovereignty and its territory and to bring it into the NATO alliance in defiance of Russia.
 Mr. Cheney spent only four and a half hours in Georgia, but the visit included a strong rebuke to Russia's behavior and a highly symbolic visit to American troops unloading humanitarian supplies at the airport here within sight of an airplane factory that Russian bombs had damaged.
 He arrived a day after the United States pledged $1 billion to help Georgia recover from its defeat by Russia's armed forces, which continue to control two breakaway regions, as well as buffer zones in Georgia. 
 Standing beside President Mikheil Saakashvili, Mr. Cheney said that the United States had strongly supported Georgia since protests in 2003 ushered a democratic government to power and that it would continue to do so despite Russia's proclamations that Mr. Saakashvili's government was illegitimate.
 ''I assured the president as well of my country's strong commitment to Georgia's territorial integrity,'' Mr. Cheney said after meeting with Mr. Saakashvili, without aides, for more than an hour, twice the scheduled time. ''Georgia has that right, just as it has the right to build stronger ties to friends in Europe and across the Atlantic.''
 The Bush administration has been Georgia's most vocal supporter in its conflict with Russia, leaving diplomatic efforts to negotiate a cease-fire almost entirely to leaders from the European Union, including President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.
 In his remarks with Mr. Saakashvili, though, Mr. Cheney left little room for negotiation, denouncing what he called ''an illegitimate, unilateral attempt to change your country's borders by force that has been universally condemned by the free world.''
 Mr. Cheney reiterated previous administration statements that Russia risked its international standing, though with some of the strongest language yet.
 ''Russia's actions have cast grave doubt on Russia's intentions and on its reliability as an international partner, not just in Georgia but across this region and indeed throughout the international system,'' he said.
 It is not clear that the administration's harsh criticism has had any discernible effect on Russia's leaders, President Dmitri A. Medvedev and the man widely considered to be in charge, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin. In fact, Russian officials have largely ignored the new American aid and Mr. Cheney's trip to the region, which also included a visit to Azerbaijan on Wednesday. After leaving Georgia, Mr. Cheney flew to Ukraine.
 Defying international warnings, Russia last week recognized the independence of the breakaway regions, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and now appears to be consolidating its control over them. 
 For some, Mr. Cheney's trip recalled another foray to the region in 2006, during which the vice president accused Moscow of using oil and gas as ''tools of intimidation or blackmail.'' In that light, one expert said, Mr. Cheney's mere presence is potentially an aggravating factor. 
 ''Given Cheney's reputation in Moscow, given his rhetorical history, sending him to Georgia risks escalating the situation,'' Clifford Kupchan of the Eurasia Group, a consultancy in Washington, said of the vice president's visit. ''We're in a stage of mutual overreaction.''
 Mr. Saakashvili, for his part, welcomed the American pledge of assistance and appeared to relish accompanying Mr. Cheney to the airport during the visit with American troops, including the crew of a C-130 cargo plane that arrived Thursday from Ramstein, Germany, with a load of blankets. ''We feel that we are not alone,'' he said.
 Significantly, the new American assistance does not include any aid for rebuilding Georgia's battered armed forces, which fared badly against a much larger Russian force that entered the country after the Georgians tried to seize control of South Ossetia on the night of Aug. 7.
 The Pentagon has begun considering Georgian pleas for help to re-equip and train its army, with the use of more sophisticated weapons. But a senior administration official traveling with Mr. Cheney said that Georgia first needed to revive its economy. ''Over time, I'm sure, people will look at what happened with the military here and what its needs are,'' the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. ''But I think the focus for the moment is on the humanitarian and long-term economic needs.''
 Initial problems distributing American relief supplies, largely because of Russian roadblocks, have abated, allowing the aid to flow to most areas where it is needed, the official said. As of Thursday, the American military had delivered nearly $38 million worth of food, blankets, cots and other supplies.
 An American command ship from the Sixth Fleet, the Mount Whitney, is now in the Black Sea headed to Georgia with still more. It will be the third American warship to dock in Georgia in the last month, a naval relief operation the Russians have denounced as military, not humanitarian.
 Georgia's economy, until recently among the fastest growing in the world, suffered badly during the fighting, which severed the main roads and railways. A drop in foreign investment, the official said, has also produced a shortfall in the country's budget, something an agreement with the International Monetary Fund to provide $750 million in financing is intended to help.
 In an interview, Georgia's prime minister, Lado Gurgenidze, said that the war had cost $1 billion, including direct damage to infrastructure and property. At the same time, he said the country's economy remained ''remarkably resilient,'' thanks to the support from abroad. ''The free world will not let the Georgia economy fall and will not let it founder,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Dick Cheney with a Ukraine honor guard after arriving Thursday in Kiev. Earlier Mr. Cheney visited Georgia, where he denounced Russia for its role in the conflict with Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI SUPINSKY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GEORGIA (95%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



109 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Obama Camp Turns to Clinton to Counter Palin

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and JEFF ZELENY; Patrick Healy reported from Minnesota, and Jeff Zeleny from Pennsylvania.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama will increasingly lean on prominent Democratic women to undercut Gov. Sarah Palin and Senator John McCain, dispatching Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to Florida on Monday and bolstering his plan to deploy female surrogates to battleground states, Obama advisers said Thursday.
 Mrs. Clinton's campaign event in Florida, her first for Mr. Obama since the Democratic convention, will serve as a counterpoint to the searing attacks and fresh burst of energy that Ms. Palin injected into the race with her convention speech on Wednesday, Obama aides said. 
 With the McCain-Palin team courting undecided female voters, including some who backed Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primaries, Obama aides said they were counting on not only Mrs. Clinton but also Democratic female governors to rebut Ms. Palin -- and, by extension, Mr. McCain. Those governors include Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas.
 Still, within the Obama campaign and among Democratic officials nationwide, talks are well under way about how the party should treat Ms. Palin in the campaign -- and what Mr. Obama and his running mate, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., need to do to regain the offensive after the Republican convention.
 Some Democrats were urging Mr. Obama's campaign not to underestimate the potential power of Ms. Palin's speech, even among voters not aligned with either party: On liberal talk-radio shows and on left-leaning blogs, some Democrats said the Obama campaign should fight back hard to avoid being caricatured as Senator John Kerry was four years ago when he ran against President Bush. Some party strategists warned that Mrs. Palin's personal narrative as a ''hockey mom'' with a special-needs child, would appeal to some undecided women voters. 
 ''What McCain has done with Governor Palin's nomination is aim right at a demographic that Obama needs to address quickly: noncollege-educated women,'' said Mike McCurry, a former spokesman in the Clinton White House. ''They need to maximize Biden's ability to reach out to them, but at the end of the day, it is Obama who has to get that very, very critical group.''
 Advisers to Mr. Obama predicted that the buzz over Ms. Palin would fade and that the race would quickly turn back into a contest between Senators McCain and Obama, despite the McCain campaign's efforts to compare Mr. Obama's experience unfavorably to Ms. Palin's. At the same time, even as Democratic researchers pore over Ms. Palin's record in Alaska, a rapid response team is being created in Chicago to dispatch female surrogates around the country.
 David Axelrod, the Obama campaign's chief political strategist, said Mr. Obama would not raise questions about Ms. Palin's experience. Mr. Axelrod said the campaign would work instead to impress upon voters the seriousness of the race and continue to try to link the McCain-Palin team to President Bush.
 While Mr. Obama did not aggressively challenge Ms. Palin, his advisers opened a new line of criticism to brand her as part of the Republican establishment.
 ''For someone who makes the point that she's not from Washington, she looked very much like she'd fit in very well there when you see how she brings the attacks,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''They all felt very familiar to Americans who are used to this kind of thing from Washington.''
 Advisers to Mrs. Clinton said that she stood ready to help the Obama-Biden ticket, but they urged the campaign not to overestimate the impact Mrs. Clinton could have, noting that she had other commitments this fall, like campaigning and raising money for Senate candidates. Obama aides said the Clinton trip had been in the works before Ms. Palin was named the running mate.
 Still, Mo Elleithee, a Clinton spokesman, said he believed she could make a difference with some voters who feel lost in the current economy and who want to see a federal role enacting universal health insurance. 
 ''Anyone who was inclined to support Hillary Clinton typically did so because of her focus on middle-class, bread-and-butter issues,'' Mr. Elleithee said. ''Her message for Barack Obama on those issues could certainly help the Democratic ticket at the ballot box.''
 The Obama camp also plans to keep Mr. Biden campaigning steadily in swing states. Obama advisers said that one advantage they had was that Mr. Biden, as a six-term senator and former presidential candidate, is well-prepared for his single debate with Ms. Palin, in October.
 With both conventions seen largely as successes for their tickets, the importance of the three presidential debates -- the first of which is Sept. 26 -- and the one vice-presidential debate become even more crucial for either side to gain a political advantage, Democratic strategists and elected officials said.
 Mr. Obama, speaking to reporters on Thursday at a campaign stop in York, Pa., brushed aside any worry that he might have about Ms. Palin's criticism of his biography and political record in her convention speech.
 ''I've been called worse on the basketball court, so it's not that big of a deal,'' he said.
 Yet Ms. Palin seemed to be on Mr. Obama's mind. At a rally in Lancaster, Pa., Mr. Obama asked an audience of several thousand people if they had ''caught any of the performances'' at the Republican convention.
 Mr. Obama did not mention Ms. Palin by name, but added, ''They may have found some new faces to present their message, but it's the same old message.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WOMEN (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); SARAH PALIN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE BIDEN (59%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



110 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Mayor Will Leave Office and Go to Jail

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick pleaded guilty to felony charges here on Thursday and agreed to resign from office and serve 120 days in jail, ending eight months of political turmoil but also opening a new era of uncertainty for the city.
After the agreement, Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan suspended her hearing on whether to remove Mr. Kilpatrick for misconduct, relieving her of being in the awkward position of possibly ousting the mayor, a fellow Democrat, from office.
''It is my profound hope that we can now write a new history for this great but embattled city and that the citizens of Detroit begin the healing process to move forward,'' she said. But even as the fate of Mr. Kilpatrick became clear on Thursday, a new layer of potential pitfalls came into view.
The City Council that will now try to bring stability to the nation's 11th largest city is known for its volatility. Its two top leaders, Kenneth V. Cockrel Jr., the council president who will now be interim mayor, and Monica Conyers, who will become president of the Council, were recently involved in a public shouting match that has become a running joke. 
And some members of the Council are under federal investigation for possibly taking payoffs before approving a multimillion-dollar sewage contract.
''Moving forward will require all of us to put aside the anger and bitterness of the past few months,'' said Mr. Cockrel, 42, ''and heal as a community.''
Mr. Cockrel, whose father, a civil rights activist, died in 1989 before he could achieve his own mayoral aspirations and whose stepmother is a current council member, said chief among his responsibilities would be ''restoring the credibility of not only the mayor but also of the city of Detroit.''
In an evening address from his office, an upbeat Mr. Kilpatrick took a parting swipe at Ms. Granholm. He also acknowledged what he called his ''poor judgment,'' asked the city to throw its support behind Mr. Cockrel and gave a litany of his achievements.
''I want to emphasize tonight that I take full responsibility for my own actions,'' he said. ''I wish with all my heart that we could turn back the hands of time and tell that young man to make better choices. But I can't. Our challenge now is to put the anguish and turmoil of recent months behind us and join in a common cause to love our city, to love one another and move forward together.''
Police Chief Ella Bully-Cummings, a mayoral appointee, announced her retirement immediately after Mr. Kilpatrick's plea, and a host of other city officials and staff members are expected to leave their jobs. It all adds up to a tremendous amount of tumult for a poverty-stricken city that had been experiencing glimmers of a renaissance after decades of population loss and decline.
''If you drove over the city 10 years ago and now, you'd see many points of evidence that indeed there are good things going on in Detroit,'' said Michael Smith, a historian of the city. ''The sad thing is, Kwame Kilpatrick was becoming a good mayor and making some progress. He had a brilliant future.''
Much of the new enthusiasm in downtown Detroit is credited to Mr. Kilpatrick, a charismatic leader who brought a high level of energy and expectations to office when he was elected for the first time in 2001 at just 31 years old. With new attractions along a redeveloped riverfront, fresh business investment downtown and new housing in the city core, things seemed to be moving in the right direction.
''I think we can get the momentum back that we had before this happened,'' said Doug Rothwell, the president of Detroit Renaissance, a group of business leaders that promotes economic development in the city. ''There's no question that things have been put on pause during these eight months.''
Mr. Kilpatrick's ordeal also leaves ripple effects in the form of aggravated racial tension between whites and blacks and the city and its suburbs at a time when the region is suffering through a serious economic downturn.
Earlier this year, Mr. Kilpatrick claimed he was victimized by a ''lynch mob mentality.'' His supporters were critical of the possibility that Ms. Granholm, who is white, might oust the black mayor, who was called racial epithets and anonymously pilloried in city graffiti and on local Web sites. Bad feelings linger.
''The people who used to occupy Detroit before they fled for the suburbs want it back,'' said Michael Wilson, a driver for a hotel, echoing a sentiment that is not uncommon in struggling neighborhoods. ''They want to set up a power structure they like.''
''This plays to some of the stereotypes about the city, that it is corrupt and has issues with crime and various social ills,'' said Vincent Hutchings, a political science professor at the University of Michigan. ''The elephant in the room is the issue of race. There is an urban core-suburban conflict, which is also a black-white conflict.''
''They'll be able to recover in that whatever taint is associated with Kilpatrick need not follow his successor,'' Mr. Hutchings said. ''But his successor would still have to grapple with the endemic problems associated with living in such a segregated state.''
In recent weeks, the city government became progressively more paralyzed during the playing out of the scandal, which stemmed mainly from the revelation that the mayor had an extramarital affair with his chief of staff, Christine Beatty, and his efforts to keep that affair secret.
Mr. Kilpatrick was accused of forcing three police officers out of their jobs, and then, when they sued the city over their dismissal, of using $8.4 million in public money to settle the lawsuit on favorable terms before the affair could be disclosed in court testimony.
The affair became public anyway, when The Detroit Free Press published steamy text messages sent from a city-owned pager that detailed much of the romance between Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Beatty, who resigned when the affair became public. The text messages and the affair contradicted testimony Mr. Kilpatrick had given under oath, resulting in eight felony charges. Later, he was charged with two more felonies for assault when, investigators said, he interfered with police officers trying to serve a subpoena related to the text-message case.
Mr. Kilpatrick's lawyers tried unsuccessfully in recent days to negotiate plea agreements that would not involve jail time, but prosecutors were adamant. Mr. Kilpatrick will serve 120 days in county jail for the guilty pleas to two felony counts of obstruction of justice. He also pleaded no contest to one of the assault charges. The others were dismissed.
Mr. Kilpatrick will give up his pension and law license and pay $1 million in restitution to the City of Detroit as part of the plea deal, and he will be on probation for five years after his sentence.
But what happens to Detroit is less clear. There are high hopes amid the uncertainty.
''I would think that at this point in time Mr. Cockrel will get the benefit of the proverbial honeymoon and have the benefit of the City Council rallying around him,'' said Larry Dubin, professor of law at the University of Detroit Mercy School of Law. ''There's a great deal of optimism in this region. I think Detroiters are very resilient people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick pleaded guilty on Thursday to two counts of obstruction of justice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)
Christine Beatty, Mr. Kilpatrick's former chief of staff, and her lawyer, Jeffrey Morganroth, were in the court for the hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(A16)
 Kenneth V. Cockrel Jr., shown in June, will be interim mayor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); FELONIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); POOR POPULATION (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); EXTORTION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



111 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Young Voters Know What's at Stake: Our Future

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''And Then There Was One'' (column, Sept. 3): 
 Speaking directly to college students, Thomas L. Friedman cautions, ''Don't let anyone tell you that on the issue of green, this election is not important.''
 Young voters know what's at stake in this election: our future. The challenges presented by the global climate crisis and the opportunities presented by a new green economy demand action. 
 Young voters are aware of this and are mobilizing in large numbers to make sure that clean energy is a top issue in this election.
 I work directly with youth leaders who are working on hundreds of campuses and in communities around the country to create a ''power vote'' this election. At concerts, freshman orientations, bars, classes and dorms, as well as through Facebook, we are talking to millions of our peers and getting one million of them committed to being ''climate voters'' this election. 
 Our generation needs a new vision for our future. We need an economy that moves us beyond dirty energy, creates green jobs for all and secures our climate. As we head to the polls in record numbers, that's what we'll be voting for.
 Jessy Tolkan 
 Washington, Sept. 3, 2008
 The writer is a co-director of the Energy Action Coalition and the Power Vote campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



112 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Firing Up the Faithful With Echoes of Culture War Rhetoric

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former mayor of New York, said Senator Barack Obama thought a small Alaska suburb was not ''flashy enough'' or ''cosmopolitan enough,'' linking his campaign to ''Hollywood celebrities.'' Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, denounced the ''Eastern elites'' that he said dominated the television broadcasts and editorial pages. 
 Fred D. Thompson, a former Tennessee senator turned actor, mocked Mr. Obama for trying to deflect questions about the science and theology of abortion, promising the Republican convention audience that Senator John McCain would be ''a president who doesn't think that the protection of the unborn or a newly born baby is above his pay grade.'' 
 And the selection of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as the Republican vice-presidential nominee put the abortion issue center stage: A committed Christian conservative, she has been a hero to the anti-abortion movement since she gave birth to a child with Down syndrome last spring.
 The Republican National Convention this week in Minneapolis-St. Paul hardly measures up to the belligerence of Patrick J. Buchanan's 1992 call for a ''cultural war,'' but some of the same refrains are playing in the background. ''If you want to define your party, you have got to say who you are,'' Gary Bauer, a Christian conservative political advocate, said approvingly. 
 The heated debates over social issues like abortion had appeared to be burning out, overshadowed by terrorism, war and economic difficulties. 
 Now, however, the war in Iraq appears to be stabilizing, economics are a delicate subject for Republicans while a president of their party presides over the current slowdown, and the potential for two vacancies on the Supreme Court adds urgency to the issues. An Obama victory risks ''a Supreme Court that could be lost to liberalism for a generation,'' Mr. Thompson warned.
 At the convention, speakers have harped upon certain details of Mr. Obama's life as recurring themes. His work as a community organizer -- a vaguely left-sounding job many Americans would be hard put to explain -- has become a laugh line. Several speakers, including Ms. Palin and Mr. Giuliani, alluded to a remark he made at a San Francisco fund-raiser about the need to reach ''bitter'' working-class voters who ''cling to guns and religion.''
 The aim, of course, is to portray Mr. Obama as an outsider -- Mr. Romney suggested that Democrats want the United States to follow a European path -- who cannot understand the concerns of ordinary Americans. 
 The echoes of culture war rhetoric are a notable change from the Republican conventions of 2000 and 2004, when many social conservatives like Mr. Bauer complained that President Bush's campaign had hidden them and their issues from the cameras. Mr. Bush, while known to oppose abortion rights, preferred to discuss the issue with gentle euphemisms to avoid turning off more moderate voters. During the debates over his Supreme Court nominations, the liberal activists on the other side chose to play down abortion and other social issues as well.
 The convention presents a contrast with its nominee as well. Mr. McCain has seldom seemed eager to talk about social issues and has urged his party to moderate its abortion stance. 
 The Democrats took a different approach at their convention, trying to invite in religious voters and abortion opponents (though without dropping the party's support for abortion rights). 
 But the paradoxical logic of political conventions dictates that less-partisan candidates often feel compelled to showcase more partisan convictions to shore up their rear flanks. 
 Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican who supports abortion rights, argued that the moderate voters in his state -- in the pivotal Philadelphia suburbs, for example -- would shrug off the convention as ''red meat'' for convention activists. ''My preference would be that you don't have a litmus test on abortion anywhere, including in the selection of a vice president,'' Mr. Specter said, ''but I can understand Senator McCain's concern about solidifying the base, especially since he had had a rocky relationship with it.''
 Republican strategists emphasized the differences between this convention and Mr. Buchanan's famous ''culture war'' speech at the 1992 convention, widely blamed for hurting President George Bush with moderate voters. There was a speech by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who calls himself an independent Democrat, and, there has been no allusion whatsoever to race, a potentially volatile issue with the first African-American nominee of a major party.
 Whit Ayres, a Republican strategist, argued that the tone of the rhetoric differed as well. The barbs at the convention this year flew toward Mr. Obama, not the broad swath of Americans Mr. Buchanan had in mind. ''There is a difference between sarcasm toward individuals and sneering toward an entire group of people,'' Mr. Ayres said.
 Still, talk of a culture divide was ''like wallpaper,'' said John Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron in Ohio who studies religion and politics. ''There was this relentless emphasis on cultural difference. 'We are from the real America; our opponents don't understand it.' ''
 Mr. Buchanan said he was delighted. ''Now the conservatives and the Republicans and evangelicals, they have got somebody to go out and work for, to root for, to help,'' he said on MSNBC. ''I think you've really got almost an even race in terms of enthusiasm, energy and fire.'' Of Ms. Palin, he added, ''A star is born.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Convention delegates made signs in praise of Sarah Palin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); ABORTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (67%); DOWN SYNDROME (52%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



113 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Offers Storm Aid to Cuba Only Through Relief Groups

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
The United States State Department said Thursday that it had offered humanitarian aid to Cuban victims of Hurricane Gustav, provided that it went through relief organizations and not the government of President Raul Castro. 
 ''The U.S. government informed the Cuban government that we're prepared to offer hurricane assistance to the Cuban citizens,'' said Heide Bronke, a State Department spokeswoman. ''We've made the offer, but we haven't heard from them yet.''
 All six Cuban-American members of Congress have called this week for the Bush administration to aid victims of the storm, which tore through the western province of Pinar del Rio and the Isle of Youth over the weekend, causing what the Cuban government estimates to be billions of dollars in damage.
 The offer from the United States, which was made Wednesday through the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, calls for an initial $100,000 in emergency aid. The State Department also offered to send disaster experts from the United States Agency for International Development to Cuba to assess damage. Initial estimates by the United States put the number of Cubans affected by the storm at 500,000.
 Whether Cuba would accept such assistance from Washington remains to be seen. The countries have a long history of animosity when it comes to disaster aid.
 Cuba's former ruler, Fidel Castro, wrote in a newspaper commentary on Wednesday that the storm hit Cuba like a ''nuclear blast'' and that the damage reminded him of what he saw when he visited Hiroshima, Japan, after World War II.
 The hurricane's wind speeds exceeded 150 miles per hour, and more than 100,000 homes were leveled in Cuba. There were mandatory evacuations of the affected areas, however, and not a single death was reported. Haiti was also hit hard by the storm; the death toll there exceeds 100.
 ''Now the battle is to feed the victims,'' Mr. Castro wrote, estimating that it would take $3 billion to $4 billion to finance basic recovery efforts.
 Russia sent two cargo planes to Cuba on Thursday, and state television showed workers unloading tents and construction materials at the airport in Havana, Reuters reported. Cuban state media have said that Venezuela and China, two close allies, have offered aid, as have Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.
 In 2004, Cuba rejected an American offer of $50,000 in aid after Hurricane Charley, calling the amount humiliating and the offer ''cynical and hypocritical.'' 
 Cuba's Foreign Ministry said then that the American trade embargo of nearly half a century made it clear that the aid offer was not genuine. ''Cuba will not accept supposed help from the government of a country that harms us and tries to take us under with hunger and need,'' the ministry said in a statement four years ago.
 In 2005, Cuba offered to send doctors to the United States to help treat victims of Hurricane Katrina. The White House declined the offer.
 In 1996, Cuba agreed to accept tons of rice, milk and beans from the United States after Hurricane Lili, but it later turned down part of a planeload of the aid because some packages contained slogans that the government considered ''suggestive, provocative and counter-revolutionary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cubans played dominoes near fallen trees and flooded streets in Baracoa on Wednesday. A new storm brought more rain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (90%); HURRICANES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); WEATHER (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



114 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: McCain Sounds His Theme As a Fight For Change

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
ST. PAUL -- Senator John McCain accepted the Republican presidential nomination Thursday with a pledge to move the nation beyond ''partisan rancor'' and narrow self-interest in a speech in which he markedly toned down the blistering attacks on Senator Barack Obama that had filled the first nights of his convention.
Standing in the center of an arena here, surrounded by thousands of Republican delegates, Mr. McCain firmly signaled that he intended to seize the mantle of change Mr. Obama claimed in his own unlikely bid for his party's nomination.
Mr. McCain suggested that his choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate gave him the license to run as an outsider against Washington, even though he has served in Congress for more than 25 years. 
''Let me just offer an advance warning to the old, big-spending, do-nothing, me-first-country-second crowd: Change is coming,'' Mr. McCain said.
With his speech, Mr. McCain laid out the broad outlines of his general election campaign. He sought to move from a convention marked by an intense effort to reassure the party base to an appeal to a broader general election audience that polling suggests has turned sharply on Republicans and President Bush. He invoked, in one of the most emotional moments of the night, his struggles as a prisoner of war in Vietnam.
Mr. McCain also returned to what has been his signature theme as a candidate, including in his unsuccessful 2000 campaign: that he is a politician prepared to defy his own party. He used the word ''fight'' 43 times in the course of the speech, as he sought to present himself as the insurgent he was known as before the primaries, when he veered to the right.
''Stand up, stand up, stand up and fight,'' he said at the end of his speech. ''Nothing is inevitable here. We're Americans, and we never give up. We never quit. We never hide from history. We make history.''
Much of the address, though delivered at one of the most prominent moments of a presidential campaign, was little different from the stump speech he has been delivering across the country. And it was often offered in a monotone as he stood before a solid-color backdrop that flicked from green to blue. The reaction was far more subdued than it was the night before for his running mate, Ms. Palin. There were stretches in which he drew only a smattering of applause.
''I liked the conservative tone and that he talking about being prolife, self-sufficient -- let's keep the money from countries that don't like us,'' said Peggy Lambert, a delegate from Maryville, Tenn.. ''But man, Sarah Palin! John is gonna have trouble keeping up with her.''
One of the livelier moments of the evening came when Mr. McCain was interrupted by several antiwar protestors who had infiltrated the hall. Their signs were quickly ripped from their hands, and they were carried out of the arena as the crowd shouted, ''U.S.A.! U.S.A.!''
Mr. McCain, who by now has become accustomed to these kinds of interruptions, responded with a smile. ''Please don't be diverted by the ground noise and the static,'' Mr. McCain said, before adding ''Americans want us to stop yelling at each other.''
Mr. McCain faced the challenge on Thursday of pivoting from making an appeal to Republican base voters to reaching out to the larger general election audience watching him. Accordingly, there were relatively few mentions of divisive social issues as he returned to the way he has historically presented himself: as an iconoclast willing to challenge his own party. That image was shaken this year as he as appeared to adjust some positions in navigating the primaries.
''You know, I've been called a maverick, someone who marches to the beat of his own drum,'' he said. '' Sometimes it's meant as a compliment and sometimes it's not. What it really means is I understand who I work for. I don't work for a party. I don't work for a special interest. I don't work for myself. I work for you.''
At a convention in which President Bush was barely mentioned, Mr. McCain paid only the most fleeting tribute to him, not even using his name. ''I'm grateful to the president for leading us in those dark days following the worst attack on American soil in our history, and keeping us safe from another attack many thought was inevitable,'' he said at the opening of his speech.
Mr. McCain defined bipartisanship as not only working with the opposite party but being prepared to work against his own, even though he is aligned with Mr. Bush on two of the biggest issues facing the country: the Iraq war and the economy.
That pledge of political independence and bipartisanship could prove especially valuable at a time when Republican Party is so unpopular.
''I fight to restore the pride and principles of our party,'' he said. ''We were elected to change Washington, and we let Washington change us.''
But he also pledged to work across the aisle.
''The constant partisan rancor that stops us from solving these problems isn't a cause, it's a symptom,'' he said. ''It's what happens when people go to Washington to work for themselves and not you. Again and again, I've worked with members of both parties to fix problems that need to be fixed. That's how I will govern as president.''
That approach also permitted him to reprise what has been a central line of attack against Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee, at a convention whose motto is ''country first'': that his opponent has put his political interests ahead of those of the country.
''I will reach out my hand to anyone to help me get this country moving again,'' Mr. McCain said. ''I have that record and the scars to prove it. Senator Obama does not.''
That was one of the few moments in which Mr. McCain directly engaged Mr. Obama. But every time he did -- contrasting, say, the two men's records on trade or taxes -- the crowd broke into loud applause, a clear signal of what they were looking for.
''I'm not running for president because I think I'm blessed with such personal greatness that history has anointed me to save our country in its hour of need,'' he said. ''My country saved me. My country saved me, and I cannot forget it. And I will fight for her for as long as I draw breath, so help me God.''
The McCain campaign not only tried to seize the ''change'' mantle from Mr. Obama but the ''peace'' one as well. Scores of signs saying ''Peace'' in capital letters were passed out among the delegates on the floor of the convention -- despite the fact that Mr. Obama opposed the Iraq war from the start, while Mr. McCain was an early proponent of it.
Mr. McCain pointed to his support for increasing the number of troops in Iraq, which Mr. Obama opposed, as evidence of his judgment. ''I fought for the right strategy and more troops in Iraq, when it wasn't a popular thing to do,'' he said. ''And when the pundits said my campaign was finished, I said I'd rather lose an election than see my country lose a war.
The speech at times seemed low on energy, and the crowd responded less enthusiastically than it did the night before for Ms. Palin. But towards the end Mr. McCain recounted, in detail, his captivity in Vietnam, drawing repeated ovations.
''I fell in love with my country when I was a prisoner in someone else's,'' he said. ''I loved it not just for the many comforts of life here. I loved it for its decency; for its faith in the wisdom, justice and goodness of its people. I loved it because it was not just a place, but an idea, a cause worth fighting for. I was never the same again. I wasn't my own man anymore. I was my country's.''
When it was over, he was greeted by his wife, Cindy, his running mate, Ms. Palin, and their families to the song ''Raisin' McCain,'' by John Rich, a country star who is supporting him. Then the theme song of the film ''Rudy'' -- which was the theme song of Rudolph W. Giuliani's presidential campaign -- and the song ''Barracuda,'' in what seemed to be a nod to Ms. Palin's nickname, ''Sarah Barracuda.''
Across the hall, delegates drew contrasts between the two speeches they heard to close out the convention.
''He doesn't have the sizzle that Sarah has,'' said Rick Lacey, 51, a delegate from Springfield, Ill. ''That's probably why he picked her.''
But David Kramer, a delegate from Omaha, said he was not bothered by that.
''Sarah really energized the crowd -- energetic, emotional, and really uplifting,'' Mr. Kramer said. Her speech was more about the people in this room, the base. His speech was more serious -- why is he fit to be commander in chief? What does he want to do for America. Sober stuff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain and his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, after his speech Thursday night. Their spouses and other family members stood behind them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Attendees at the convention included former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. Mr. McCain's speech had a rapt audience. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VIETNAM WAR (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); SARAH PALIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



115 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Palin's Speech: The Sparks Flew

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''On Center Stage, Palin Electrifies Convention'' (front page, Sept. 4):
 Gov. Sarah Palin may have passed her big test, but the more important story is the angry, disrespectful and mean-spirited comments of the featured Republican speakers in St. Paul.
 It's clear that they are following a script by Karl Rove, seeking to strike fear in us over terrorism, taxes, the liberal media and especially Barack Obama's resume. I'm sure that the conventioneers appreciated these presentations, but the bullying, domineering tone of these speakers was frightening. 
 We now know that the Republicans must be feeling very vulnerable, so they've made a statement that they're not giving up their White House perquisites and corporate donations without a fight. 
 Senator John McCain is pandering to everyone in sight, party elders are pumping Sarah Palin as the female disciple of Ronald Reagan, and Rudolph W. Giuliani demonstrates the power-obsessed bellicosity he kept under wraps when the media were calling him America's Mayor. Now he doesn't like them so much. 
 There are a lot of good people in the G.O.P., but these unprincipled toadies are not among them. Dean Fox 
 Foster City, Calif., Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Sarah Palin gave a virtuoso performance at the Republican National Convention on Wednesday night. If John McCain is elected president of the United States, credit should be given to his wise choice of a running mate. 
 Harris L. Present
 New York, Sept. 4, 2008 
 To the Editor:
 As an independent voter, I have been listening very carefully to the candidates. On Wednesday night, I watched the Republican convention, and I ultimately had to leave the room. 
 Between Rudolph W. Giuliani and Sarah Palin, the level of mockery, ridicule and poison left me almost speechless. Sadly, not only was this rhetoric acceptable, but it was also applauded and cheered.
 I need not watch John McCain's speech on Thursday night. Decision made ... I need no more.
 Kathy Franklin
 Sparks, Md., Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 In her speech on Wednesday night, Sarah Palin said, ''I guess a small-town mayor is sort of like a 'community organizer,' except that you have actual responsibilities.'' I have some news for Ms. Palin about the responsibilities of a community organizer. I know something about it because my son Matthew is a community organizer; and in south Chicago, as it happens. 
 It's true that he doesn't have the responsibilities of a small-town mayor. He's never had the responsibility to use authority and power to threaten to fire the librarian for not banning books that were incompatible with the mayor's personal beliefs and tastes. 
 Instead, he works 12 to 14 hours every day organizing ordinary people to secure decent and affordable housing, safe working conditions and a living wage. He works long hours to help working-class people secure a better life and a safer community. 
 But Sarah Palin doesn't consider that kind of work to involve any responsibilities. Apparently, her idea of responsibilities is using a position of power to push subordinates around. There's a word for that kind of attitude: elitism. 
 Ned Jaeckle
 Boulder, Colo., Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Sarah Palin enjoyed her coming-out party! A 360-degree approach to the issues that confront this nation, and a grand assault on the smug, elitist campaign of the Democrats led by Barack Obama.
 Ms. Palin was magnificent. Every woman in America who watched her, even staunch pro-choicers who will not vote for her, had to be moved by her. She is a gifted, natural and savvy politician. Those of us fortunate to tune in were treated to the coming out of a new star on the political stage of this nation.
 I never doubted Sarah Palin for a second. There is something about the story of this small-town girl from Alaska that is very attractive and compelling. The Republicans are very fortunate to have Sarah Palin in their camp. At 44, she has many promising years ahead of her. I would not count her out as a presidential candidate, and would be proud to have Ms. Palin and her family in the White House. Bob Jack
 North Las Vegas, Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Sarah Palin told a cute joke in her speech on Wednesday night:
 ''You know, they say the difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull? Lipstick!'' 
 But I don't want a pit bull as vice president, much less in the White House. We've had one of the so-called bully breeds in that office for almost eight years, and look at the result: reflexive war, and our Constitution savaged. 
 I'll be voting for an administration that has well-developed diplomatic skills, not just belligerence, in its arsenal. Madeline Klein
 Providence, R.I., Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a former hockey mom, I'm offended to be equated with a pit bull.
 Robin Nuse
 Hanover, N.H., Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Running Against Themselves'' (editorial, Sept. 4):
 Watching the Republican National Convention on Wednesday night, with all its sarcastic references to the Washington elite, I felt as though I had entered some kind of alternative universe. 
 In this universe, John McCain isn't a four-term senator, the Republicans have not had control of Congress for most of the 21st century, and there hasn't been a Republican in the White House for almost eight years.
 Just because the name George W. Bush was conspicuously absent from the evening's oratory does not mean that he does not exist in our universe. Nor is it likely that voters, beset by a host of concerns about the direction of the nation, are going to forget that they live in the real world. Russ Weiss 
 Princeton, N.J., Sept. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Two Conventions With No Shortage of Contrasts'' (Political Memo, Sept. 4):
 Choosing the most disturbing aspect of the Republican National Convention on Wednesday night might be difficult for some of your readers, but for me there was a clear winner: the ''Drill, baby, drill!'' chants from the audience. 
 Whether staged or spontaneous, those gleeful words showed a level of ignorance and recklessness that should be inconceivable today. It was as if global warming -- the real social, political and economic challenge of the century -- simply did not exist. 
 The moment I realized what they were chanting, I felt real sadness and fear for my 2-year-old child. We have to do better, and we have to do better now.
 Dan Carsen
 Birmingham, Ala., Sept. 4, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASHAR AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LIBERAL MEDIA (71%); CENSORSHIP (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (56%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); KARL ROVE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



116 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Main Bank Of China Is in Need Of Capital

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China's central bank is in a bind.
It has been on a buying binge in the United States over the last seven years, snapping up roughly $1 trillion worth of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Those investments have been declining sharply in value when converted from dollars into the strong yuan, casting a spotlight on the central bank's tiny capital base. The bank's capital, just $3.2 billion, has not grown during the buying spree, despite private warnings from the International Monetary Fund.
Now the central bank needs an infusion of capital. Central banks can, of course, print more money, but that would stoke inflation. Instead, the People's Bank of China has begun discussions with the finance ministry on ways to shore up its capital, said three people familiar with the discussions who insisted on anonymity because the subject is delicate in China. 
The central bank's predicament has several repercussions. For one, it makes it less likely that China will allow the yuan to continue rising against the dollar, say central banking experts. This could heighten trade tensions with the United States. The Bush administration and many Democrats in Congress have sought a stronger yuan to reduce the competitiveness of Chinese exports and trim the American trade deficit.
The central bank has been the main advocate within China for a stronger yuan. But it now finds itself increasingly beholden to the finance ministry, which has tended to oppose a stronger yuan. As the yuan slips in value, China's exports gain an edge over the goods of other countries.
The two bureaucracies have been ferocious rivals. Accepting an injection of capital from the finance ministry could reduce the independence of the central bank, said Eswar S. Prasad, the former division chief for China at the International Monetary Fund.
''Central banks hate doing that because it puts them more under the thumb of the finance ministry,'' he said.
Mr. Prasad said that during his trips to Beijing on behalf of the I.M.F., he had repeatedly cautioned China over the enormous scale of its holdings of American bonds, emphasizing that it left China vulnerable to losses from either a strengthening of the yuan or from a rise in American interest rates. When interest rates rise, the prices of bonds fall.
Officials at the central bank declined to comment, while finance ministry officials did not respond to calls or questions via fax seeking comment. Data in a study by the Bank of International Settlements based in Basel, Switzerland, sometimes called the central bank for central banks, shows that many central banks had small capital bases relative to foreign reserves at the end of 2002, though few were as low as the People's Bank of China.
Given the poor performance of foreign bonds, the Chinese government could decide to shift some of its foreign exchange reserves into global stock markets.
The central bank started making modest purchases of foreign stocks last winter, but has kept almost all of its reserves in bonds, like other central banks.
The finance ministry, however, has pushed for investments in overseas stocks. Last year, it wrested control of the $200 billion China Investment Corporation, which had been bankrolled by the central bank. That corporation's most publicized move, a $3 billion investment in the Blackstone Group in May of last year, has lost more than 43 percent of its value.
The central bank's difficulties do not, by themselves, pose a threat to the economy, economists agree. The government has ample resources and is running a budget surplus. Most likely, the finance ministry would simply transfer bonds of other Chinese government agencies to the bank to increase its capital. But even in a country that strongly discourages criticism of its economic policies, hints of dissatisfaction are appearing over China's foreign investments.
For instance, a Chinese blogger complained last month, ''It is as if China has made a gift to the United States Navy of 200 brand new aircraft carriers.''
Bankers estimate that $1 trillion of China's total foreign exchange reserves of $1.8 trillion are in American securities. With aircraft carriers costing up to $5 billion apiece, $1 trillion would, in theory, buy 200 of them.
By buying United States bonds, the Chinese government has been investing a large chunk of the country's savings in assets earning just 3 percent annually in dollars. And those low returns turn into real declines of about 10 percent a year after factoring in inflation and the yuan's appreciation against the dollar.
The yuan has risen 21 percent against the dollar since China stopped pegging its currency to the dollar in July 2005.
The actual declines in value of the central bank's various investments are a carefully guarded state secret.
Still China finds itself hemmed in. If it were to curtail its purchases of dollar-denominated securities drastically, the dollar would likely fall and American interest rates could soar.
China spent more than one-eighth of its entire economic output last year on foreign bonds, and then picked up the pace during the first half of this year. Chinese officials have suggested in recent comments that they are increasingly interested in stopping the yuan's rise, and thus are willing to continue buying foreign securities to support the dollar. In fact, the yuan weakened slightly against the dollar last month after 26 consecutive months of gains.
Along with Treasuries, China has invested heavily in mortgage-backed bonds from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the struggling mortgage finance giants that are sponsored by the United States government. Standard & Poor's estimates China's holdings at $340 billion.
Some bond traders suspect that the central bank has scaled back its purchases of these securities, as have China's commercial banks. But the central bank trades this debt through many third parties in many countries, making its activity opaque to outside analysts.
The central bank has gone to great lengths to maintain its foreign purchases. The money to buy foreign bonds has come from the reserves required that commercial banks must deposit with the central bank. In effect, China's commercial banks have been lending the central bank more than $1 trillion at an interest rate of less than 2 percent.
To keep the banks strong when they were getting such little interest on their reserves, the central bank has kept deposit rates low. The gap between what banks are paying on deposits and the rates they are charging ordinary customers to borrow is several percentage points. This amounts to a transfer of wealth from ordinary Chinese savers to the central bank and on to Americans who are selling their debt to the Chinese.
The central bank is now under considerable pressure to reduce the commercial banks' reserve requirements to encourage growth as the Chinese economy shows signs of slowing.
Victor Shih, a specialist in Chinese central banking at Northwestern University, said that when he visited the People's Bank of China for a series of meetings this summer, he was surprised by how many officials resented the institution's losses.
He said the officials blamed the United States and believed the controversial assertions set forth in the book ''Currency War,'' a Chinese best seller published a year ago. The book suggests that the United States deliberately lured China into buying its securities knowing that they would later plunge in value.
''A lot of policy makers in China, at least midlevel policy makers, believe this,'' Mr. Shih said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dollar and yuan currency at a bank in China. China's central bank has accumulated about $1 trillion in United States debt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C2) CHARTS: The High Cost of Intervening in Currency Markets: For China to build and maintain its huge foreign exchange reserves
China's central bank pays less than 2 percent interest on deposits it holds from domestic commercial banks
 and pumps more Chinese currency into the market.(Source: People's Bank of China, via CEIC data.) Chart details line graphs for currency markets. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); BANKING IN CHINA (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); EXPORT PRICES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (86%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 3988 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



117 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Oligarchs May Face a Georgian Chill

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
As Russia's hot war with Georgia threatens to become a colder, drawn-out conflict with the West, the global ambitions of some of its politically connected, controversial billionaires could suffer a setback. 
 The oligarchs, as they are widely known, have already paid a price from Russia's forceful assertion in South Ossetia: the stock market recently hit a two-year low as foreign investors left in droves. 
 And while the sharpest of stock market swoons would only nick the oligarch's giant fortunes, of more lasting effect, perhaps, is the notion gaining currency in some financial circles that their close ties to Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin and his handpicked president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, may elevate the risk of doing business with them. 
 As the European Union seeks a diplomatic approach to Moscow, some policy makers are starting to suggest that the best way to influence the Kremlin would be to put more pressure on the Russian business community in Europe, particularly here in London, where many of the oligarchs have financial interests. 
 ''This is a big blow, a shock for all these people,'' said Anders Aslund, a critic of the Russian government who is an expert in Russian and East European studies at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''Relations with the West will be difficult. There will be sanctions, the stock market is down and governance is going down the drain, and it is all Putin's doing.'' 
 Russia's clash with the West follows a six-year, commodity-fueled boom that has pumped new life into a once destitute economy and catapulted the country's business elite to the ranks of billionaires. It also comes as some of the country's businessmen have begun to expand their international operations and loosen ties to Russia. 
 Roman Abramovich, the 42-year-old onetime oil baron with close ties to Mr. Putin, has established deep ties in London by turning part of his estimated $23 billion fortune into ownership of the Chelsea soccer club. He has plans to turn a 19th-century apartment residence in London's Lowndes Square into a mansion with a pool and parking garage. Although he recently sold much of his Russian portfolio and resigned as governor of Russia's Chukotka region, his ties with the Kremlin have helped him avoid the fate of oligarchs like Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the former billionaire owner of the Yukos oil company who sits in a Siberian jail cell after failed efforts to oppose Mr. Putin's policies. 
 Another oligarch with close ties to Mr. Putin is Oleg V. Deripaska, 40, an aluminum magnate with a net worth of $28 billion who has also moved beyond Russia's borders. His holding company, Basic Element, with $27 billion in revenue, has invested in Magna, a Canadian auto parts company. It has purchased large stakes in two construction companies in Austria and Germany and is a large investor in Montenegro. Mr. Deripaska is weighing a public offering of Rusal, the aluminum company that he controls.
 For Boris Berezovsky, a billionaire whose once-powerful stature was cut down after Mr. Putin began scrutinizing the nation's richest men, Russia's conflict with Georgia opens the door for the West to consider influencing the Kremlin by going after its favored oligarchs -- including Mr. Abramovich and Mr. Deripaska. ''They are part of his regime,'' Mr. Berezovsky said. 
 ''The West plays with the rules of a democrat, but Putin is a gangster,'' he declared, sitting at the head of a boardroom table in his London office. ''He understands only power.'' 
 Since his 2000 escape to London, where he was granted asylum, Mr. Berezovsky has been a ceaseless (if not perhaps self-interested) scold, calling for the United States and Europe to cut ties with Mr. Putin. 
 With regard to Mr. Abramovich Mr. Berezovsky does not pretend to be objective. He has filed a $:2 billion ($3.5 billion) lawsuit against his former business associate, claiming Mr. Abramovich forced him to sell his shares of the Russian oil company Sibneft and other assets for far less than their real value. 
 To support his claim that Mr. Abramovich and Mr. Putin are ''business partners,'' he cites an encounter with Mr. Abramovich in 1999 where he was asked to split the cost of a $50 million yacht for Mr. Putin -- an offer Mr. Berezovsky says he refused.
 Bankers in Moscow also say there will be lasting results from Russia's diplomatic estrangement. Raising capital from Western banks, already difficult with the tighten credit markets, will become harder, and securing visas may become more difficult. 
 Mr. Deripaska has already had a visa to the United States revoked over concerns about his business practices. And last month David Cameron, the British Conservative Party leader, called for a review of his country's visa policy toward Russia's elite -- without naming names. To some observers, the mere mention of the idea by a leading British politician shows that international attitudes toward Russia's leading oligarchs may have further to fray.
 Spokesmen for Mr. Abramovich and Mr. Deripaska disputed the notion that their expanding business operations would feel the sting of an anti-Putin effort. 
 Speaking for Mr. Abramovich, John Mann declined to address Mr. Berezovsky's claims, citing the continuing litigation. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Deripaska said: ''Basic Element maintains normal and constructive relations with Russian authorities.'' 
 According to Mr. Aslund, Mr. Abramovich has the closer relationship to the Russian leadership. He pointed to Mr. Abramovich's $13 billion sale in 2005 of his stake in the oil company Sibneft to Gazprom, where Mr. Medvedev was a top executive. 
 For years these cozy links were played down by investors. But the outbreak of war, coming on top of the conflict between the oil company BP and its partners in a Russian joint venture, suggests that in the future the compact between big business and big government in Russia will no longer be looked upon so benignly. 
 ''The risk premium has to be applied more broadly in Russia,'' said John-Paul Smith, a strategist for Russia and Central Europe at Pictet, a Swiss asset manager. ''You are never sure where private business ends and government starts.'' 
 For the moment, there is little immediate likelihood that Mr. Deripaska or Mr. Abramovich would suffer an indignity here. The breadth and scope of Mr. Deripaska's and Mr. Abramovich's businesses should be enough to protect them from any kind of investor strike. Mr. Abramovich and Mr. Deripaska have built strong personal and business ties to the West as well. Mr. Deripaska, for example, has relied on the financial advice of Nathaniel Rothschild, the man in line to be the fifth Baron Rothschild. He is also an investment partner with Peter Munk, chairman and founder of Barrick Gold, in several projects. 
 ''The fact that he is close to Putin is neither a plus or a minus,'' said Mr. Munk, who sits on the advisory board of Rusal. ''I judge him by his behavior, and my trust in him is complete.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oleg V. Deripaska, right, an aluminum magnate, with the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, in February.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ILYA NAYMUSHIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
A Russian billionaire in exile, Boris Berezovsky, center, said the West can influence Russia by pressuring its businessmen.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAUN CURRY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Roman Abramovich, a former oil baron, has combined close ties to the Kremlin with personal and business ties to the West.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER NEMENOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); SOCCER (50%)

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (58%); BORIS BEREZOVSKY (58%); OLEG DERIPASKA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (93%); GEORGIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008



118 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Conflict Tests Ties Between the Georgian and Russian Orthodox Churches

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
While the leaders of Russia and Georgia exchange recriminations, Christians in the two nations are worrying about the damage that the bitter conflict has inflicted on the cherished unity of the Orthodox Church. 
 More than 100 million Russians affirm the Orthodox faith, making up the largest Orthodox Church in Christendom. The post-Soviet Russian government has re-embraced Orthodoxy as the national faith. 
 Moscow has used the religion to rally support on a range of issues -- for Serbia, for instance, when it was being bombed by NATO in 1999, and in pressing Russia's grievances against Ukraine, which includes parts dominated by Eastern Rite Catholics loyal to Rome and long at loggerheads with the Orthodox Church. 
 Georgia is equally identified with its Orthodox Church. But the supposedly unthinkable prospect of two Orthodox nations at war with each other failed to deter either Russia or Georgia from armed conflict in August. 
 The two churches expressed dismay. The patriarchs of both the Russian and Georgian Orthodox Churches issued immediate appeals for peace. The strong urgings were all the more striking for the Russian patriarch, Aleksy II, who rarely differs publicly with the Kremlin. 
 ''Today, blood is being shed and people are perishing in South Ossetia, and my heart deeply grieves over it,'' Patriarch Aleksy said in a statement on Aug. 8 as the fighting raged. ''Orthodox Christians are among those who have raised their hands against each other. Orthodox peoples called by the Lord to live in fraternity and love are in conflict.'' 
 Two days later, in a sermon in Tbilisi, Patriarch Ilia II of the Georgian Orthodox Church said that ''one thing concerns us very deeply -- that Orthodox Russians are bombing Orthodox Georgians.''
 According to the church's Web site, he added: ''This is an unprecedented act of relations between our countries. Reinforce your prayer and God will save Georgia.'' 
 The ties between the Orthodox churches did prove strong enough to offer some relief to civilians swept up in the conflict. Bringing food and aid, the Georgian patriarch made a pastoral visit to Gori, a central Georgian city, while it was occupied by Russian forces. 
 According to Metropolitan Kirill of Smolensk and Kaliningrad, chairman of the Moscow Patriarchate's department of external church relations, the Russian church facilitated the visit. He said the Moscow patriarchate also conveyed letters of appeal from Patriarch Ilia of Georgia to the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, and Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin. Like other Russian politicians, the two leaders have in public made much of their Orthodox faith. 
 In his appeal, Patriarch Ilia said he was appalled that ''Russian air forces have been bombing Georgian cities and villages, Orthodox Christians have been killing each other!'' According to his patriarchate's Web site, he expressed sorrow at Georgian and Ossetian deaths and rejected as ''a pure lie'' Russia's accusations that Georgia had committed genocide. 
 The Russian conflict with Georgia is the first fighting between nations peopled by a majority of Orthodox Christians and not under Communist rule since the Second Balkan War in 1913 pitted Serbia, Greece, Montenegro and Romania against Bulgaria in a prelude to World War I. 
 Priests and others close to the Orthodox churches have lamented that while religion has recovered its stature in post-Soviet society, appeals to prayer could not prevent bloodshed between Orthodox peoples who share centuries of cultural, political and economic ties. 
 Anatoly Krasikov, director of the Center for Religious and Social Studies of the Institute of Europe in Moscow, said the fighting had punctured two myths: ''the myth of unity of Orthodox peoples'' and ''the myth of the supreme peacemaking ability of Orthodox civilization.'' 
 ''Of course it is not Orthodoxy that is to blame for this collapse,'' he said, ''but concrete people, functionaries of the church administrative structures of Russian and Georgian Orthodoxy.'' For all practical purposes, they remained aloof, he said, and ''did nothing to end a war that was unjust from all sides.'' 
 The Russian Public Opinion Research Center found in a poll last year that about 75 percent of Russia's 141 million people affirm the Orthodox faith, though only 10 percent say they are regular churchgoers. In the Orthodox world, the Moscow Patriarchate is a rival of the Patriarchate of Constantinople, which serves a much smaller flock but is much older and regarded by many outside Russia to be symbolically more important. 
 Georgia has a population of fewer than five million, but it is one of the most ancient Christian countries. Its church dates from the fourth century, much older than the Russian church, whose roots go back only to the Baptism of Rus in 988, when Prince Vladimir of Kiev brought Orthodoxy to the banks of the Dnieper River. In his statement on the conflict in South Ossetia, Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate, praised Georgia as ''one of the world's first nations to adopt Christianity as an official religion.''
 The history of the two churches is long and intertwined. In 1801 Russia annexed Georgia, then seeking protection from Persia, and absorbed its church. It abolished the Georgian patriarchate, which was restored, at least nominally, after the Bolsheviks came to power. 
 From czarist times through the Soviet era, Georgian clergy trained in Russia and Kiev. In Soviet times, Georgia became a refuge for Orthodox monks persecuted in Russia, said Nikolai Mitrokhin, a specialist on the Orthodox Church in the former Soviet Union. 
 ''For Georgia, Russia is this love-hate relationship,'' said Tamara Grdzelidze, a Georgian theologian, trained at Oxford, who now works at the World Council of Churches headquarters in Geneva. She edited an English-language history of the Orthodox Church of Georgia. 
 The latest conflict has stirred ambivalent memories on both sides, she said. 
 ''Our patriarch was educated in Russia, and this is the best he knows and he respects it highly,'' she said. ''When Russia annexed Georgia in the beginning of the 19th century,'' she said, ''it abolished the king, it abolished the patriarch in 1811, it persecuted the Georgian language at all levels, including the church.'' 
 Whatever the tugs of unity, the two churches have tended to side with their national governments. 
 Last week, Patriarch Ilia of Georgia appealed unsuccessfully to Mr. Medvedev and Mr. Putin to refrain from recognizing South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent states. ''This will give rise to separatism in your country, and in the future you will have many more problems than we have in Georgia today,'' he said, according to the Interfax news agency. ''This is worth meditating upon.'' 
 The Russian church was tepid about the Russian government's recognition of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 
 ''The Moscow Patriarchate must take political realities into account,'' said the Rev. Nikolai Balashov, the church's secretary for inter-Orthodox relations. But in resolving canonical jurisdiction over the two disputed territories, he said that ''dialogue with the Georgian church'' was more important. The Orthodox congregations in those territories would not necessarily come under Moscow's jurisdiction, he said. 
 ''This is an especially painful situation for us because four Orthodox peoples are in conflict,'' said Deacon Andrei Kuraev, an outspoken Russian Orthodox missionary noted for his Web site, his books and his sermons at rock concerts by bands that have embraced Orthodoxy. He said that Orthodox segments of South Ossetia's and Abkhazia's populations did not wish to be under the Orthodox Church in Georgia. 
 Mr. Mitrokhin, the church scholar, said that while the Russian church was imperial at heart, it had little to gain in the current conflict. ''It is the first time in a couple of decades that the foreign policy interests of the Russian Orthodox Church diverged with those of the state,'' he said. 
 Ms. Grdzelidze, the Georgian theologian, predicted that Moscow would inevitably dominate. ''They use all means, and the church is one of the means,'' she said. ''They did it before in history. They will do it again. I have no doubt about it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Georgian Orthodox church, left, and a Russian Orthodox church in Tbilisi, the Georgian capital. Georgia became a Christian nation centuries before Russia did.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Georgian man given bread in August by an Orthodox monk in Gori, a Georgian city briefly occupied by Russian forces.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DIMITAR DILKOFF/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); BOMBINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); APPEALS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); AIR FORCES (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ROME, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) GEORGIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UKRAINE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



119 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Angolans Go to the Polls

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
More than eight million people -- nearly half of the population -- have registered to vote in war-ravaged Angola, a country with an abundance of oil, diamonds and grinding poverty that held its first election in 16 years on Friday.
 The last election, in 1992, degenerated into another decade of the civil war that uprooted millions of Angolans. In contrast, Friday's legislative vote follows six years of peace and is expected to go fairly smoothly. Jardo Muekalia, representative for electoral issues in the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, the rebel movement turned opposition party, said the campaign had been an imperfect but positive development in Angola's fratricidal history. 
 ''Democracy is a process, not a destination, and this is part of that process,'' Mr. Muekalia said.
 Initial news reports from Luanda, the capital, said some polling stations opened several hours later than expected and long lines of voters built up.
 Western diplomats and election observers are heralding Friday's vote as a potentially important step toward democracy. But civic and human rights groups, as well as opposition officials, contend that the governing party, the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, known as the MPLA, has compromised the fairness of the election by abusing its control of state resources, especially with propaganda on the national radio and television networks.
 The real test of the party's commitment to democracy is likely to come next year, when Angola is expected to elect a president, who is the dominant power center in the government. Jose Eduardo dos Santos, who has held the office for 29 years, is expected to run again.
 Unlike the violent election season in nearby Zimbabwe, where President Robert Mugabe was fighting for his political survival after 28 years in power, Mr. dos Santos's public remarks during the campaign display his confidence that his party will increase its majority in Parliament this year. 
 With Angola's economy booming, its leadership's desire for greater international legitimacy probably influenced the decision to go ahead with the long-delayed balloting and to welcome Western election observers who were shunned in Zimbabwe, analysts said. The party is campaigning on a platform of restoring peace and rebuilding the shattered country. ''We have increased the creation of jobs and economic growth,'' said Manuel Fragata de Morais, information secretary for the party in Luanda, the capital. ''And we are working very hard at a just partition of income.''
 Angola is pumping almost two million barrels of oil a day, rivaling Nigeria as Africa's largest producer. China and the United States are its biggest oil customers. It is the world's fourth largest producer of diamonds. But its bad reputation is hard to shake.
 Angola's elite has long been criticized for enriching itself at the expense of the country's impoverished citizens, a perception reflected in Angola's consistent ranking among the world's most corrupt nations. And after four decades of conflict -- first against the colonial power, Portugal, followed by civil war -- malnutrition, poverty and illiteracy are still common.
 ''These elections are very important for Angola because they want international credibility,'' said Francisco Ribeiro Telles, Portugal's ambassador to Angola, who called Friday's vote a turning point for the country. ''They want to be legitimized by the popular vote. Angola is thinking that they can play in the region an important role in economic and political fields.''
 And, indeed, Angola seems to be getting some recognition. The American ambassador to Angola, Dan Mozena, issued a statement last week thanking the government for inviting the United States to observe its election, which he said was expected to be ''peaceful and credible.''
 Luisa Morgantini, who leads the European Union's mission of 120 election observers, offered a generally positive assessment. ''There is room for many political parties to run for election,'' she said. ''They can make their own propaganda freely and their own campaigns.''
 Researchers and economists are also giving the government some credit for reducing inflation in one of the world's fastest-growing economies, and for rebuilding roads and removing land mines so that more than three million people displaced by war could go home. In recent years, China has provided billions of dollars in concessionary, oil-backed loans that have fueled a construction boom in schools, hospitals, roads, bridges and other infrastructure.
 ''They want to be treated as a stable, high-growth, emerging economy, not as a nasty, oil-rich place that steals large sums of money and represses its people,'' said J. Stephen Morrison, director of the Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 Some critics of the government worry that it is getting too much credit. Human Rights Watch issued a report last month saying that the intimidation of opposition parties and journalists and sporadic assaults by MPLA supporters in rural areas against Unita members, among other factors, threatened prospects for a free and fair vote. 
 And Fernando Macedo, president of the Association for Justice, Peace and Democracy, an Angolan civic group, said he worried that Western countries cared more about whether Angola was stable enough to keep the oil flowing than whether it became a real democracy, which he said required much more than an uneventful day of voting.
 The governing party has violated laws requiring equal access to the state media, which control what information people in rural areas receive, he said. He said he had seen bicycles, televisions and radios handed out at MPLA political rallies shown on television. The election observers must witness the problems as well as the progress, he said.
 ''There are people here who want democracy, the rule of law and a government that is accountable to the people,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); POLITICS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (99%); ZIMBABWE (93%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



120 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: A Public-Private Partnership on Health Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Where's the Prosperity?'' (editorial, Aug. 27): 
 The latest Census Bureau report confirms what health care providers and workers see every day: with 45.7 million still uninsured, America's health care system is failing our nation.
 As your editorial noted, last year's slight coverage expansion was due to higher enrollment in publicly financed programs; what will happen if states don't receive federal support for their safety net programs and follow through on threatened cuts? 
 The Institute of Medicine has estimated that the poor health and shorter lifespan of the uninsured cost the United States economy tens to hundreds of billions annually. We simply cannot afford the slow-motion collapse of our health care system. We have both a moral and a financial obligation to fix this problem. 
 We must forge a public-private partnership of government, labor leaders, health care providers and workers, and business leaders to guarantee affordable and accessible health care coverage for all Americans within a health care system that aggressively promotes improved quality and efficiency. 
 As a coalition of health care providers and health care workers, we commit our support to the next president and Congress to pursue this reform. America can't afford anything less. 
 George Halvorson Dennis Rivera Kenneth Raske New York, Aug. 29, 2008
 The writers are, respectively, chairman, secretary and board member of the Partnership for Quality Care. Mr. Halvorson is chief executive of Kaiser Permanente; Mr. Rivera is chairman of SEIU Healthcare; and Mr. Raske is president and chief executive, Greater New York Hospital Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (94%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); CENSUS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); WRITERS (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (91%); AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



121 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Rose as Delinquencies Eased in Quarter

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Home foreclosures hit a record in the second quarter, but in a sign of improvement, the number of borrowers falling behind on payments dropped for the first time in more than two years, according to a report released Friday. 
 The report from the Mortgage Bankers Association also showed that while default rates eased somewhat among subprime loans, which were made to borrowers with blemished or limited credit histories, they continued to climb for the much bigger group of prime loans. 
 Analysts said the increase in foreclosures and rising unemployment suggested that the housing market would remain under pressure well into next year.
 About 2.75 percent of all home loans, or about 1.75 million mortgages, were in foreclosure at the end of June, up from 2.47 percent in March. That was the highest foreclosure rate since 1979, when the Mortgage Bankers first collected the data. 
 The number of loans that were past due by less than three months fell to 4.58 percent, from 4.72 percent, the first decline since the start of 2006. Foreclosure rates were highest in California, Florida, Michigan, Nevada and Ohio. 
 Analysts and industry officials offered several explanations for the decline in delinquencies. The $100 billion in federal tax rebates that were sent out in the spring and early summer probably helped some families pay their bills, while efforts to modify adjustable rate loans may have helped others.
 But the economic stimulus from the rebates appears to be wearing off, and the job market is weakening faster. The Labor Department reported on Friday that the unemployment rate climbed to 6.1 percent in August, up from 5.7 percent in July.
 ''The data over all still suggests that mortgage quality is weak, and I would expect that there will be further weakening and foreclosures that occur before the housing market improves,'' said Celia Chen, director of housing research at Moody'sEconomy.com.
 A crucial concern is the fate of prime loans, which account for most home mortgages outstanding. Delinquencies on these loans have been rising fast over the last year and a half, and many analysts are worried they could climb higher because many borrowers with interest-only and other creative loans may not be able to make the higher principal and interest payments when their favorable introductory terms end. 
 At the end of June, 5.35 percent of prime loans were past due or in foreclosure, up from 4.93 in March. By contrast, 30.48 percent of subprime loans were past due or in foreclosure, up from 29.53 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAX RELIEF (66%); EMPLOYMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



122 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Wanted

 BODY:
Job losses in August were both deep and wide, and unemployment rose to 6.1 percent, the highest rate in nearly five years. Out-of-work Americans need more help from Washington to get through these very hard times, which show no signs of letting up. On Friday, officials said that the government was getting ready to seize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the troubled mortgage-finance giants. 
 The economic pain and job woes hit workers in nearly every sector and education group -- from adults with less than a high school education to college graduates. Joblessness also rose sharply among Hispanics and African-American women.
 We fear there is a vicious cycle in the making. As consumer spending weakens, employers are cutting jobs and hours. As jobs are cut and unemployment rises, consumer spending is sure to weaken further. 
 Congress must respond -- soon -- by extending unemployment compensation for jobless workers whose payouts are set to run out. Basic state benefits usually last for 26 weeks, and they were extended in June to a total of 39 weeks. If Congress does not act before early October, 800,000 unemployed people will stop getting much-needed checks. 
 The last extension was a hard-fought compromise, with Democrats arguing that out-of-work Americans needed more time to find a job while many Republicans argued that conditions were not dire enough to warrant an extension. 
 A worthy bill, now being prepared by House Democrats, would extend benefits for up to a total of 46 weeks. It would also give states with high unemployment -- at or above 6 percent -- authority to extend benefits for up to 52 weeks. 
 Currently, the District of Columbia and 13 states -- including California, Michigan, Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina -- have unemployment rates over 6 percent. 
 Lawmakers must also think about jobs this month when they consider another bill to stimulate the economy. Tax rebates were the centerpiece of the last stimulus bill, but a better approach is to target areas that need the most help and projects with the biggest potential return. 
 That argues for more direct aid to states and local governments so that they can sustain ongoing construction projects -- or begin new ones -- and continue to provide crucial services, like health care and subsidized school lunches, during the downturn. 
 The Congressional calendar is tight. With an eye on re-election, many politicians will be tempted to send out more checks to as many people as possible. That could boost spending temporarily or help people pay down debts that have become onerous. But it won't help provide Americans what they really need: secure jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX RELIEF (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



123 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Union Leader's Legacy May Be Hard to Match

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Basil E. Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, enjoys a public profile in Canada that arguably has not been matched by his American counterparts since the days of Walter P. Reuther and Jimmy Hoffa.
 That comes in part from the higher level of union membership in Canada. But Mr. Hargrove's regular appearances on television and in newspaper articles often have nothing to do with the union's latest negotiations. During his 16 years as the union's president, which come to an end with his retirement on Saturday, Mr. Hargrove has become a frequently outspoken and sometimes bombastic champion for a wide range of social, political and economic issues and a fierce critic of free trade.
 The media celebrity of Mr. Hargrove, who is known as Buzz, played a role in expanding the C.A.W.'s membership and maintaining its status as the country's largest union of nongovernment workers. But Mr. Hargrove readily acknowledged in an interview that the union he leaves behind will be grappling with an unprecedented crisis in its key industry. 
 ''Today the auto industry is a shell of itself,'' Mr. Hargrove said. ''My problem is that I don't see any end in sight to the bad news.''
 Despite the broad decline of the Detroit-based automakers, the Canadian union's membership has risen to 265,000 members from 112,00 when Mr. Hargrove took office. To achieve that, Mr. Hargrove combined equal measures of intellect, pugnacity, charisma and a willingness to take on unfashionable causes. It has not always brought him admiration, however. Some of Mr. Hargrove's most severe critics come from other unions.
 Matching Mr. Hargrove's success and maintaining his public profile, however, may be a tall order for his likely successor, Ken Lewenza. He is not a national figure but president of the local that represents workers at the sprawling Chrysler Canada assembly line in Windsor, Ontario, where Mr. Hargrove got his start in both the industry and the union.
 Mr. Hargrove's career has tracked the fortunes of Canada's auto industry. When he started at Chrysler in 1964, high Canadian tariffs effectively blocked the entry of cars made in the United States. As a result, Mr. Hargrove worked on a highly inefficient assembly line that produced 14 different models simultaneously.
 The next year, however, Canada and the United States signed an auto trade agreement. Under it, Canada dropped its tariffs on the condition that the United States buy an equivalent amount of autos and auto parts from Canada as it exported to that country. Suddenly made efficient, the Canadian industry expanded rapidly.
 Four decades and numerous international trade agreements later, Mr. Hargrove still promotes managed trade as the answer to the Detroit-based automakers' problems in Canada.
 ''It's not inevitable,'' Mr. Hargrove said of the industry's demise. ''But we're allowing our market to be undermined by offshore producers in countries like Japan and South Korea that close their markets to our products.''
 Some critics of Mr. Hargrove say that his call for import restraints comes from his union's lack of success at organizing workers at plants in Canada owned by Toyota and Honda and their parts suppliers based in Japan.
 The North American integration of the industry also created strains within the United Automobile Workers union, which represented employees in both countries when Mr. Hargrove first walked into Chrysler. Disputes over bargaining strategies between the Canadian branch and the U.A.W. in Detroit ultimately led several members, including Mr. Hargrove, to lead a campaign that resulted in creation of the separate Canadian union in 1984, with Mr. Hargrove acting as the assistant to its founding president, Robert White.
 Since then, Mr. Hargrove has been highly critical of the American union's decision to grant wage and benefit concessions to automakers, something the Canadian union has largely avoided.
 ''We've rejected the idea somehow that we can buy job security, and we've certainly rejected the idea of selling the logic of the marketplace to the members,'' Mr. Hargrove said. Mr. Hargrove has used that concept to expand the ranks of his union. It is a major part of his often successful sales pitch to Canadian branches of other unions based in the United States to merge with the auto workers. But it is a tactic that rankles many in the labor movement, particularly members of the United Steelworkers of America union.
 David Goutor, an assistant professor of labor studies at McMaster University, in Hamilton, Ontario, said that Mr. Hargrove's rejection of economic globalism has played an important role in raising his profile within Canada.
 ''One of Hargrove's biggest successes is that he is very good at making these things seem like irrational political decisions rather than rational economic choices,'' Professor Goutor said.
 In the long run, however, Mr. Hargrove's legacy may also become the union's greatest headache.
 Tony Faria, the director of the office of automotive research at the University of Windsor, estimates that because of the concessions granted by the American union, hourly wages and benefit costs at Canadian auto plants will be about $25 to $28 an hour higher than at factories in the United States by about 2011. It is a situation, he added, that will obviously make future investment more attractive in the United States.
 Mr. Hargrove, however, said he was confident that his approach to bargaining remained superior, even in the long run.
 ''If you want to cut wages or give up everything you've gained in the past to try and save a job, you don't need a union to do that,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Basil E. Hargrove, left, president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, with his likely successor, Ken Lewenza. Mr. Hargrove battled free trade and expanded union membership.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIBOR KOLLEY/GLOBE AND MAIL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CELEBRITIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



124 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Withstand Jump in Jobless Rate

BYLINE: BY MATTHEW SALTMARSH and KEITH BRADSHER; Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Trading on Wall Street was mixed on Friday, with the Dow the S.&P. 500 closing up and the Nasdaq falling a few points. The mild trading came a day after concerns about the economy, and in particular the labor market, sent the Dow down 344.65 points.
 Markets in Europe and Asia ended the day lower.
 Wall Street recovered Friday afternoon from a sharp decline in early trading, which came after the government reported that the unemployment rate in August had jumped to 6.1 percent -- a five-year high -- and the economy had lost 84,000 jobs. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 32.73 points, or 0.29 percent, to 11220.96. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.44 percent or 5.48 points, to 1,242.31, while the Nasdaq fell 0.14 percent, or 3.16 points. to 2,255.88. 
 The dollar weakened slightly against the euro on Friday, but rose against the yen.
 Investors continued to find little comfort in the drop in crude oil prices, which fell $1.66 to settle at $106.23 a barrel in New York trading.
 The decline in Europe was led by banks, amid fears that further capital raising would be required, and semiconductor stocks, which would be adversely affected by the weaker global outlook.
 ''This market is very, very unstable at the moment,' said Philippe Gijsels, senior equity strategist at Fortis Global Markets in Brussels. ''The credit crunch is continuing; that's hitting earnings. It seems logical to retest the lows.''
 By mid-afternoon Friday, the European markets shifted lower on the jobs news. The DAX index closed down 2.4 percent in Frankfurt, while the broader European DJ Stoxx 600 dropped 2.1 percent. In Asia, the Nikkei 225 index in Tokyo closed down 2.75 percent, the Shanghai A-share market dropped 3.3 percent and the Australian market declined 2.1 percent.
 Also hit in Friday's trading was the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong, which tumbled 2.2 percent and fell below 20,000 for the first time in 17 months. Goldman Sachs this week announced that it was reducing its forecast for the territory's economic growth to 4.2 percent this year and 4 percent next year, from previous estimates of 5.2 percent and 5 percent respectively.
 Asian stock markets have fallen every day this week. Particularly troubling for many investors has been a sharp increase in the volatility of currencies, which has made the returns on cross-border investments even more volatile.
 The yen has surged even more against the euro than the dollar. The euro has been hit by fears on the outlook in Europe, while the yen climbed as investors unwind so-called carry trades that had previously used yen to buy assets in higher yielding currencies like the Australian dollar, analysts said.
 ''People are wondering what market might be next,'' the chief Asia-Pacific equity strategist for HSBC, Garry Evans, said.
 Earnings per share are barely growing in many Asian stock markets, and were actually down from a year earlier during the second quarter in at least five markets. Many business people and economists worry that Asian exports could slow sharply in the months ahead as Europe appears to have joined the United States in an economic slump.
 In Europe, fragile confidence has been dented by fears a recession and no hint of lower interest rates from the European Central Bank. 
 In New York on Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted on a confluence of poor news about the economy, although investors could not pin the drop on any overriding reason.
 Reports showed that retail sales were weak last month, just as more Americans filed for unemployment benefits. Anxiety lingered about a global slowdown. Fears of another financial crisis refused to go away.
 ''Boy, it's hard to say,'' Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman, said when asked about a reason for the decline. ''All of us were scratching our heads. Why today?''
 Speculation ran rampant that some major hedge funds were rapidly selling assets; Atticus Capital, a $14 billion hedge fund based in New York, was forced to issue a statement denying that it was shutting down. 
 S.& P. cut the credit ratings of two prominent regional banks, National City and First Horizon National, on concerns about credit and losses related to subprime mortgages.
 Bill Gross, the head of Pacific Investment Management, said banks were at risk of a coming ''financial tsunami.''
 The Labor Department reported Thursday that the number of Americans who filed initial claims for unemployment benefits last week rose to 444,000, near a five-year high. And many retailers said that sales were weak in August, as consumers opted to shop at discount stores. 
 Meanwhile, rather than being greeted as a relief for consumers, the decline in oil prices this week is being seen as a sign of weaker demand.
 In Europe, the decline was led by chip makers and banks. STMicrolectronics, the largest semiconductor maker in the region, lost 3 percent after UBS cut its recommendation. The brokerage also slashed its 2009 revenue-growth forecast for semiconductors worldwide to 4 percent from 8 percent previously.
 ASML, a manufacturer of semiconductor equipment, lost 1.9 percent. Infineon, another maker of semiconductors, slipped 1.3 percent.
 Banks were damaged by fears that reluctant investors would have to be asked to raise capital for some time. On Thursday the French bank Natixis said that it would sell new shares at a 61 percent discount to raise 3.7 billion euros to cover write-downs. On Friday, Barclays, the British bank, declined 2.2 percent.
 And Goldman Sachs predicted that consumption spending in Hong Kong will grow more slowly than previously expected, as residents feel less affluent because of falling share prices and weakening demand for workers.
 Investment banks have already been laying off workers in some departments, although not on the scale of layoffs in New York or London. Hiring continues in some categories of financial services, notably for employees with expertise in transactions in mainland China.
 Asian stock market analysts were divided on how much longer share prices might fall.
 Francis Lun, the general manager of Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong, said that investor confidence was collapsing around the globe in response to slowdowns in the economies of the United States, the European Union and Japan. ''We don't see any light at the end of the tunnel, there is no silver lining in any cloud right now,'' Mr. Lun said.
 Andrew To, the sales and research director for Taifook Securities Company in Hong Kong, was more optimistic, pointing out that Hong Kong's stock market has already lost two-fifths of its value since reaching a record of 31,958.41 on Oct. 30 last year. ''Personally, I see this as a golden buying opportunity,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); EURO (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (72%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



125 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Amalgamated Insurance Is Moving to Westchester

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Amalgamated Life Insurance, a company founded by union textile workers in Greenwich Village 65 years ago, is moving its headquarters and more than 400 employees to Westchester County.
 The chief executive of Amalgamated, David J. Walsh, said on Friday that the company planned to move to an office building in White Plains next month from its longtime home at 730 Broadway, at Waverly Place. The deal was struck this week, and the company has already posted jobs in White Plains on the Internet.
 The many company employees who live in Queens and Brooklyn will have a difficult commute to White Plains. 
 The departure of Amalgamated is a blow to the Bloomberg administration, which had offered the insurance company tax breaks and about $750,000 in cash to remain in Manhattan. The good news, city officials said, is that Amalgamated did not move to Newark, one of the other locations it considered. But they insisted that the company's decision did not herald a new round of corporate migration from the city.
 ''Our economy is inextricably hitched to the state economy,'' said Robert C. Lieber, deputy mayor for economic development. ''It's better than losing them to somewhere else, although I wish they'd stayed in New York City.''
 Still, Amalgamated's decision is somewhat odd, given that unions have often criticized corporations for abandoning the city. Amalgamated was founded in 1943 by the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, which later merged with the Textile Workers Union of America. That organization merged with the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to become the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees (Unite) and that group eventually joined with the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union (Here) to become Unite Here.
 Mr. Walsh said that the company's lease at its Greenwich Village headquarters, a building now owned by New York University, is coming to an end. Amalgamated looked at alternatives in Newark and in Lower Manhattan, including 55 Water Street, and both New York and New Jersey tried to lure the company with offers of tax breaks, lower rent or cash.
 The company, however, chose Westchester. And on Thursday, the Westchester County Industrial Development Agency formally agreed to provide Amalgamated with a sales tax exemption worth about $480,000 to renovate its new space at 333 Westchester Avenue in White Plains.
 ''We were blessed with a number of very good choices and chose in the end this space in White Plains,'' Mr. Walsh said, adding that the company might lease space in Manhattan for business meetings.
 But New York City's loss is Westchester's gain. The county's economy has weakened, and the vacancy rate at first-class office buildings is more than 16 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate broker. Rents are about half of those in Manhattan. Westchester officials said they were elated about the move and the new jobs.
 ''I think it's a great boon for Westchester, and White Plains in particular,'' said Charles S. Cohen, Amalgamated's new landlord.
 Amalgamated is moving to the former headquarters of General Foods, a company that moved from Manhattan to White Plains in the 1950s. More recently, Ameriquest Mortgage Company leased and renovated the White Plains space, but it fell victim to the subprime mortgage crisis and never moved in. Mr. Cohen said he had landed ''a great fish'' for his corporate center.
 Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, warned that other companies would be looking for less expensive alternatives in this period of consolidation.
 ''We have to anticipate that the financial services industry will be looking to move employees to areas that have significantly lower costs than Manhattan office buildings,'' Ms. Wylde said. ''We should be thankful that his company stayed in New York State.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARMENT WORKERS (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TEXTILES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); MAYORS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COUNTIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TAX LAW (74%); CITIES (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); SALES TAX (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); APPAREL MFG (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: AMALGAMATED LIFE INSURANCE CO (59%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (59%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (50%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



126 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Making a Business of Family Loans

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

 BODY:
AS banks tighten lending standards, alternative sources like Virgin Money USA are stepping into the breach. Last year, Richard Branson, chairman of the Virgin Group, acquired a majority stake in the company, formerly called CircleLending. Unlike a traditional bank, which pools its available lending funds from various sources, Virgin Money organizes and processes loans among family, friends and business associates. The company says it has originated $350 million in loans since 2001 and has grown 75 percent in the last 11 months. 
 Asheesh Advani, the president and chief executive of Virgin Money, recently discussed the impact that the turmoil in the credit, housing and student loan markets was having on his business. Following are excerpts from the interview. 
 Q. What was the impetus to start Virgin Money? What was your intention?
 A. I had worked at World Bank and had the idea to create a company to manage informal finance. The origins were inspired by some market research on the number of transactions among friends, family and business associates. We discovered that the volume in the United States was $89 billion in person-to-person loan transactions.
 Q. How has the recent upheaval in the credit markets influenced your lending practices?
 A. It's encouraged borrowers to consider alternatives to traditional lenders. They care more about the interest rate they're paying.
 Two years ago, if business borrowers were looking at sources of financing, they had a few options. Today they have no options if they are a start-up and very few options if they've been in business and have a mediocre credit score.
 I think it's also encouraged potential lenders who are affluent individuals to recognize that they can get 6 to 8 percent by loaning money to their kids rather than 2 to 3 percent in the bank. 
 Q. There are always going to be some who are reluctant to be in debt to their family and friends. How have you been able to overcome that resistance?
 A. We make people realize that having that awkward conversation can save you thousands of dollars and keep the interest in the family.
 Q. How do you make money?
 A. We have a loan setup fee, which starts at $99 for a basic unsecured loan and goes up to $699 for mortgages. We charge $9 per payment to administer the loan -- either by quarter, per month or annually, depending on how they repay the loan. 
 Q. How has the increasing popularity of social sites like MySpace, LinkedIn and Facebook influenced your growth?
 A. We believe we are part of a trend, which we call social finance. It capitalizes on the connectedness of individuals. In the future, we believe this will also translate into social savings. Groups of individuals will help you save toward a goal like buying a home, like starting a business, like saving for your kid's education. It's the next-generation 529 plan. 
 Q. There have been reports that lenders have stopped offering federal student loans to some colleges and are making it tougher for less creditworthy borrowers to qualify for private college loans. What was the reason you decided to enter the student loan market?
 A. We believe there is an enormous opportunity for Virgin Money to help students and their families. For example, parents can borrow money through federal programs like PLUS loans at a lower rate than students can borrow from private lending sources. We can help the family get the best deal and their student can repay parents in a flexible manner after graduation. 
 Q. Recently, Fynanz.com and Greennote.com entered the market to focus exclusively on student lending. Where do you see the student lending market heading?
 A. It's a national challenge to find ways to fund the higher and higher costs of education. The returns on education are clear, but they are not distributed across the full spectrum of type of major, geography of student and credit score. The underwriting models in financial services are so focused on just the credit score that it doesn't translate well to the student loan financing market. You can't just score the parent and score the student and magically understand the credit worthiness of the applicant. We believe that character-based loans, where people know the student, do make a contribution to helping the proper underwriting of the creditworthiness of a student. 
 Q. Are mortgages also character-based?
 A. We have two products in mortgage: a family mortgage and a retirement mortgage, which is a reverse mortgage.
 A family mortgage enables kids to get a loan from their parents at a lower rate than they could get from the bank. We say you should combine that with a traditional first mortgage so that your blended rate is better than you can get from anybody else. You deduct the interest payments you make to your parents just like you can deduct the interest payments you make to a bank. 
 Q. There has been concern in the mortgage markets about home equity lines of credit. What is the prospect for a reverse mortgage when there is so much uncertainty?
 A. We introduced a product we call a retirement mortgage. It allows the adult kids and the retired parents to do a deal among themselves and keep the home within the family. It's at least 50 percent cheaper than a bank reverse mortgage. 
 Q. How do you figure that?
 A. Bank reverse mortgages start at $10,000 in cost, and our product is a couple thousand dollars plus $9 a month. All and all, it will be less than 50 percent of the cost of a bank reverse mortgage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Asheesh Advani 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (83%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN MONEY PERSONAL FINANCIAL SERVICE LTD (90%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (58%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



127 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Risky Loans Hurt Lender In California

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
When Maurice L. McAlister set out to build houses for soldiers returning from World War II, he put an ad in a local newspaper that read: ''Money Wanted.'' 
 Today the Downey Financial Corporation, the big California savings and loan that Mr. McAlister went on to help found, has effectively put up the same sign. 
 Downey has been racked by the mortgage crisis, and on Friday, federal regulators ordered it to shore up its finances. The Office of Thrift Supervision, which oversees the $13 billion institution, told Downey to provide a detailed plan to reduce its assets and strengthen management. 
 The 83-year-old Mr. McAlister, who was pushed out by the board and officially resigned in July as bank chairman after 50 years at its helm, remains Downey's largest shareholder, with 20 percent of its stock. But he and his investors have lost a fortune this year as Downey's share price has plunged. Even after surging by a third on Friday, amid a broad rally in financial shares, Downey is still down 90 percent this year. 
 At the heart of Downey's troubles are so-called option adjustable-rate mortgages, some of the riskiest home loans ever created. With option ARMs, lenders like Downey offered homebuyers temptingly low initial interest rates and let them choose how much to pay each month. The less borrowers paid, the more the lenders tacked onto the balance. 
 But now, with home prices sinking and the economy struggling, homeowners are defaulting on option ARMs in growing numbers as the loans reset at higher rates. As a result, Downey, which is based in Newport Beach, Calif., has been hobbled by bad loans. 
 Many mortgage lenders face similar problems. But Downey's troubles demonstrate how the bank, which has been controlled by Mr. McAlister and his family for decades and suffered from manager turnover in recent years, grew out of touch with changing times. 
 While even his critics say that Mr. McAlister was a decent and dedicated executive, he was a strong leader who failed to create a strong management team. After he stepped down as chief executive in 1991, there was series of management turnovers. The longest-lasting chief executive was Mr. McAlister's former son-in-law, Daniel Rosenthal. 
 Some board members, including Michael Abrahams and Lester Smull, as well as representatives from the Office of Thrift Supervision had pressured Mr. McAlister as much as five years ago to reduce the bank's exposure to option ARM loans, according to one person familiar with the discussions, but Mr. McAlister was reluctant to do so. 
 A spokeswoman for Downey said it would not comment. Mr. Abrahams declined to comment, as did a spokesman for the thrift regulator. Mr. Smull did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
 The decision to stay the course with option ARM loans was perilous because by the end of 2007, just as the housing market began crumbling, 69 percent of Downey's residential loans were option loans. 
 To be sure, many bankers got themselves into trouble for big real estate lending, but few find themselves with 15 percent of their assets in nonperforming assets as Downey now does. 
 ''At a closely held bank, there is something important that is missing, and it is stock market discipline,'' said Bert Ely, an independent consultant in the banking industry. 
 ''When a public company gets pounded by the market, on average it leads to change,'' Mr. Ely said. ''But if the bank has pursued a business strategy, and there is a call for change, there can be a tendency for greater resistance to doing what is necessary because it threatens the controlling shareholder's ego since he put the plan in place.'' 
 Mr. McAlister sees the past somewhat differently.
 ''With the benefit of hindsight, there are lots of people who have comments to make,'' he said recently in a telephone interview from his home in Bullhead City, Ariz. ''I don't know if anybody would have known that the price of houses would go down 30 percent. Nobody would have known that so everybody did it.''
 Mr. McAlister apparently had no insight into the looming problems of the real estate markets. Just a year ago, he told The Orange County Business Journal, ''We have a little bit of a problem, but not very much.'' 
 And he believes today that he had little choice but to run the bank as he did. ''When you are in a business, no one company can make the market,'' he said. ''You play the market, and practically all of Wall Street and all the bankers were playing the same game.'' As to why so much of Downey's business was concentrated in option ARM loans, ''We were a savings and loan, and 65 percent of the loans have to be single-family loans.'' 
 However, according to the Office of Thrift Supervision, the bank could have diversified somewhat into other consumer loans, from credit cards to auto loans. 
 For sure the lending business had become highly competitive in the last several years, and Downey found itself competing against Golden West, the Countrywide Financial Corporation and Washington Mutual.
 ''But doing what everyone else is doing is a very poor excuse,'' Mr. Ely said. ''Thrifts have traditionally focused on home lending, but that did not mean Downey had to be so heavily in option ARM loans.''
 Option ARM loans are particularly risky for lenders because they enable borrowers to defer payments on interest as well as principal. Many banks found a bonanza in these loans, when full interest expense can be counted as interest income by the bank, whether or not the bank received the money. Not only was Downey involved in those loans, they were virtually all in California, a market that has suffered one of the worst real estate reversals in the country. The risk was that when home prices declined and borrowers could not refinance, they would walk away.
 Mr. McAlister, known as Mac, was clearly behind the drive to move into option ARM loans, recalled Dennis Aigner, the former dean of the graduate school of management at the University of California, Irvine, who served on the Downey board from 1994 to 1998. So active was the bank in that sector that by 2003, option ARM loans accounted for 73 percent of the bank's single-family lending portfolio, which accounted for the vast bulk of the bank's loans. 
 Perhaps a tougher management would have pressed for diversification. ''It is a textbook example of where good professional management should have been given the latitude to operate and they never were,'' Mr. Aigner said. ''Mac never used an executive search firm to fill key positions. I came from a business school background, and was of the opinion that when you hired outside management, you do a search,'' he said. ''But he wanted people whom he could trust. At Downey, they just said, 'Here is the guy that Mac wants, so O.K.' ''
 The only executive who lasted and remained in Mr. McAlister's favor was his former son-in-law, Mr. Rosenthal, who spent his entire professional career at Downey. ''Mac had three daughters and no sons, and Dan became like a son to him,'' said one person who requested anonymity because of a close relationship with the family. 
 But few analysts think that Mr. Rosenthal would have risen to the top at a company where he was not a family member. ''If there had been an executive search, he would not have made it,'' said one analyst who requested anonymity because he deals with the company.
 Mr. Rosenthal did not return phone calls seeking comment. Mr. McAlister defended his choices saying, ''No matter what kind of company it is, you should have smart people, and if they are family people, it does not matter.'' 
 By 2006 Downey had started cutting backing on loan originations. That year it cut its loan originations by 48.2 percent, then by 51.7 percent in 2007. But even so, option ARM loans accounted for 69 percent of the bank's residential loans in 2007, though the figure had been 85 percent just a year earlier. 
 Downey's embrace of risky lending stands in stark contrast to how the bank handled the first savings and loan crisis. So healthy had the bank been that Downey was appointed to run Butterfield Savings and Loan, one of the banks that collapsed at the time. 
 But in the ensuing years Downey took a more perilous turn. ''It is the exception rather than the rule that banks with 15 percent of nonperforming asset survive in their present form,'' noted Fred Cannon, who follows Downey for Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
 In August the Office of Thrift Supervision put a number of limits on actions that Downey could take without its approval, including making dividend payments, among other things. And clearly it has strengths, including a network of 170 branches in California. 
 The bank is also looking to raise capital and said Friday that asset sales and a dividend payment had brought $109 million in new capital. And it may even be considering a sale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); HOME PRICES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%)

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%)

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



128 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rescue Seen at Hand For Two Mortgage Giants

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Stephen Labaton reported from Washington and Andrew Ross Sorkin from New York. Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting from Washington, and Eric Dash and Charles Duhigg from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senior officials from the Bush administration and the Federal Reserve on Friday called in top executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants, and told them that the government was preparing to place the two companies under federal control, officials and company executives briefed on the discussions said.
 The plan, which would place the companies into a conservatorship, was outlined in separate meetings with the chief executives at the office of the companies' new regulator. The executives were told that, under the plan, they and their boards would be replaced and shareholders would be virtually wiped out, but that the companies would be able to continue functioning with the government generally standing behind their debt, people briefed on the discussions said. 
 It is not possible to calculate the cost of any government bailout, but the huge potential liabilities of the companies could cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars and make any rescue among the largest in the nation's history. 
 The drastic effort follows the bailout this year of Bear Stearns, the investment bank, as government officials continue to grapple with how to stem the credit crisis and housing crisis that have hobbled the economy. With Bear Stearns, the government provided guarantees, and the bulk of its assets were transferred to JPMorgan Chase, leaving shareholders with a nominal amount. 
 Under a conservatorship, the common and preferred shares of Fannie and Freddie would be reduced to little or nothing, and any losses on mortgages they own or guarantee could be paid by taxpayers. Shareholders have already lost billions of dollars as the stocks have plunged more than 80 percent this year.
 A conservatorship would operate much like a pre-packaged bankruptcy, similar to what smaller companies use to clean up their books and then emerge with stronger balance sheets. It would allow for uninterrupted operation of the companies, crucial players in the diminished mortgage market, where they are now responsible for nearly 70 percent of new loans.
 The executives were told that the government had been planning to announce the decision as early as Sunday, before the Asian markets reopen, the officials said. 
 For months, administration officials have grappled with the steady erosion of the books of the two mortgage finance giants. A fierce behind-the-scenes debate among policy makers has been waged over whether to seize the companies or let them work out their problems. Even after the companies are put under government control, debates will continue over whether they should be independent and how they should operate over the long term. 
 The declines in the housing and financial markets apparently forced the administration's hand. With foreign governments increasingly skittish about holding billions of dollars in securities issued by the companies, no sign that their losses will abate any time soon, and the inability of the companies to raise new capital, the administration apparently decided it would be better to act now rather than closer to the presidential election in two months.
 Just five weeks ago, President Bush signed a law to give the administration the authority to inject billions of dollars into the companies through investments or loans. In proposing the legislation, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said that he had no plan to provide loans or investments, and that merely giving the government the authority to backstop the companies would provide a strong shot of confidence to the markets. But the thin capital reserves that have kept the two companies afloat have continued to erode as the housing market has steadily declined and the number of foreclosures has soared. 
 As their problems have deepened -- and the marketplace has come to expect some sort of government rescue -- both companies have found it difficult to raise new capital to absorb future losses. In recent weeks, Mr. Paulson has been reaching out to foreign governments that hold billions of dollars of Fannie and Freddie securities to reassure them that the United States stands behind the companies. 
 In issuing their quarterly financial statements last month, the two companies reported huge losses and predicted that home prices would fall more than previously projected. 
 The debt securities the companies issue to finance their operations are widely owned by mutual funds, pension funds, foreign governments and big companies.
 Officials said the participants at the meetings included Mr. Paulson, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, and James Lockhart, the head of both the old and new agency that regulates the companies. The companies were represented by Daniel H. Mudd, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, and Richard F. Syron, chief executive of Freddie Mac. Also participating was H. Rodgin Cohen, the chairman of the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, who was representing Fannie. 
 Officials and executives briefed on the meetings said that Mr. Mudd and Mr. Syron were told that they would have to leave the companies.
 Spokesmen at the two companies did not return telephone calls seeking comment. 
 The meetings reflected the reality that senior administration officials did not believe they could wait for some kind of financial tipping point, as happened with Bear Stearns, which was saved from insolvency in March by government intervention after its stock plummeted and lenders withheld their capital. 
 Instead, Mr. Paulson has struggled to navigate through potentially conflicting goals -- stabilizing the financial markets, making mortgages more widely available in a tightening credit environment, and protecting taxpayers from possibly enormous losses. 
 Publicly, administration officials have tried to bolster the companies because the nation's mortgage system relies on their continued ability to purchase mortgages from commercial lenders and pull the housing markets out of their slump. 
 But privately, senior officials have been critical of top executives at the companies, particularly Freddie Mac. They have raised concerns about major risks to taxpayers of a bailout of companies whose executives have received huge compensation packages. Mr. Syron, for instance, collected more than $38 million in compensation since he joined the company in 2003. 
 Although Mr. Syron promised regulators earlier this year that he would raise $5.5 billion from investors, he has failed to make good on that promise -- even as Fannie Mae raised more than $7 billion. Mr. Syron was slated to step down from the chief executive position last year, but that was delayed when his appointed successor, Eugene McQuade, chose to leave the company. 
 With the possible removal of the top management and the board, it is no longer clear who would appoint new management.
 Mr. Paulson had hoped that merely having the authority to bail out the two companies, which Congress provided in its recent housing bill, would be enough to calm the markets, but if anything anxiety has been increasing. The clearest measure of that anxiety has been the gradually widening spread between interest rates on Fannie- or Freddie-backed mortgage securities and rates for Treasury securities, making home mortgages more expensive. The stock prices of the companies have also plunged.
 After stock markets closed on Friday, the shares of Fannie and Freddie plummeted. Fannie was trading around $5.50, down from $70 a year ago. Freddie was trading at about $4, down from about $65 a year ago. 
 With Fannie and Freddie guaranteeing $5 trillion in mortgage-backed securities, and a big share of those held by central banks and investors around the world, Mr. Paulson appears to have decided that the stakes are too high to take chances. 
 The Treasury Department is required by the new law to obtain agreement from the boards of Fannie and Freddie for a capital infusion. The exception is if the companies' regulator, Mr. Lockhart, determines that the companies are insolvent or deeply undercapitalized it could take the companies over anyway. 
 Charles Calomiris, a professor of economics at Columbia Business School, said delaying a rescue would only increase the risks and costs. 
 ''The last thing you want to do is give a distressed borrower more time, because when people are in distress they tend to take a lot of risks,'' he said. ''You don't want zombie institutions floating around with time on their hands.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); COMMON STOCK (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HISTORY (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



129 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Thinking About Renewable Energy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Wind Energy Bumps Into Power Grid's Limits'' (''The Energy Challenge'' series, front page, Aug. 27): 
 In areas where the electric grid is overloaded or does not exist at all, the solar, wind or other forms of renewable energy can be stored in hydrogen. 
 When the sun is out or the wind is blowing, my reversible fuel cell can generate both electricity and hydrogen. During the night or when the unit cost of electricity is high (peak periods), it can convert the stored hydrogen back into electricity. 
 The stored hydrogen can also be transported as fuel when generated in areas where there is no electric grid, such as in the deserts of the Southwest. 
 Bela Liptak Stamford, Conn., Aug. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The quest for the low-carbon energy economy will soon outpace America's ability to move electricity from producer to consumer. It is the nation's key infrastructure challenge.
 Americans are ready to take on the challenges of climate change, alternative energy and electric vehicles. But we will not succeed without strengthening the ''electron superhighway.''
 Transmission already delivers electricity to American consumers reliably and efficiently. Additionally, it must now bring power from location-constrained clean energy resources like wind, solar, geothermal and biomass as well as from other low-carbon resources like additional nuclear plants and potential low-carbon coal generation. 
 After a quarter-century of underinvestment, with national electricity demand slated to increase by one-third in the next two decades, and the grid already tested to the limits of its capabilities, we cannot start soon enough to plan to expand and upgrade these vital facilities.
 We must ask Congress, the next administration and regulators for a long-term commitment to this critical network industry.
 James J. Hoecker Washington, Aug. 29, 2008
 The writer, a former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is counsel and adviser to Wires (Working Group for Investment in Reliable and Economic Electric Systems).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); BIOMASS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); WRITERS (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



130 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobless Rate Climbs Past 6%, Highest Since '03

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE; Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The unemployment rate jumped to 6.1 percent in August, its highest level in five years, pushing the troubles of American workers to the center of the political debate as the presidential campaign enters its final weeks.
 For the eighth consecutive month, the nation's employers shed jobs, 84,000 last month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Friday. In all, 605,000 jobs have been lost since January. The steady rise in unemployment, from 5.7 percent in July and 5 percent in April, is one that many economists associate with recession. 
 Both presidential candidates -- Senators Barack Obama and John McCain -- said through spokesmen that they would favor an economic stimulus package from Congress this fall. 
 Mr. Obama jumped on the latest report, declaring that Democrats would do more to help struggling Americans. ''You would think that George Bush and his potential Republican successor, John McCain, would be spending a lot of time worrying about the economy and all these jobs that are being lost on their watch,'' he said at a campaign stop in Duryea, Pa. But, ''if you watched the Republican National Convention over the last three days, you wouldn't know that we have the highest unemployment rate in five years.'' 
 Mr. McCain issued a brief statement in which he said that ''Americans are hurting and we must act to create jobs.'' He added that ''as president, I will enact a jobs for America economic plan that creates jobs, helps small businesses, expands opportunities and opens markets to American goods.'' 
 Even though the economy continued to expand in the first half of the year, tell-tale signs of a recession -- either in progress or soon to strike -- are spreading. Consumers have curtailed their spending, the housing market continues to deteriorate, banks are reluctant to lend, consumer confidence is slipping and European and Asian economies are slowing, depriving the United States of a lift from abroad.
 ''The mood of the country as far as the economy is concerned is depressed,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist for Global Insight, ''and that is what it should be.''
 The last stimulus package pumped more than $160 billion into the economy, mostly in the form of tax rebate checks distributed in the spring and early summer to tens of millions of Americans. 
 ''That stimulus did not jump start a recovery, which was the hope when it was passed,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com and an economic adviser to Mr. McCain. ''And so here we are again talking about another stimulus package, right in the middle of an election campaign.''
 McCain's advisers said that while he favors using tax incentives to stimulate the economy, he would consider something similar to the last stimulus package, an advantage being that Congress might approve it quickly.
 The Obama camp urged Congress to enact the $50 billion stimulus package that the senator recently proposed. Most of the money would go to states and cities, ''so they don't have to cut back on health care and education and can rebuild roads and schools,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement.
 In their response to this latest employment report, the two candidates appeared to be emphasizing what they would do to give the economy a quick lift, while pushing into the background, at least for the moment, their longer-term economic proposals. The monthly employment report is a government statistic that registers widely with voters, and the candidates' call for another stimulus package appears to reflect not only their concern about the jump in unemployment in August, but the likelihood that the September report, due out on Oct. 3, will be just as dreary.
 ''The debate about whether or not this is a recession is foolish,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at the Investment Technology Group. ''This is a recession.'' 
 Bill Clinton, facing what seemed like a similar situation in 1992, ran on the promise of a multibillion dollar stimulus package that would generate jobs, mainly through public works spending. He withdrew the proposal after winning the election, however, at a moment when employment was rising and the unemployment rate gradually declining.
 Mr. Clinton, however, ran for president as the economy was recovering from a recession, although that was not clearly evident in the government's monthly statistics. The Obama-McCain campaign, in contrast, appears to be taking place as a recession develops. Never has the unemployment rate risen so much in so short a period, except in a recession, economists note, and only in a recession have the nation's employers shed jobs for so many consecutive months.
 ''We should be prepared for the worst,'' said Jason Furman, director of economic policy for Mr. Obama, pushing for Congress to enact another stimulus package when it returns next week from a recess. ''I'm not saying the worst will happen, but we should be taking out an insurance policy.'' 
 Apart from the 84,000 jobs lost in August, the bureau yesterday revised its original estimates for June and July, saying that an additional 58,000 jobs had disappeared in those months. Nearly all represented cutbacks by state and local governments struggling with lower tax revenues in a weakening economy.
 The economy expanded in the second quarter at a healthy annual rate of 3.3 percent, a response in part to families spending their rebate checks from the first stimulus package and to a surge in exports as the dollar weakened. Now the dollar is rising, the last of the stimulus checks were mailed weeks ago, and the credit crisis -- particularly the reluctance of banks and other financial institutions to lend to consumers and businesses alike -- is restricting economic activity.
 Given these pressures, many economists expect third-quarter growth to be barely positive. In any case, the government is not scheduled to announce the third-quarter number until late October, just days before the election. 
 The August jobs report seemed to suggest that the deterioration in the economy is accelerating. The unemployment rate has risen 1.4 percentage points over the last year and is now at its highest level since September 2003, when the economy was just beginning to emerge from a jobless recovery. 
 What's more, those who swelled the unemployment rolls last month were adults, many over the age of 45, and not teen-agers, who were the main contributors to the jump in unemployment in May, when the rate rose to 5.5 percent from 5 percent in April. The nearly 600,000 people added to the unemployment roles in August included almost as many college graduates as those with only a high school degree. 
 Manufacturing companies shed the most jobs last month, 61,000, mostly at auto plants and in housing-related industries. There were also sharp cutbacks in the use of temporary workers, and across most of the work force hourly and weekly wages once again failed to keep pace with inflation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Theodore Harmon, left, helped a fellow job applicant, Solomon Boyd, on Friday as the two and others looked for work at the New York State Department of Labor office in Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) CHART: The Labor Picture in August: Unemployment rate
SHARE OF POPULATION
 Employment. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details bar graph. (pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); STATISTICS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



131 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Without Primaries or Caucuses, Campaign for German Chancellor Begins

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The American political system is criticized for its endless series of primaries and caucuses, but at least it has them. The battle lines are being drawn here in Europe's largest democracy the old-fashioned way, through back-room wheeling and dealing.
 Top Social Democrats will gather on Sunday outside Potsdam for a party meeting to discuss campaign strategy. All week they have tried, with only limited success, to cool feverish speculation that the unpopular leader of the Social Democratic Party, Kurt Beck, will tap the popular foreign minister and vice chancellor, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, to lead the charge against Chancellor Angela Merkel in next year's parliamentary elections. 
 The Social Democrats, reeling from a historically bad year, are the junior half of the governing coalition with Mrs. Merkel's conservative Christian Democratic Union. That has been an unhappy marriage of traditional rivals, which was underscored Friday when Mrs. Merkel publicly criticized the Social Democrats as ''increasingly unreliable'' and stated her preference for a coalition with the pro-business Free Democrats.
 Her attack raised the possibility -- still unlikely at this point but always a risk with a fragile government -- that the coalition might not hold together even until the tentative election date next September. 
 The political turmoil comes at a time when Germany's historical role as a mediator between Russia and its European and American allies has thrust the country back into the center of world affairs. 
 The Social Democrats, Mr. Steinmeier included, are known for their more Russia-friendly stance, arguing strenuously for engagement with the increasingly assertive power to the east, rather than its isolation.
 Domestically, Mr. Steinmeier, 52, is the only major politician with approval ratings consistently as high as or higher than Mrs. Merkel's. That, analysts here say, is helped by the especially high ratings foreign ministers generally receive here. 
 Mr. Steinmeier can be a divisive figure within his own party, because he is closely associated with the unpopular economic reforms of the last Social Democratic chancellor, his longtime boss, Gerhard Schroder. 
 All over Europe, whether it is the Socialists in France or Labor in Great Britain, mainstream left-wing parties have appeared to struggle of late. That has also been true in Germany, where the left and centrist wings of the Social Democratic Party have been starkly at odds.
 The party leadership remains publicly upbeat, however, maybe because, despite the Social Democrats' setbacks, the Christian Democrats have capitalized neither on their rivals' troubles nor on their chancellor's strong bond with average people. 
 ''I am completely convinced that the S.P.D. has enormous potential in Germany,'' said Hubertus Heil, the general secretary of the party, referring to it by its German initials. ''And that potential is much stronger than it appears in the polls right now.''
 Mr. Heil refused to say who would be the candidate or when that person would be named, but friends and foes alike have acknowledged that Mr. Steinmeier has the spot all but wrapped up. 
 Much of the remaining uncertainty stems from the opaqueness of the process. In Germany as in other European parliamentary democracies, the parties are the real powers, not the individual candidates. A party convention here allows members to ratify the pick, but analysts said it was a formality. 
 ''Once you have primaries, that weakens the party structure extraordinarily. There's no more smoke-filled rooms,'' said Josef Joffe, the publisher and editor of the weekly paper Die Zeit. ''The American system throws up mavericks every four years. In Germany it makes for well-known predictable people who have emerged from the apparatus, who have been in politics for 20 or 30 years.'' 
 There is no direct election for chancellor as there is for president of the United States. The party or coalition of parties with a majority in the Bundestag, the lower house of the German Parliament, selects the chancellor after the election. 
 Starting with the 1961 Bundestag election, however, the personality politics of the modern television era began to influence the way campaigns were run in Germany as well. The Social Democrats sent a contingent in 1960 to observe John F. Kennedy's ultimately victorious presidential bid against Richard Nixon.
 ''Many elements were transferred back to Germany,'' said Richard Stoss, a political scientist at the Free University in Berlin. ''The top candidate was particularly advertised and a degree of personalization came into the German system.'' 
 Today, polling groups regularly announce the results of hypothetical chancellor matchups, as if there were direct election for the office. A recent survey by a leading polling group in Germany, Infratest dimap, showed Mr. Beck, the Social Democrats' party leader, losing such a head-to-head matchup with Mrs. Merkel by a stunning 47 percentage points. 
 Mr. Steinmeier, by comparison, trailed in the theoretical matchup by a significant but not insurmountable 16 percentage points.
 But Mr. Steinmeier is inexperienced as a campaigner, having served as chief of staff for Mr. Schroder but never in elected office. Meanwhile Mr. Beck, in his home state of Rhineland-Palatinate, where he holds the post of minister-president, now finds the party trailing the Christian Democrats in polls there.
 Mr. Beck has presided over a string of symbolic setbacks that have helped define a year of crisis for the Social Democrats. Their traditional party of the left has lost ground as the more radical Left Party, whose ranks are stocked with disaffected Social Democrats and former East German Communists, has made significant gains in the former West Germany. 
 The Social Democrats' membership, which once exceeded one million, has dropped to 530,000, for the first time lower than Mrs. Merkel's conservatives.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany, a leading Social Democrat, on a visit last week to the town of Belzig.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBIAS SCHWARZ/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICS (91%); CAUCUSES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%)

PERSON: FRANK-WALTER STEINMEIER (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%); GERHARD SCHRODER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



132 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Discipline at Fore, A Busy Day for Paterson

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson continued to stress fiscal discipline amid recession Friday, ordering state agencies to submit budgets for next year that hold spending flat and vetoing legislation that would have prevented municipalities from lowering health care spending on retired public employees. 
 He also vetoed two bills that were intended to make state government more transparent -- a move that drew criticism even from within the executive branch -- though he ordered his staff to redraft one of those bills. 
 In all, Mr. Paterson approved 67 pieces of legislation and vetoed 49 on Friday, the latest batch of bills sent to his desk since the regular session ended in late June and a brief special session last month. 
 He continues to be driven by an impulse to cut costs. In a letter sent to state agencies on Friday, he said the government ''cannot continue making excuses for why the state is unwilling to limit its expenses at a time when hard-working taxpayers are forced to do the same thing.''
 The administration had already ordered cuts of agency spending of about 10 percent this year. Among his vetoes, the governor rejected a labor-backed bill that would have imposed a one-year moratorium on cuts to the medical benefits of retired public employees. 
 Although the veto is sure not to please unions, Stephen J. Acquario, the executive director of the New York State Association of Counties, called it ''a substantial act'' and said the measure would have amounted to ''handcuffing local government officials from Albany.''
 The governor also vetoed a bill that would have made it easier for students to receive more state tuition assistance if their parents' income shrinks because they are called to active military service, become ill or disabled or because of other unforeseen circumstances. 
 ''This bill would impose costs that cannot be provided at this fiscally precarious time,'' the governor said. 
 Blair Horner, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said, ''The public should be shocked that the governor would veto a bill that would have helped students stay in college'' in such dire circumstances. 
 Another bill the governor vetoed would have forced agencies to make relevant documents available to the public three days before open meetings, or as soon as practical. In a written explanation, the governor said the bill would ''seriously disrupt the work of boards and commissions in the days immediately preceding an important scheduled meeting.''
 The bill has long been pushed by Robert Freeman, the director of the Committee on Open Government, which is part of the executive branch but operates somewhat independently. 
 ''We've been proposing this legislation for years and years and years, and all of a sudden it was approved by both houses this year,'' Mr. Freeman said, adding that he was disappointed by the governor's veto. 
 ''Why should it be difficult to have these records available to the public?'' he said. ''We're talking about documents that are either accessible to the public under the Freedom of Information Law, or which serve as proposals in the nature of resolutions, laws, rules, regulations, policies or amendments.''
 Another bill the governor vetoed would have banned public authorities from pressuring employees to sign the kind of nondisclosure agreements that private corporations use to protect their secrets. The practice was revealed in a New York Times report this year that found that at least 19 employees who had resigned in recent years from the New York Power Authority, the state-owned utility, were required to keep secret the circumstances of their departures before obtaining severance pay or benefits.
 The governor said he supported the bill in principle but that it had a number of technical problems, which he directed his staff to address with the Legislature.
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who sponsored the bill, said, ''There is no public value in allowing authorities to use these devices to keep secret things which are legally defined as public information.'' He said that he would work with the governor's staff on a new version of the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); VETO (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (77%); COUNTIES (76%); TUITION FEES (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



133 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Let's Talk About Sex

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
Sarah Palin has a pregnant teenager. And, she's not alone. According to a report published in 2007, there are more than 400,000 other American girls in the same predicament. 
 In fact, a 2001 Unicef report said that the United States teenage birthrate was higher than any other member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The U.S. tied Hungary for the most abortions. This was in spite of the fact that girls in the U.S. were not the most sexually active. Denmark held that title. But, its teenage birthrate was one-sixth of ours, and its teenage abortion rate was half of ours.
 If there is a shame here, it's a national shame -- a failure of our puritanical society to accept and deal with the facts. Teenagers have sex. How often and how safely depends on how much knowledge and support they have. Crossing our fingers that they won't cross the line is not an intelligent strategy.
 To wit, our ridiculous experiment in abstinence-only education seems to be winding down with a study finding that it didn't work. States are opting out of it. Parents don't like it either. According to a 2004 survey sponsored by NPR, the Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, 65 percent of parents of high school students said that federal money ''should be used to fund more comprehensive sex education programs that include information on how to obtain and use condoms and other contraceptives.'' 
 We need to take some bold steps beyond the borders of our moralizing and discomfort and create a sex education infrastructure that actually acknowledges reality and protects our children from unwanted pregnancies, or worse.
 Britain is already taking these steps. London's Daily Telegraph reported last month on a June study that found that ''one in three secondary schools in England now has a sexual health clinic to give condoms, pregnancy tests and even morning-after pills to children as young as 11.'' 
 Furthermore, a bipartisan group from the British Parliament is seeking to make sex education compulsory for ''children as young as four years old.'' In a letter to the paper, the group laid out its case: ''International evidence suggests that high-quality sex and relationship education that puts sex in its proper context, that starts early enough to make a difference and that gives youngsters the confidence and ability to make well-informed decisions helps young people delay their first sexual experience and leads to lower teenage pregnancy levels.''
 That may be extreme, but many Americans can't even talk about sex without giggling, squirming or blushing. Let's start there. Talk to your kids about sex tonight, with confidence and a straight face. ''I'd prefer you waited to have sex. That said, whenever you choose to do it, make sure you use one of these condoms.'' It works. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Teenage Birthrates: Births to women under 20 per 1,000 women
Teenage Abortions: To women aged 15 to 19, per 1,000 women in 1996
 Teen Sex: Percentage of women who report having had sex before age 20, 1998.(Source: UNICEF, ''A League Table of Teenage Births in Rich Nations,'' Innocenti Report Card, July 2001) Chart shows bubble-chart. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEX EDUCATION (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); ABORTION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (71%); PARENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (84%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



134 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Running From Reality

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
If there was one pre-eminent characteristic of the Republican convention this week, it was the quality of deception. Words completely lost their meaning. Reality was turned upside down.
 From the faux populist gibberish mouthed by speaker after speaker, you would never have known that the Republicans have been in power over the past several years and used that titanic power to lead the country to its present sorry state. 
 In his acceptance speech on Thursday night, Senator John McCain did his best Sam Cooke imitation (''A Change is Gonna Come'') and vowed to put the country ''back on the road to prosperity and peace.'' 
 Mr. McCain spoke at the end of a day in which stock market indexes plunged. The next morning the Labor Department gave us the grim news that another 84,000 jobs had been lost in August, and that the official unemployment rate had climbed to 6.1 percent -- the highest in five years.
 If there were any good ideas at this convention of mostly rich and mostly right-wing delegates about how to haul the country out of this mess that the G.O.P. has gotten it into, they were kept well hidden. Perhaps they were tucked away behind the more prominently displayed creationism and ''just-say-no to global warming'' documents.
 It stretches the mind almost to the breaking point to think of John McCain as an agent of substantive change. He once believed that Phil Gramm was the most qualified person in the United States to be president. And he now believes that Sarah Palin is the most qualified to be vice president.
 That is not the fault of Mr. Gramm or Ms. Palin. But it sure tells us a lot about the judgment of John McCain.
 Mr. McCain is a warrior, a former fighter pilot, and it's no secret that Americans have long been thrilled by the romantic Top Gun narrative of fighter pilots, those specialists in the realm of the dangerous and the reckless. But we've also seen what dangerous and reckless behavior in the White House can do to a nation.
 Sarah Palin may someday become president, and for all we know she may be a great one. But she was not chosen as Mr. McCain's running mate after long and careful consideration and consultation. The best evidence is that she was a somewhat impulsive choice. Voters would be well advised to proceed with caution.
 For most voters, the No. 1 issue in this campaign is the financial struggle facing working families that are trying to cope with job losses, declining wages, the high cost of health care, home foreclosures, bankruptcies and the like. 
 To a great extent these problems are the result of national policies, forged under Republican rule, that overwhelmingly favored the interests of the very wealthy over working people.
 Senator McCain's economic guru through all of this was Mr. Gramm, a former Republican senator from Texas and chairman of the banking committee. He was a demon for deregulation, and he and his wife, Wendy, who once led the presidential Task Force on Regulatory Relief in the Reagan administration, were among the big recipients of Enron's largess.
 Phil Gramm was one of the lead architects of the breathtakingly irresponsible policies (No more restraints! No more regulation!) that led to the subprime mortgage meltdown and the current credit disaster. 
 A corporate insider in the Bush-Cheney mold, Mr. Gramm was thought to be in line to serve as treasury secretary in a McCain administration until July when he put his foot very publicly in his mouth. To Senator McCain's great embarrassment, Mr. Gramm dismissed the economic downturn as a ''mental recession'' and complained that the U.S. had become a ''nation of whiners.''
 That may have been a political no-no, but it was an accurate expression of the slavish devotion of the G.O.P. to the rich and powerful among us, and of the party's contempt for the interests of working families and the poor. Senator McCain, it should be noted, fully shared Mr. Gramm's anti-regulatory zeal.
 This is an odd crowd, indeed, to be offering itself as a champion for working people.
 Senator McCain has been a virtuoso at schmoozing and using the press, which he once jokingly referred to as his base. Much of the press has eagerly collaborated in the idea of him as an outsider, a maverick -- in some sense an American everyman. But Mr. McCain, who has been in Washington for more than a quarter of a century, was always embedded with the forces on the side of the corporate aristocracy.
 He didn't just stumble into the toxic relationships that got him into trouble with the Keating Five. And there was a reason for the closeness of his bond with Phil Gramm. 
 The populists' garb hangs awkwardly on the frame of John McCain. Everyman he ain't. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); FAMILY (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); FORECLOSURE (60%); CREATIONISM (51%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); PHIL GRAMM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



135 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2423 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: SEPTEMBER 6, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 RUSSIA-GEORGIA CONFLICT
 Damages Orthodox Unity
 Christians in Russia and Georgia are worrying about the damage that the bitter conflict between the two countries inflicted on the cherished unity of the Orthodox Church. The post-Soviet Russian government has re-embraced Orthodoxy as the national faith, and Georgia is equally identified with its Orthodox Church. The prospect of two Orthodox nations at war with each other was supposed to be unthinkable. PAGE A5
 PROTEST FROM CUBA'S PUNK SCENE
 Cuba is not without rebellious artists, but most of them are discreet when it comes to criticism of the upper crust of Cuban leadership. Not so for Gorki Luis Aguila Carrasco, above, the lead singer of a punk rock group called Porno para Ricardo (''Porn for Ricardo''), whose outspokenness is the kind of thing that could land him in jail. And has. PAGE A6 
 GERMANY'S COALITION TEST
 While the American political process is playing out in public, the battle lines in Germany for the parliamentary elections tentatively scheduled for next year are being drawn through back-room wheeling and dealing. At issue is the unhappy marriage between the Social Democrats, whose top leaders will gather on Sunday to discuss campaign strategy, and the Christian Democratic Union of Chancellor Angela Merkel. PAGE A6
 CHENEY OFFERS UKRAINE SUPPORT
 President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine said that the question of membership in the NATO alliance had new urgency in the wake of Russia's conflict with Georgia. Meeting with Vice President Dick Cheney, he pressed the United States and its allies to reconsider a decision not to begin a process intended to lead to Ukraine's membership. Mr. Cheney expressed strong support for membership, as he had the day before for Georgia. PAGE A8
 SPYING CLAIMS BRING IRAQI WARNING
 Claims that American officials spied on Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq and other senior officials, contained in a new book by Bob Woodward, brought warnings from Iraqi officials that negotiations over the continuing American troop presence in the country could be affected. President Bush's press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said that the White House ''would not comment on any of the assertions in the book.'' PAGE A8
 OH, AND GO HOME
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, not one to miss an opportunity for criticism of the United States or its admirers, has lately settled on ''pitiyanqui,'' a term literally translated as ''little yankee,'' as his putdown of choice. ''The pitiyanquis are worse than yanquis,'' Mr. Chavez explained, ''because they are miserable and lick the hand and other things of the yanqui.'' PAGE A9
 national
 A FIGHT FOR POE'S REMAINS
 And for the Title of His Home
 Edgar Allan Poe never lived in one city for long, and ever since he died and was buried in Baltimore in 1849, the city has claimed him as its own. But last year a Poe scholar in Philadelphia began arguing that Poe's remains belonged in Philadelphia. This is not the first time a city other than Baltimore has laid claim to Poe. Historians also look to Richmond, Va., as deserving of his legacy. pAGE A10
 CONVENTIONS SCORED IN TV RATINGS
 Senator John McCain's acceptance speech in St. Paul on Thursday drew an audience of nearly 40 million people across the major broadcast and cable news networks, outdrawing the audience for Senator Barack Obama's speech a week earlier. Combined, the two presidential candidates produced the first smash hit of the fall television season. They have broken all records, defying even the most hopeful predictions of the campaigns. PAGE A12
 A FIGHT HE COULD NOT WIN
 Although many in Detroit thought that Kwame M. Kilpatrick at 31 years old was too young to win the election as mayor, he decided to take on the fight and eventually proved his critics wrong. Mr. Kilpatrick has fought and won many battles since then. But he lost perhaps the biggest one of his life on Thursday when, in a deal with prosecutors, he pleaded guilty to felony charges, and agreed to resign and serve jail time, among other penalties. PAGE A15
 CAROLINAS AWAIT A TROPICAL STORM
 With wary eyes cast at Hurricane Ike farther out at sea, coastal Carolina residents prepared for gusting winds and torrential rain as Tropical Storm Hanna sped toward them. The storm was expected to make landfall near the North Carolina-South Carolina border early Saturday. Officials in both states called for voluntary evacuations of coastal communities and opened shelters. But few expected significant damage. PAGE A10
 obituaries
 MILA SCHoN, 91
 Her understated designs and precisely tailored clothes made her a stalwart of Italian haute couture beginning in the 1960s and a leader in high-end ready-to-wear. PAGE B6
 BRENO MELLO, 76
 He was the handsome, sculptured leading man in the classic 1959 Brazilian Carnival movie ''Black Orpheus.'' PAGE B6
 metro 
 COURTROOM STYLE, 
 With or Without Robes
 In Britain, judges favor scarlet and ermine robes, tippets over the shoulders, black girdles and crimped, gray horsehair wigs. But on any given day in New York City's courthouses, it is common to see judges on the bench with unzipped or unbuttoned robes; accessories like scarves, jewelry or collars hanging outside of a robe; and, in some cases, no robe at all. They like to consider their freedom of dress a humanizing agent. And they have long found ways to give their robes a bit of pop. PAGE B1 
 BEYOND RACE AND RELIGION
 Since 1981, Arnold Graf has built a striking track record of crossing the borders of race and religion to organize among black Christians. His current effort has brought millions of dollars from black churches and Jewish philanthropies to build or repair up to 1,200 homes in the ruins of East Baltimore. His work has breathed new life into the black-Jewish alliance that flourished in the first decade of the civil rights movement before rupturing over black nationalism and affirmative action. On Religion, by Samuel G. Freedman. PAGE B1 
 SPORTS
 FROM '07 OPEN'S DARLING 
 To '08 Open's Boo Target
 Last year he won over the Flushing Meadows crowds with his impressions of players like Maria Sharapova and Rafael Nadal. But when he takes on Roger Federer in a men's semifinal on Saturday, Novak Djokovic is likely to find that what U.S. Open crowds can giveth, they can taketh away, especially after you aim a verbal volley at the highest-ranked American. PAGE D3 
 MATCHMAKER, MATCHMAKER ...
 The job security of most college football coaches does not encourage inventive scheduling of games that might end up as a loss. And so it sometimes falls to Dave Brown, a vice president of programming for ESPN college football matchmaker, to provide incentives. He helped create Saturday's intriguing match-up between Penn State and Oregon State, and Cincinnati's game at Oklahoma. PAGE D1 
 TOUR DROPS ENGLISH REQUIREMENT
 After a torrent of criticism, the L.P.G.A. Tour dropped plans to suspend players who were not conversant in English during its golf events. The Tour said it would announce a revised policy, absent of playing penalties, by the end of this year. The reversal appeared to be a hurried admission that the L.P.G.A. had not thoroughly examined the ramifications of the policy, which many believed to be aimed at the sizeable contingent of Asian players on the Tour. PAGE D1 
 BUSINESS
 MICROSOFT AIMS TO PATCH
 Problems From Vista
 Microsoft's efforts to polish the tarnished brand of its Windows Vista operating system include an advertising campaign that will cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and engineers have been dispatched to fine-tune hardware and software to make Vista PCs faster and less crash-prone. It says most of Vista's technical problems have been resolved. But Vista's image problems have opened the door to alternatives to Windows as never before. PAGE B1 
 A BANK OUT OF TOUCH
 Federal regulators told the Downey Financial Corporation, the $13 billion California savings and loan, to shore up its finances, reduce its assets and strengthen management. Many mortgage lenders face similar problems from the mortgage crisis. But Downey's troubles demonstrate how the bank, which has been controlled by Maurice McAlister and his family for decades and suffered from manager turnover in recent years, grew out of touch with changing times. PAGE B1 
 HOPING FOR A FIX, QUICK OR NOT
 The beginning of a Treasury Department plan for the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac appears to be coalescing, and it is likely to give the financial markets a boost. But whatever the government does, analysts say, a Treasury plan will not immediately reverse the decline in home prices or protect financially vulnerable homeowners from falling behind on their mortgages. PAGE B1 
 FORECASTING AUTO GLOOM
 In his 16 years as president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, Basil E. Hargrove has seen both his public profile and his union's membership rise. But as he faces retirement on Saturday, he acknowledges that problems lie ahead. ''Today the auto industry is a shell of itself,'' he said. ''My problem is that I don't see any end in sight to the bad news.'' PAGE B3 
 JUDGE UNSEALS DRUG MATERIALS
 A federal judge decided to unseal confidential materials about Eli Lilly's top-selling antipsychotic drug Zyprexa, citing ''the health of hundreds of thousands of people'' and ''fundamental questions'' about the way drugs are approved for new uses. The decision came as part of a ruling that gave class-action status to a suit seeking to have Lilly repay billions of dollars spent on the drug. PAGE B4
 SELL-OFF HITS RUSSIAN MARKET
 Russia's stock market is suffering its worst correction in nearly a decade as sliding oil prices, political attacks on private companies and instability after last month's war in Georgia spook investors. And on a bad day globally for stocks, Russia's markets took an exceptional fall Friday. Stock analysts saw similarities between the current sell-off in Russian equities and the financial crisis of 1998, when retreating oil prices, a default on sovereign bonds and a devaluation of the ruble caused a 57 percent loss in the market from the third quarter of that year to the next September. PAGE B2 
 A Slow Route to Maestro B5 
 ARTS 
 A BAND MAKES ITS PITCH
 For a Plague o' Both Houses
 The Democratic and Republican presidential contenders both have their supporters in the music world. But one band that made a point of being in town for the nominating conventions was having no part of either party, preferring to make its voice heard in opposition to each. But then, what else would you expect from something called Rage Against the Machine? PAGE A15
 APPEASING THE DEITIES
 While ''The Dragon's Gift: The Sacred Arts of Bhutan'' spends the next four months at the Rubin Museum of Art in Manhattan, the 87 objects in the show will attract even more than the usual care afforded exhibitions: two Buddhist monks from Bhutan will be on hand to perform twice-daily rituals to safeguard the artworks' spiritual well-being. PAGE A15
 WON'T YOU BE THEIR NEIGHBOR?
 Their Web site asks the question ''What would happen if the Beastie Boys collaborated with Mr. Rogers?'' For the four New Orleans friends known as the Imagination Movers, the latest thing about to happen is their homegrown and self-named TV show, which begins Saturday on the Disney Channel's ''Playhouse Disney'' preschool lineup. PAGE A17
 this weekend
 THE MAGAZINE
 Mark Zuckerberg, the creator of Facebook, created News Feed, which was something like a ticker offering a rundown of every friend's recent social activity. (Think ''Tim and Sara are no longer in a relationship.'') With Twitter, the micro-blogging service, this incessant online contact has created a new world of ambient intimacy. PAGE 42 
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 It was two years ago when the Securities and Exchange Commission began requiring that companies explain which performance targets they used to calculate how much to pay their executives. How is it working? According to a new study, many companies are simply not bothering to comply. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
 TRAVEL
 It's a long way to Bethlehem, and years separate us from the history that made it what it was. But now that Pope Benedict XVI has inaugurated the jubilee year, commemorating the second millennium of Paul's birth, the ritual of pilgrimage has returned and religious tourism to places like Syria is rising. Page 6
 BOOK REVIEW
 Christopher Buckley is an old hand at political satire (''Thank You For Smoking,'' ''Florence of Arabia''). The protagonist in his new novel, ''Supreme Courtship,'' is a popular TV judge who is nominated to the Supreme Court. One of her first adversaries is a shiny, verbose, Amtrak-loving senator. One of her fellow justices is an ultra-Catholic Italian-American. Hmmm. Who were those characters inspired by? PAGE 9
 Editorial
 CAUGHT IN THE CROSS-FIRE
 Civilians in Afghanistan are paying a deadly price in the war against the Taliban and Al Qaeda. America is fast losing the battle for hearts and minds, and unless the Pentagon comes up with a better strategy, the United States and its allies may well lose the war. page A22
 JOBS WANTED
 Job losses in August, reported on Friday, were both deep and wide. Unemployment rose to 6.1 percent, the highest rate in nearly five years. Out-of-work Americans need more help from Washington to get through these very hard times. page A22
 TOO MANY QUESTIONS
 Lawyers for Charles Hood, who is scheduled to be executed next week, have presented evidence that during his trial the judge was having an affair with the prosecutor. Even supporters of capital punishment should be appalled at the prospect of executing a man after a trial that was so grossly unfair. page A22
 op-ed
 BOB HERBERT
 The faux populism of John McCain and others at the Republican convention can't hide the G.O.P.'s responsibility for the current state of the nation. page A23
 GAIL COLLINS
 A visitor from another planet who dropped in on the Republican campaign at this point would very likely assume that the Republican presidential nominee was a guy who spent his life as a prisoner of war until he was released just in time to nominate Sarah Palin for vice president. page A23
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 We need to take bold steps, beyond the borders of our comfort zones, and create a sex education infrastructure that acknowledges reality and protects our children from unwanted pregnancies, or worse. page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POP & ROCK (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BOOK REVIEWS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (77%); DICK CHENEY (76%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); UKRAINE (93%); GERMANY (92%); CUBA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



136 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Highway Fund Shortfall May Halt Road Projects

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT and MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An important account in the federal Highway Trust Fund will run out of money this month, a situation that could hamper completion of road and bridge construction projects across the country, Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters said on Friday.
 Because the trust fund's highway account is draining away, the Transportation Department will have to delay payments for projects, Ms. Peters said at a news conference. Since money from Washington typically pays 80 to 90 percent of the cost of federally aided road work, states with shaky finances may have to consider curtailing projects. 
 Ms. Peters said her department would begin to dole out money from the fund each week on a prorated basis. For instance, if there is enough money to cover only 80 percent of the payment requests the department receives for federally financed local projects, the agency will pay only 80 percent of each request initially, making up the difference later. 
 ''Time and again, the president has warned Congress of the pending shortfall and submitted fiscally prudent budgets to close the gap,'' Ms. Peters said, in remarks that reflected the political nature of the long-running debate over how to pay for road building.
 The fund is financed by federal excise taxes on motor fuel, 18.4 cents a gallon on gasoline and 24.4 cents a gallon on diesel. But the fund's highway account is being rapidly depleted because for months Americans have been reacting to the high price of gasoline by driving less, Ms. Peters said. In May, for instance, vehicle-miles were down 3.7 percent from a year earlier.
 Not many months ago, federal officials expected the highway account to have about $4 billion by Sept. 30, the end of the federal fiscal year. Last Oct. 1, the trust fund had $8.1 billion in the bank, transportation officials said, but by Sept. 30, its expenses will have exceeded its income by $8.3 billion, creating a $200 million gap. (The Highway Trust Fund also has a much smaller account to finance mass transit projects, but it is in surplus at the moment.) 
 The Transportation Department expects to have enough money to make all payments to the states for the second week of September but enough for only about 64 percent of the payments the third week, said Brian Turmail, an agency spokesman. 
 Then, with a regular infusion of two weeks' worth of gasoline-tax revenue from the Treasury, the Transportation Department will have enough money to make 88 percent of its payments in the fourth week of September -- except that it will have to first make up payments it could not meet earlier in the month.
 Thus, as states wind down the busy summer construction season, their transportation officials can anticipate longer and longer delays in getting payments from Washington, Mr. Turmail said.
 State transportation officials expressed alarm. The money shortage will have ''grave repercussions for the states, for hundreds of thousands of workers in the construction industry and the driving public,'' said John Horsley, executive director of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
 Contractors were also worried. ''Each week that it goes on, it gets more serious,'' said Brian P. Deery, senior director of the Associated General Contractors of America's highway and transportation division. At some point, he said, some states may have to tell road contractors that they cannot pay them and that ''we'd like you to continue working, but we understand if you have to stop working.''
 In July, the House passed a bill that would use $8 billion of general federal revenue -- from income and other taxes, not the dedicated motor fuel tax -- to finance highway projects. The measure has not gained much support in the Senate, and until Friday the White House had been hostile to it. But Ms. Peters said the administration now endorsed the measure because ''immediate action'' was required to ensure that the states did not suffer.
 Another possible solution would be to transfer money to the highway account from the account that the trust fund maintains to finance mass transit. But lawmakers from large cities that rely on trust-fund aid for their transit systems could be expected to resist such a move.
 For the moment, Republicans and Democrats were blaming each other for the problem, which comes as the economy is in trouble and the election season is intensifying. The administration has accused the Democratic-controlled Congress of loading transportation bills with pork barrel projects that virtually invite President Bush's veto.
 But Democrats accuse the Bush administration of ''nickel and diming our degrading roads, bridges, highways,'' as well as mass transit, as Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York put it on Friday. 
 The issue is likely to be on a front-burner when Congress returns, as Representative James L. Oberstar, the Minnesota Democrat who heads the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, signaled on Friday. ''Given that the United States has lost more than 600,000 jobs this year, and the unemployment rate is the highest it has been in five years, we cannot afford to lose one more family-wage construction job,'' he said in a statement.
 Whatever Congress does in the short term, some profound policy issues will have to be addressed at some point. The shift to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars in an era of expensive gasoline is the very trend that is helping to deplete the highway fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAY FUNDING (93%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (92%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FUEL TAX (87%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); TAX LAW (72%); EXCISE TAX (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: MARY PETERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



137 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Conventions, Anything But Dull, Are a TV Hit

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and BRIAN STELTER; Jim Rutenberg reported from St. Paul, and Brian Stelter from New York.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL 

 BODY:
The television ratings for the just concluded political conventions were so unusual that perhaps only the language of a Hollywood trade publication could capture their enormousness: Boffo Auds For Wannabe Prexy Perfs! (Or: ''Performances by Presidential Aspirants Draw Large Ratings.'')
 Senator John McCain's acceptance speech here on Thursday drew an audience of nearly 40 million people across the major broadcast and cable news networks, slightly larger than the audience for Senator Barack Obama's acceptance speech a week earlier. Combined, the two presidential nominees produced the first smash hit of the new television season. 
 Mr. McCain's speech capped the two weeks of political theater that was the political conventions -- a limited series that was a far cry from the predictable and dull affair cited by network officials as their excuse to limit broadcast time in recent years.
 The audiences this year broke all records for the conventions, defying even the most hopeful predictions of the campaigns. 
 What gives?
 The competitive contest is certainly a draw -- it pits the first African-American to hold the nomination of a major party against a war hero who is the first Republican to share the ticket with a woman, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. And the election comes as the nation is buffeted by war and economic challenges.
 But other elements came into play, the same elements that drew 32 million people for the finale of ''American Idol,'' 34 million for the opening ceremonies of the Olympics and 32 million for the Oscars: drama, suspense and pageantry.
 ''It really is what 'Peyton Place' was like at its peak in the 1960s -- it has got the kind of juice of watching a really, really compelling, serialized narrative,'' said Robert J. Thompson, a professor of popular culture at Syracuse University. ''The only thing that's scary in the end is the outcome is going to affect life as we know it on this planet.''
 The events that unspooled over the last two weeks were the envy of Hollywood studio executives and writers: the tense transfer of Democratic leadership from the Clintons, who had been the change agents of 1992, to Mr. Obama; the high-stakes decision by Mr. Obama to deliver his acceptance speech in an outdoor stadium before an audience of about 80,000; Mr. McCain's surprise decision to choose the relatively unknown Ms. Palin as his running mate; the Gulf Coast storm that sharply curtailed his convention's first day; and (breathe) the speeches by Ms. Palin on Wednesday and Mr. McCain on Thursday. 
 There was also the twist of seeing a former Democratic vice-presidential candidate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who ran with Al Gore in 2000, speak out against Mr. Obama from the Republican stage. 
 ''That would be what we call the end-of-the-season arc reveal,'' said Rachel Kaplan, the head of scripted television at BermanBraun Productions. ''The person you were following was really working on the other side,'' she continued, adding, ''It's great television.''
 On its own, Ms. Palin's speech was an enormous draw. Jay Wallace, vice president for news editorial for the Fox News Channel, said he had expected high ratings because ''this character showed up out of nowhere. Whether you're left, right or middle, you want to know, Who is this mystery woman from Alaska?''
 Repeating its victory in 2004, Fox News received the highest ratings in its coverage of the Republican gathering here. It attracted 9.2 million viewers during the speeches by Ms. Palin and Mr. McCain. The two nights tied as the third-highest-rated telecasts in the channel's history, trailing only a presidential address on the eve of the war in Iraq in 2003 and a presidential debate in 2004.
 For two nights this week, the combined audience for the three cable news channels was larger than the combined audience for the three broadcast networks, a sign of cable's new dominance of political news.
 Among the candidates, the ratings were close. Mr. McCain edged not only Mr. Obama but also Ms. Palin, who reached 37.2 million viewers Wednesday. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Obama's running mate, drew an audience of 24 million during the Democratic convention.
 Altogether, 38.9 million Americans watched Mr. McCain deliver his acceptance speech on Thursday night, according to Nielsen Media Research. Mr. Obama's speech the week before had an audience of 38.4 million, according to Nielsen. 
 Partisans of Mr. Obama said Mr. McCain was helped by the large audience that tuned in on NBC to the opening game of the National Football League season; partisans for Mr. McCain said his ratings represented the new vigor of his campaign with the addition of Ms. Palin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain's acceptance speech was shown Thursday in Times Square. It was watched by 38.9 million Americans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); THEATER (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



138 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: With Themes Set, Both Campaigns Begin a 60-Day Dash to Election Day

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF ZELENY; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Wisconsin and Michigan, and Jeff Zeleny from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.

DATELINE: STERLING HEIGHTS, Mich. 

 BODY:
Fresh off back-to-back conventions, the two presidential campaigns took off Friday on a 60-day dash to the White House in a political landscape reshaped by the candidacy of Gov. Sarah Palin and Republican efforts to seize the mantle of change.
 The race, transformed by zeal among the Republican base for Senator John McCain's running mate, got a burst of new life at the same time that television viewership numbers showed that nearly 40 million people, a record for an American political convention, tuned to the major broadcast and cable-news networks to watch Mr. McCain's acceptance speech in St. Paul on Thursday night. That was a bit more than those who watched Senator Barack Obama's speech in Denver last week.
 ''Change is coming, change is coming, and with her there we will restore our strength and the prosperity of this great nation,'' Mr. McCain, with Ms. Palin at his side, told a roaring crowd of thousands in Cedarburg, Wis., a small town in a solidly Republican swath outside Milwaukee. 
 An even larger and more raucous crowd, highly unusual for Mr. McCain, jammed an outdoor amphitheater at a rally in Sterling Heights, near Detroit, here in one of this year's most crucial battleground states. Ms. Palin was greeted like an international celebrity as rock music blared and the crowd chanted: ''Sarah! Sarah! Sarah!''
 The first day of campaigning after the conventions suggested the contours of the two months ahead: the Obama campaign will use the deteriorating economy to try to link Mr. McCain to President Bush's economic policies, and Ms. Palin will be deployed to rally the Republican base as the main weapon against Mr. Obama.
 Mr. McCain stayed away from negative attacks on Friday. But in a clear dig at Mr. Obama, Ms. Palin told the throng in Sterling Heights: ''In politics there are some candidates who use change to promote their careers. And then there are some candidates like John McCain who use their careers to promote change.'' 
 Mr. Obama's advisers scoffed at the pageantry and Mr. McCain's embrace of the ''change'' theme.
 ''Simply saying the word does not make you the agent of change,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's top political strategist.
 They also said Mr. McCain had failed to address voters' fundamental concerns about the economy. Mr. Obama himself drew sharp distinctions between himself and his Republican rivals as he seized upon Friday's news that the nation lost more than 80,000 jobs last month.
 Addressing an audience of workers at a glass manufacturing plant in Duryea, Pa., near Scranton, Mr. Obama said, ''If you watched the Republican National Convention over the last three days, you wouldn't know that we have the highest unemployment rate in five years, because they didn't say a thing about what is going on with the middle class.''
 Mr. Obama, in shirtsleeves and wearing safety goggles, struck a sober tone about the economy as he toured the plant. The backdrop was intended to offer a contrast to the scenes of rallying this week in St. Paul, where, Democrats said, Republicans all but ignored an economic crisis facing many families across America.
 ''They spent a lot of time trying to run me down and not necessarily telling the truth,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But what they didn't talk about is you and what you're seeing in your lives and what you're going through and what your friends and your neighbors are going through.'' 
 For 19 months, Mr. Obama has built his campaign around a mantra of change, with his slogan, ''Change We Can Believe In,'' emblazoned on the side of his plane and on posters at his rallies. He had the message largely to himself throughout the primary race. But now he suddenly faces competition for it from Mr. McCain, who, along with his advisers, concluded before the conventions ended that the theme of ''experience'' he had been running on was not working.
 At a fund-raising dinner Friday evening at the Middletown, N.J., home of the rock star Jon Bon Jovi, Mr. Obama braced his supporters for a tough contest ahead. 
 ''I hope you guys are up for a fight,'' he said. As about 150 contributors applauded, he added: ''I don't believe in coming in second. The American people can't afford for us to come in second.''
 The McCain campaign is promoting Ms. Palin, the second woman to run on a presidential ticket of a major party, as an embodiment of change. Democrats question whether that is possible from a woman who opposes abortion and is out of step with many female voters on other issues. But for now she has brought sizzle to Mr. McCain's once-sleepy campaign.
 Their stop in Cedarburg (where Ms. Palin ordered some richly mixed ''moose tracks'' ice cream) showed their determination to challenge Mr. Obama in Wisconsin, a state where he has enjoyed a comfortable edge but where Mr. McCain has invested heavily in television advertising.
 Democratic strategists said Friday that they did not yet know whether the field of battleground states would expand or contract with the addition of Ms. Palin to the ticket. McCain advisers said they planned to use her in the strongly conservative areas where she has the most appeal. They also said her popularity ensured they would send her to large television markets as well as the small and medium markets traditionally reserved for the vice-presidential nominee.
 ''Whether she has additional reach,'' said Mr. Axelrod, the Obama strategist, ''is something that we'll have to see.''
 The Obama campaign's immediate focus is on the economy and a broader call for change, but questions from voters suggest that the race could also turn on social and cultural matters. For the second straight day, Mr. Obama was asked whether he would tighten rules for gun owners, an issue that has proved vexing to many Democratic candidates. 
 ''If you believe that I'm the best guy when it comes to jobs,'' he replied, ''if you believe that I'm the best guy when it comes to health care, if you believe that I'm the best guy on education and I'm going to be looking out for you and fighting for you, this can't be the reason not to vote for me. Your guns -- we're not going to mess with them, all right?''
 Ms. Palin, meanwhile, opened a new front against Mr. Obama, who said in an interview televised by Fox News on Thursday that the troop escalation in Iraq had succeeded beyond expectations.
 ''Just last night, Senator Obama finally broke and brought himself to admit what all the rest of us have known for quite some time,'' Ms. Palin said in Cedarburg, adding that ''thanks to the skill and valor of our troops, the surge in Iraq has succeeded.''
 ''I guess when you turn out to be profoundly wrong on a vital national security issue,'' she continued, ''maybe it's comfortable to pretend that everybody was wrong today, but I remember it a little differently.''
 One woman in the Cedarburg crowd said she had been up since dawn and had driven an hour to see Ms. Palin, not Mr. McCain.
 ''She's me,'' said the woman, Tana Krueger, 58, a Republican from Fond du Lac, Wis., who is a mother of six. 
 Ms. Krueger, a risk manager at a state hospital, said that she might not have come out to see Mr. McCain on his own and that while she might have voted for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton had Mrs. Clinton been the Democratic nominee, she was now definitely going to vote for Mr. McCain because of his selection of Ms. Palin.
 ''I can just really relate to everything in her life,'' Ms. Krueger said. ''Children with disabilities. Teenage pregnancy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama spent time Friday meeting workers in Duryea, Pa., where he seized on news that the nation lost more than 80,000 jobs last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator John McCain and his wife, Cindy, at a rally on Friday in Sterling Heights, Mich.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); GLASS MFG (55%); POP & ROCK (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (50%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



139 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: The Rhetoric and the Reality

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and PETER BAKER

 BODY:
Barack Obama
'' We measure progress in the 23 million new jobs that were created when Bill Clinton was president when the average American family saw its income go up $7,500 instead of go down $2,000, like it has under George Bush.''
Will Senator Barack Obama really extend health care coverage to all Americans? Did Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. really put an extra 100,000 police officers on the streets? Will Senator John McCain really cut taxes while Mr. Obama raises them? Did Gov. Sarah Palin really oppose the ''bridge to nowhere'' in Alaska? A political convention is a license if not to lie then at least to tell the truth creatively. At their quadrennial gatherings over the last two weeks, Democrats and Republicans presented their records and blurred or distorted the real picture. In Denver last week, the Democrats depicted the Clinton years as halcyon days of peace and prosperity and the Bush era as a period of unremitting catastrophe at home and abroad. In St. Paul this week, the Republicans more or less ignored President Bush's tenure and focused instead on projecting disaster if the opposition were to recapture the White House. Along the way, both sides filled the airwaves with dubious claims, exaggerations and selective statistics. So much for the rhetoric. Now for a little reality. JACKIE CALMES AND PETER BAKER 
CONTEXT The number of jobs grew substantially during Mr. Clinton's presidency, as did median income, but the numbers depend on the category and year cited. An August Census Bureau report shows median household income fell by $324 from 2000 to 2007, not the $2,000 Mr. Obama cited. The $2,000 figure probably referred to median non-elderly household income, which has dropped by $2,010 since 2000. If counting from 2001, the year Mr. Bush took office and the last recession ended, overall median household income rose $778 by 2007. While it is true that incomes grew far more under Mr. Clinton (by $5,312 from 1993 to 2001), the median household income adjusted for inflation in 2007 was still the third highest on record.
''And when one of his chief advisers, the man who wrote his economic plan, was talking about the anxieties that Americans are feeling, he said that we were just suffering from a 'mental recession' and that we've become, and I quote, 'a nation of whiners.' ''
CONTEXT Mr. Obama correctly quotes former Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who resigned as Mr. McCain's campaign co-chairman amid the ensuing controversy. But Mr. Obama, in trying to make Mr. McCain guilty by association, is exaggerating to call Mr. Gramm the author of a McCain plan. Mr. Gramm is a longtime friend of Mr. McCain and is identified with deep tax cuts for corporations and upper-income people of the sort proposed. While advisers say Mr. Gramm retains more influence than the campaign publicly acknowledges, Mr. McCain's proposals come mainly from Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former Bush White House economist and Congressional budget director who is the campaign's chief economic adviser.
''Now, I don't believe that Senator McCain doesn't care what's going on in the lives of Americans; I just think he doesn't know. Why else would he define middle class as someone making under $5 million a year?''
CONTEXT This refers to Mr. McCain's answer at a forum last month when the Rev. Rick Warren of the Saddleback Church asked the candidate to give a specific number for the income level that divides the rich from the middle class. ''How about $5 million?'' Mr. McCain initially answered. The audience laughed, and Mr. McCain went on to say, ''But, seriously, I don't think you can'' cite a number. He also foresaw how the opposition would use his answer. ''I'm sure that comment will be distorted,'' he said. The nonpartisan FactCheck.org concluded that was what Mr. Obama did -- distort what it called Mr. McCain's ''clumsy attempt at humor.''Joseph R. Biden Jr.
''Barack Obama will bring down health care costs by $2,500 for the average family and, at long last, deliver affordable, accessible health care for every American.''
CONTEXT The $2,500 figure is based on assumptions that have provoked debate among experts. The Obama campaign says his plan would save more than $200 billion in health care spending each year and that would average $2,500 for each family. But his aides acknowledge that a lot of those savings would not go directly to families but to the government or private employers, and there is no guarantee they would be passed along to families in the form of higher salaries or lower taxes. Some experts also say the Obama plan is overly optimistic about how quickly and deeply it can cut health care spending. Some say the savings Mr. Obama envisions would not be realized for a decade or more, rather than by the end of his first term, as he has suggested. Mr. Obama's plan, for instance, relies on saving $77 billion a year through computerizing medical records, an estimate taken from a RAND Corporation study in 2005 that also warned it would take 15 years to realize such savings. The Congressional Budget Office in May criticized the RAND estimate's methodology in projecting such sizeable savings. The Obama campaign has fought back by rounding up other experts who endorse its plan as tough but doable.Hillary Rodham Clinton
''I cannot wait to watch Barack Obama sign into law a health care plan that covers every single American.''
CONTEXT Mrs. Clinton spent much of her primary campaign pounding Mr. Obama because she said his health care plan would not cover 15 million people. ''Most of the Democrats have plans that cover everybody; Senator Obama does not,'' she said at one event. Unlike her plan, Mr. Obama's program would not include a mandate that every American obtain health insurance. But like hers, it would make it possible for everyone who wants to have insurance to get it. While the Obama campaign quarreled with the 15 million estimate, it agreed that under its plan there would be people who would not seek out health insurance, including some well-off people who do not want it, some young people who do not think they needed it and some lower-income people who would qualify for Medicaid but for whatever reason do not enroll in the government program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: Chart details quotes for Republican and Democratic candidates. Quotes from Obama/Biden and McCain/Palin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CENSUS (66%); WRITERS (60%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); PHIL GRAMM (78%); SARAH PALIN (73%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



140 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: The Rhetoric and the Reality

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and PETER BAKER

 BODY:
Barack Obama
'' We measure progress in the 23 million new jobs that were created when Bill Clinton was president when the average American family saw its income go up $7,500 instead of go down $2,000, like it has under George Bush.''
CONTEXT The number of jobs grew substantially during Mr. Clinton's presidency, as did median income, but the numbers depend on the category and year cited. An August Census Bureau report shows median household income fell by $324 from 2000 to 2007, not the $2,000 Mr. Obama cited. The $2,000 figure probably referred to median non-elderly household income, which has dropped by $2,010 since 2000. If counting from 2001, the year Mr. Bush took office and the last recession ended, overall median household income rose $778 by 2007. While it is true that incomes grew far more under Mr. Clinton (by $5,312 from 1993 to 2001), the median household income adjusted for inflation in 2007 was still the third highest on record. 
''And when one of his chief advisers, the man who wrote his economic plan, was talking about the anxieties that Americans are feeling, he said that we were just suffering from a 'mental recession' and that we've become, and I quote, 'a nation of whiners.' ''
CONTEXT Mr. Obama correctly quotes former Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who resigned as Mr. McCain's campaign co-chairman amid the ensuing controversy. But Mr. Obama, in trying to make Mr. McCain guilty by association, is exaggerating to call Mr. Gramm the author of a McCain plan. Mr. Gramm is a longtime friend of Mr. McCain and is identified with deep tax cuts for corporations and upper-income people of the sort proposed. While advisers say Mr. Gramm retains more influence than the campaign publicly acknowledges, Mr. McCain's proposals come mainly from Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former Bush White House economist and Congressional budget director who is the campaign's chief economic adviser.
''Now, I don't believe that Senator McCain doesn't care what's going on in the lives of Americans; I just think he doesn't know. Why else would he define middle class as someone making under $5 million a year?''
CONTEXT This refers to Mr. McCain's answer at a forum last month when the Rev. Rick Warren of the Saddleback Church asked the candidate to give a specific number for the income level that divides the rich from the middle class. ''How about $5 million?'' Mr. McCain initially answered. The audience laughed, and Mr. McCain went on to say, ''But, seriously, I don't think you can'' cite a number. He also foresaw how the opposition would use his answer. ''I'm sure that comment will be distorted,'' he said. The nonpartisan FactCheck.org concluded that was what Mr. Obama did -- distort what it called Mr. McCain's ''clumsy attempt at humor.''Joseph R. Biden Jr.
''Barack Obama will bring down health care costs by $2,500 for the average family and, at long last, deliver affordable, accessible health care for every American.''
CONTEXT The $2,500 figure is based on assumptions that have provoked debate among experts. The Obama campaign says his plan would save more than $200 billion in health care spending each year and that would average $2,500 for each family. But his aides acknowledge that a lot of those savings would not go directly to families but to the government or private employers, and there is no guarantee they would be passed along to families in the form of higher salaries or lower taxes. Some experts also say the Obama plan is overly optimistic about how quickly and deeply it can cut health care spending. Some say the savings Mr. Obama envisions would not be realized for a decade or more, rather than by the end of his first term, as he has suggested. Mr. Obama's plan, for instance, relies on saving $77 billion a year through computerizing medical records, an estimate taken from a RAND Corporation study in 2005 that also warned it would take 15 years to realize such savings. The Congressional Budget Office in May criticized the RAND estimate's methodology in projecting such sizeable savings. The Obama campaign has fought back by rounding up other experts who endorse its plan as tough but doable.Hillary Rodham Clinton
''I cannot wait to watch Barack Obama sign into law a health care plan that covers every single American.''
CONTEXT Mrs. Clinton spent much of her primary campaign pounding Mr. Obama because she said his health care plan would not cover 15 million people. ''Most of the Democrats have plans that cover everybody; Senator Obama does not,'' she said at one event. Unlike her plan, Mr. Obama's program would not include a mandate that every American obtain health insurance. But like hers, it would make it possible for everyone who wants to have insurance to get it. While the Obama campaign quarreled with the 15 million estimate, it agreed that under its plan there would be people who would not seek out health insurance, including some well-off people who do not want it, some young people who do not think they needed it and some lower-income people who would qualify for Medicaid but for whatever reason do not enroll in the government program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: Chart details quotes for Republican and Democratic candidates. Quotes from Obama/Biden and McCain/Palin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); FAMILY (90%); RECESSION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CENSUS (71%); WRITERS (66%); TAX LAW (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); PHIL GRAMM (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



141 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 8297 words

HEADLINE: RIGHT AT THE EDGE

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

 BODY:
I: The Border Incident
 Late in the afternoon of June 10, during a firefight with Taliban militants along the Afghan-Pakistani border, American soldiers called in airstrikes to beat back the attack. The firefight was taking place right on the border itself, known in military jargon as the ''zero line.'' Afghanistan was on one side, and the remote Pakistani region known as the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, or FATA, was on the other. The stretch of border was guarded by three Pakistani military posts. 
 The American bombers did the job, and then some. By the time the fighting ended, the Taliban militants had slipped away, the American unit was safe and 11 Pakistani border guards lay dead. The airstrikes on the Pakistani positions sparked a diplomatic row between the two allies: Pakistan called the incident ''unprovoked and cowardly''; American officials regretted what they called a tragic mistake. But even after a joint inquiry by the United States, Pakistan and Afghanistan, it remained unclear why American soldiers had reached the point of calling in airstrikes on soldiers from Pakistan, a critical ally in the war in Afghanistan and the campaign against terrorism. 
 The mystery, at least part of it, was solved in July by four residents of Suran Dara, a Pakistani village a few hundred yards from the site of the fight. According to two of these villagers, whom I interviewed together with a local reporter, the Americans started calling in airstrikes on the Pakistanis after the latter started shooting at the Americans. 
 ''When the Americans started bombing the Taliban, the Frontier Corps started shooting at the Americans,'' we were told by one of Suran Dara's villagers, who, like the others, spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of being persecuted or killed by the Pakistani government or the Taliban. ''They were trying to help the Taliban. And then the American planes bombed the Pakistani post.'' 
 For years, the villagers said, Suran Dara served as a safe haven for jihadist fighters -- whether from Afghanistan or Pakistan or other countries -- giving them aid and shelter and a place to stash their weapons. With the firefight under way, one of Suran Dara's villagers dashed across the border into Afghanistan carrying a field radio with a long antenna (the villager called it ''a Motorola'') to deliver to the Taliban fighters. He never made it. The man with the Motorola was hit by an American bomb. After the fight, wounded Taliban members were carried into Suran Dara for treatment. ''Everyone supports the Taliban on both sides of the border,'' one of the villagers we spoke with said. 
 Later, an American analyst briefed by officials in Washington confirmed the villagers' account. ''There have been dozens of incidents where there have been exchanges of fire,'' he said. 
 That American and Pakistani soldiers are fighting one another along what was meant to be a border between allies highlights the extraordinarily chaotic situation unfolding inside the Pakistani tribal areas, where hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Taliban, along with Al Qaeda and other foreign fighters, enjoy freedom from American attacks.
 But the incident also raises one of the more fundamental questions of the long war against Islamic militancy, and one that looms larger as the American position inside Afghanistan deteriorates: Whose side is Pakistan really on? 
 PAKISTAN'S WILD, LARGELY ungoverned tribal areas have become an untouchable base for Islamic militants to attack Americans and Afghans across the border. Inside the tribal areas, Taliban warlords have taken near-total control, pushing aside the Pakistani government and imposing their draconian form of Islam. And for more than a year now, they have been sending suicide bombers against government and military targets in Pakistan, killing hundreds of people. American and Pakistani investigators say they believe it was Baitullah Mehsud, the strongest of FATA's Taliban leaders, who dispatched assassins last December to kill Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister. With much of the North-West Frontier Province, which borders the tribal areas, also now under their control, the Taliban are increasingly in a position to threaten the integrity of the Pakistani state. 
 Then there is Al Qaeda. According to American officials and counterterrorism experts, the organization has rebuilt itself and is using its sanctuaries inside the tribal areas to plan attacks against the United States and Europe. Since 2004, six major terrorist plots against Europe or the United States -- including the successful suicide attacks in London that killed 52 people in July 2005 -- have been traced back to Pakistan's tribal areas, according to Bruce Hoffman, a professor of security studies at Georgetown University. Hoffman says he fears that Al Qaeda could be preparing a major attack before the American presidential election. ''I'm convinced they are planning something,'' he told me. 
 At the center of all this stands the question of whether Pakistan really wants to control the Talibs and their Qaeda allies ensconced in the tribal areas -- and whether it really can. 
 This was not supposed to be a major worry. After the attacks of Sept. 11, President Pervez Musharraf threw his lot in with the United States. Pakistan has helped track down Al Qaeda suspects, launched a series of attacks against militants inside the tribal areas -- a new offensive got under way just weeks ago -- and given many assurances of devotion to the antiterrorist cause. For such efforts, Musharraf and the Pakistani government have been paid handsomely, receiving more than $10 billion in American money since 2001. 
 But as the incident on the Afghan border suggests, little in Pakistan is what it appears. For years, the survival of Pakistan's military and civilian leaders has depended on a double game: assuring the United States that they were vigorously repressing Islamic militants -- and in some cases actually doing so -- while simultaneously tolerating and assisting the same militants. From the anti-Soviet fighters of the 1980s and the Taliban of the 1990s to the homegrown militants of today, Pakistan's leaders have been both public enemies and private friends. 
 When the game works, it reaps great rewards: billions in aid to boost the Pakistani economy and military and Islamist proxies to extend the government's reach into Afghanistan and India. 
 Pakistan's double game has rested on two premises: that the country's leaders could keep the militants under control and that they could keep the United States sufficiently placated to keep the money and weapons flowing. But what happens when the game spins out of control? What happens when the militants you have been encouraging grow too strong and set their sights on Pakistan itself? What happens when the bluff no longer works? 
 II. Being a Warlord
 Late in June, to great fanfare, the Pakistani military began what it described as a decisive offensive to rout the Taliban from Khyber agency, one of seven tribal areas that make up the FATA. ''Forces Move In on Militants,'' declared a headline in Dawn, one of Pakistan's most influential newspapers. Reporters were kept away, but footage on Pakistani television showed troops advancing behind trucks and troop carriers. The Americans were pleased. ''We think that's a positive development and certainly hope and expect that this government will continue,'' Tom Casey, the deputy spokesman at the State Department, said. 
 The situation was serious indeed: Peshawar, the capital of North-West Frontier Province and just east of Khyber agency, was almost entirely surrounded by Taliban militias, which had begun making forays into the city. The encirclement of Peshawar was the culmination of the Taliban's advance: first they conquered the tribal areas, then much of the North-West Frontier Province, and now they were aiming for the province's capital itself. The Talibs were cutting their well-known medieval path: shutting girls' schools, banishing women from the streets, blowing up CD kiosks and beating barbers for shaving beards. 
 A few days into the military operation, the photographer Lynsey Addario and I, dressed in traditional clothes and with a posse of gunmen protecting us, rode into Khyber agency ourselves. ''Entry by Foreigners Prohibited Beyond This Point,'' the sign said on the way in. As we drove past the dun-colored buildings and corrugated-tin shops, every trace of government authority vanished. No policemen, no checkpoints, no guards. Nothing to keep us from our appointment with the Taliban. 
 It was a Friday afternoon, and our guides suggested we pull off the main road until prayers were over; local Taliban enforcers, they said, would not take kindly to anyone skipping prayers. For a couple of hours we waited inside the home of an uncle of one of our guides, listening to the muezzin call the locals to battle.
 ''What is the need of the day?'' a man implored in Pashto over a loudspeaker. ''Holy war -- holy war is the need of the day!'' 
 After a couple of hours, we resumed our journey, traveling down a mostly empty road. And that is when it struck me: there was no evidence, anywhere, of the military operation that had made the news. There were no Pakistani soldiers, no trucks, no tanks. Nothing. 
 After a couple of miles, we turned off the road and headed down a sandy path toward a high-walled compound guarded by young men with guns. I had come to my destination: Takya, the home village of Haji Namdar, a Taliban commander who had taken control of a large swath of Khyber agency. 
 Pulling into Namdar's compound, I felt transported back in time to the Kabul of the 1990s, when the Taliban were at their zenith. A group of men and boys -- jittery, clutching rifles and rocket-propelled grenades -- sat in the bed of a Toyota Hi-Lux, the same model of truck the Taliban used to ride to victory in Afghanistan. A flag nearly identical to that of the Afghan movement -- a pair of swords crossed against a white background -- fluttered in the heavy air. Even the name of Namdar's group, the Vice and Virtue brigade, came straight from the Taliban playbook: in the 1990s, bands of young men under the same name terrorized Afghanistan, flogging men for shaving their beards, caning women for walking alone and thrashing children for flying kites. 
 The young fighters were chattering excitedly about a missile that had recently destroyed one of their ammunition dumps. An American missile, the kids said. ''It was a plane without a pilot,'' one of the boys explained through an interpreter. His eyes darted back and forth among his fellows. ''We saw a flash. And then the building exploded.'' 
 His description matched that of a Predator, an airborne drone that America uses to hunt militants in the tribal areas. Publicly, at least, the Predator is the only American presence the Pakistani government has so far allowed inside its borders.
 We walked into the compound's main building. In a corner, Namdar sat on the floor, wearing a traditional salwar kameez, but also a vest that looked as if it had been plucked from a three-piece suit. He stood to shake my hand, and he gave a small bow. To break the ice, I handed him a map of Pakistan and asked him to show me where we were. Namdar peered at the chart for several seconds, his eyes registering nothing. He handed it to one of his deputies. He resumed his stare. 
 Trying again, I asked about the Pakistani military operation -- the one that was supposed to be unfolding right now, chasing the Taliban from Khyber. 
 Why, I asked Namdar, aren't the Pakistani forces coming after you? 
 ''The government cannot do anything to us, because we are fighting the holy war,'' he said. ''We are fighting the foreigners -- it is our obligation. They are killing innocent people.'' Namdar's aides, one of whom spoke fluent English, looked at him and shook their heads to make him speak more cautiously. Namdar carried on. 
 ''When the Americans kill innocent people, we must take revenge,'' he said. 
 Tell me about that, I asked Namdar, and his aides again shook their heads. Finally Namdar changed his line. ''Well, we can't stop anyone from going across'' into Afghanistan, he said. ''I'm not saying we send them ourselves.'' And with that, Namdar raised his hand, declining to offer any more details. 
 By many accounts -- on the streets, among Western analysts, even according to his own deputies -- Namdar was regularly training and dispatching young men to fight and blow themselves up in Afghanistan. An aide, Munsif Khan, told me that his group had sent ''hundreds of people'' to fight the Americans. At one point, he described for me how the Vice and Virtue brigade had recently set a minimum-age requirement for suicide bombers. ''We are opposed to children carrying out suicide bombings,'' Khan said. ''We get so many young people coming to us -- 15, 16 years old -- wanting to go on martyrdom operations. This is not the age to be a suicide bomber. Any man who wants to be a suicide bomber should be at least 20 or 25.'' 
 Khan himself, a former magazine reporter in Peshawar, had been gravely wounded in a car-bomb attack last year. His feet were mangled, and he could walk only with crutches. A bloody struggle for power rages among the many Taliban warlords of the FATA; Khan said his assailants had likely been dispatched by Baitullah Mehsud, the powerful warlord in South Waziristan, because Namdar had refused to submit to Mehsud's authority. 
 Another of Namdar's aides had spoken enthusiastically of his commander's prowess in battle. ''He is a great fighter!'' the aide told me. ''He goes to Afghanistan every month to fight the Americans.'' 
 So here was Namdar -- Taliban chieftain, enforcer of Islamic law, usurper of the Pakistani government and trainer and facilitator of suicide bombers in Afghanistan -- sitting at home, not three miles from Peshawar, untouched by the Pakistani military operation that was supposedly unfolding around us. 
 What's going on? I asked the warlord. Why aren't they coming for you?
 ''I cannot lie to you,'' Namdar said, smiling at last. ''The army comes in, and they fire at empty buildings. It is a drama -- it is just to entertain.'' 
 Entertain whom? I asked. 
 ''America,'' he said. 
 III. Playing the Game
 The idea that Pakistan's military and intelligence agencies could simultaneously be aiding the Taliban and like-minded militants while taking money from the United States is not as far-fetched as it may seem. 
 The relationship dates to the 1980s, when, following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Pakistan became the conduit for billions of dollars of American and Saudi money for the Afghan rebels. Pakistan's leader, the fundamentalist Gen. Zia ul-Haq, funneled the bulk of the cash to the most religiously extreme guerrilla leaders. After the Soviet Union withdrew in 1989, Pakistani military and intelligence services kept on supporting Islamist militants, notably in the Muslim-majority Indian state of Kashmir, where they threw their support behind a local uprising. Through time, with the Pakistanis closely involved, the Kashmiri movement was taken over by Islamist extremists and foreign fighters who moved easily between Pakistan and Kashmir. 
 Then, in 1994, Pakistani leaders made their most fateful move. Alarmed by the civil war that engulfed Afghanistan following the Soviet retreat, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and her government intervened on behalf of a small group of former anti-Soviet fighters known for their religious fanaticism. They called themselves ''the students'': the Taliban. 
 With Pakistan providing support and the United States looking the other way, the Taliban took control of Kabul in 1996. ''We created the Taliban,'' Nasrullah Babar, the interior minister under Benazir Bhutto, told me in an interview at his home in Peshawar in 1999. ''Mrs. Bhutto had a vision: that through a peaceful Afghanistan, Pakistan could extend its influence into the resource-rich territories of Central Asia.'' That never happened -- the Taliban, even with Pakistani support, never completed the conquest of Afghanistan. But the training camps they ran, sometimes with the help of Pakistani intelligence officers, were beacons to Islamic militants from around the world. 
 By all accounts, Pakistan's spymasters were never terribly discriminating about who showed up in their training camps. In 1998, when President Bill Clinton ordered missile strikes against camps in Afghanistan following Al Qaeda's bombings of American embassies in East Africa, several trainers from Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI, were killed. Osama bin Laden was supposed to be there when the missiles struck but apparently had already left. 
 After 9/11, President George W. Bush and other senior American officials declared in the strongest terms that Pakistani leaders had to end their support for the Taliban and other Islamic militants. Pakistan's military dictator, Pervez Musharraf, promised to do so. 
 Yet the game did not end; it merely changed. In the years after 9/11, Musharraf often made great shows of going after militants inside Pakistan, while at the same time supporting and protecting them. 
 In 2002, for instance, Musharraf ordered the arrest of some 2,000 suspected militants, many of whom had trained in Pakistani-sponsored camps. And then, quietly, he released nearly all of them. Another revealing moment came in 2005, when Fazlur Rehman, the leader of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, one of the most radical Islamist parties, denounced Musharraf for denying the existence of jihadi groups. Everyone knows, Rehman said in a speech before Pakistan's National Assembly, that the government supports the holy warriors. ''We will have to openly tell the world whether we want to support jihadis or crack down on them,'' Rehman declared. ''We cannot afford to be hypocritical any more.'' 
 In 2006, a senior ISI official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told a New York Times reporter that he regarded Serajuddin Haqqani as one of the ISI's intelligence assets. ''We are not apologetic about this,'' the ISI official said. For a presumed ally of the United States, that was a stunning admission: Haqqani, an Afghan, is currently one of the Taliban's most senior commanders battling the Americans in eastern Afghanistan. His father, Jalaluddin, is a longtime associate of bin Laden's. The Haqqanis are believed to be overseeing operations from a hiding place in the Pakistani tribal agency of North Waziristan. 
 But such evidence, however intriguing, fails to answer the critical questions: Exactly who in the Pakistani government is helping the militants and why? 
 THE MOST COMMON THEORY offered to explain Pakistan's continued contact with Islamic militants is the country's obsession with India. Pakistan has fought three major wars with India, from which it split violently upon independence from Britain in 1947. To the east, the Pakistani military and intelligence services have long tolerated and sometimes directed militants moving into Indian Kashmir. To the west, Afghanistan has long been seen as a potentially critical arena of competition with India. After the U.S.-led invasion in the fall of 2001, for example, India lost no time in setting up consulates throughout Afghanistan and beginning an extensive aid program. According to Pakistani and Western officials, Pakistan's officer corps remains obsessed by the prospect of Indian domination of Afghanistan should the Americans leave. The Taliban are seen as a counterweight to Indian influence. ''We are saving the Taliban for a rainy day,'' one former Pakistani official put it to me. 
 Another explanation is growing popular hatred of the United States. Pakistan's leaders -- whether Musharraf or the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, or the country's leading civilian politicians -- are finding it more and more difficult to mobilize their own army and intelligence services to act against the Taliban and other militants inside the country. And while the Pakistan Army used to be a predominantly secular institution, increasingly it is being led by Islamist-minded officers. 
 The pro-Islamist and anti-American sentiments pervading the armed forces might help explain why a group of ill-trained, underpaid Pakistani Frontier Corps soldiers would open fire on American troops fighting the Taliban. Those same sentiments buttress the notion, offered by some American and Pakistani officials, that rogue officers inside the army and ISI are supporting the militants against the wishes of their superiors. 
 Finally, there is the problem of the Pakistan Army's competence. For all the myths that officers like Musharraf have spread about the institution, the simple fact is that it isn't very good. The Pakistan Army has lost every war it has ever fought. And it isn't trained to battle an insurgency. Each of the half-dozen offensives the army has launched into the tribal areas since 2004 has left it bloodied and humbled. 
 For all these reasons, when it comes to the militants in their midst, it's easier for Pakistan to do as little as possible. 
 ''There is a growing Islamist feeling in the military, and it's inseparable from anti-Americanism,'' I was told by a Western military officer with several years' experience in the region. ''The vast majority of Pakistani officers feel they are fighting our war. There is a lot of sympathy for the Taliban. The result is that the Pakistanis do as little as they possibly can to combat the militants.'' 
 These are reasonable explanations, offered by reasonable people. But are such explanations enough? The more Pakistanis I talked to, the more I came to believe that the most reasonable explanations were not necessarily the most plausible ones. 
 ONE SWELTERING AFTERNOON in July, I ventured into the elegant home of a former Pakistani official who recently retired after several years of serving in senior government posts. We sat in his book-lined study. A servant brought us tea and biscuits. 
 Was it the obsession with India that led the Pakistani military to support the Taliban? I asked him.
 ''Yes,'' he said. 
 Or is it the anti-Americanism and pro-Islamic feelings in the army? 
 ''Yes,'' he said, that too.
 And then the retired Pakistani official offered another explanation -- one that he said could never be discussed in public. The reason the Pakistani security services support the Taliban, he said, is for money: after the 9/11 attacks, the Pakistani military concluded that keeping the Taliban alive was the surest way to win billions of dollars in aid that Pakistan needed to survive. The military's complicated relationship with the Taliban is part of what the official called the Pakistani military's ''strategic games.'' Like other Pakistanis, this former senior official spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of what he was telling me. 
 ''Pakistan is dependent on the American money that these games with the Taliban generate,'' the official told me. ''The Pakistani economy would collapse without it. This is how the game works.'' 
 As an example, he cited the Pakistan Army's first invasion of the tribal areas -- of South Waziristan in 2004. Called Operation Shakai, the offensive was ostensibly aimed at ridding the area of Taliban militants. From an American perspective, the operation was a total failure. The army invaded, fought and then made a deal with one of the militant commanders, Nek Mohammed. The agreement was capped by a dramatic meeting between Mohammed and Safdar Hussein, one of the most senior officers in the Pakistan Army. 
 ''The corps commander was flown in on a helicopter,'' the former official said. ''They had this big ceremony, and they embraced. They called each other mujahids. '' 
 ''Mujahid'' is the Arabic word for ''holy warrior.'' The ceremony, in fact, was captured on videotape, and the tape has been widely distributed. 
 ''The army agreed to compensate the locals for collateral damage,'' the official said. ''Where do you think that money went? It went to the Taliban. Who do you think paid the bill? The Americans. This is the way the game works. The Taliban is attacked, but it is never destroyed. 
 ''It's a game,'' the official said, wrapping up our conversation. ''The U.S. is being taken for a ride.''
 IV. A New Government, A New Tack
 In February, nationwide elections lifted to power Pakistan's first full-fledged civilian government in nine years. The elections followed the tumultuous events of Benazir Bhutto's return from exile and her assassination. 
 If there was any reason to hope that the government's games with the Taliban would end, this was it: Pakistan's new leaders declared they had a popular mandate to steer the country in a new direction. That meant, implicitly, reining in the military and the spy agencies. At the same time, the country's new civilian leaders, led by Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani, made it clear that they would not be taking orders from officials in the Bush administration, whom they resented for having supported Musharraf for so long. (Musharraf, facing impeachment, finally resigned from the presidency last month.) Instead of launching military operations into the tribal areas, Pakistan's new leaders promised to embark on negotiations to neutralize the militants.
 The leader of this new civilian effort in the tribal areas is Owais Ahmed Ghani, governor of the North-West Frontier Province. Since February, Ghani is said to have embarked on a series of negotiations in tribal areas. 
 I went to see Ghani earlier this summer at the governor's mansion in Peshawar, inside a lovely compound built by the British at the height of their imperial power. Ghani seemed as if he might have stepped from the Raj himself: he gave off an air of faint amusement, a British affectation common in the upper tiers of Pakistani society. On his wall hung a British-made Enfield rifle, preserved from colonial days. Outside, peacocks strolled across the manicured lawn.
 ''You know the joke about the Pathans,'' Ghani began, using the old British name for the Pashtuns, the ethnic group that dominates the tribal areas and the Taliban. ''A Pathan's heart hammers harder when he has a gun than a woman!''
 Suddenly turning serious, Ghani spelled out a state-of-the-art counterinsurgency campaign to defeat the militants in control of the FATA. He emphasized that the purely military approach to the tribal areas had failed -- not merely because the army has been unable to succeed militarily but also because it no longer could count on popular support. ''No government can afford to make war on its own people for very long,'' Ghani said. 
 The new approach, Ghani said, would entail negotiations and economic development. Under the plan, the government would pour billions into the region over the next five years to build schools, roads and health clinics. (The United States has agreed to pitch in $750 million.) The political negotiations, Ghani said, would be conducted by civilian members of the government and the region's tribal leaders, not, as in the past, by military officers and Taliban militants. Ghani called this new strategy ''Jang and Jirga'' -- the Pashto words for ''war'' and ''tribal council.'' Carrot and stick. 
 ''The idea is to drive a wedge between the militants and the people,'' Ghani said. ''There will be no negotiations with the militants themselves.''
 Ghani's previous post had been as governor of Baluchistan Province, to the south, where he had weakened an ethnically based insurgency that had churned on for decades. He said he was confident he could do the same here. ''Don't underestimate the Pakistani desire to confront the militants,'' he insisted. ''Ninety percent of the country is behind us.''
 It was sundown when Ghani and I finished talking. As I strolled across the grounds of the governor's compound, a group of soldiers had just begun lowering the Pakistani flag. Another man blew into a bugle, playing ''A Hundred Pipers,'' a Scottish air.
 FOR GHANI AND PAKISTAN'S civilian government, the crucial players in achieving peace are traditional tribal leaders whose power is independent of the Taliban or other militants. This method of governing the tribal areas -- indirect rule through local chiefs -- dates back to the British imperial period. The British put tribal leaders -- known as maliks -- on the payroll to stand in for the central government, which imposed no taxes or customs duties and, in turn, did very little. At the same time, imperial administrators reserved for themselves extraordinary powers of arrest and punishment that extended to collective reprisals against entire tribes. The purpose of the malik system was to keep the tribal areas quiet and at least nominally under the thumb of the imperial government. This preserved a feudal political structure, and feudal levels of economic development, into the 20th century.
 The British system, with a little tinkering, has survived to this day: the FATA stands apart from the rest of Pakistan, with little or no government presence and little or no development. Not 1 person in 5 can read or write. Pakistani political parties are banned. Universal suffrage wasn't allowed until 1997. Until recently, tribesmen could claim no protection by Pakistan's Constitution or its courts. Inside the FATA, the locals do not even change the time on their clocks, as other Pakistanis do, when daylight savings begins. ''English time,'' it is called. 
 A few days after my talk with Ghani, I met an elder of one of the two main tribes of South Waziristan. He refused to give his name and insisted that I refer to him as Jan. South Waziristan is believed to contain the largest number of militant Arabs and other foreign fighters, possibly even bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri. To be more specific about Jan -- to use his name, to identify the tribe he leads, to name the town where he lives -- would almost certainly, he said, result in his death at the hands of the militants and Taliban fighters who control South Waziristan.
 ''There are many Arab fighters living in South Waziristan,'' Jan told me. ''Sometimes you see them in the town; you hear them speaking Arabic. 
 ''But the important Arabs are not in the city,'' he continued. ''They are in the mountains.'' 
 Important Arabs? I asked.
 ''They ride horses, Arabian horses; we don't have horses like this in Waziristan,'' Jan said. ''The people from the town take food to the Arabs' horses in the mountains. They have seen the horses. They have seen the Arabs. These horses eat better than the common people in the town.'' 
 How do you know? 
 ''I am a leader of my tribe. People come to me -- everyone comes to me. They tell me everything.'' 
 What about Osama? I asked. Is he in South Waziristan? 
 ''Osama?'' Jan said. ''I don't know. But they'' -- the Arabs in the mountains -- ''are important.'' 
 The labor it took to persuade Jan to speak to me is a measure of what has become of the area over which his family still officially presides. Since it was not possible for me to go to South Waziristan -- ''Baitullah Mehsud would cut off your head,'' the Taliban leader, Namdar, told me -- I had to persuade Jan to come to Peshawar. For several days, military checkpoints and roadblocks made it impossible for Jan to travel. Finally, after two weeks, Jan left his home at midnight in a taxi so no one would notice either him or his car. 
 Jan had reason to worry. Seven members of his family -- his father, two brothers, two uncles and two cousins -- have been murdered by militants who inhabit the area. Jan said he believed his father was killed by Uzbek and Tajik gunmen who fled to South Waziristan after the American invasion of Afghanistan in 2001. His father had opposed them. Jan's cousins, he said, were killed by men working for Baitullah Mehsud. Jan's father was a malik, and thousands of Waziri tribesmen came to his funeral: ''the largest funeral in the history of Waziristan,'' Jan said. 
 The rise of the Taliban and Al Qaeda has come at the expense of the maliks, who have been systematically murdered and marginalized in a campaign to destroy the old order. In South Waziristan, where Mehsud presides, the Taliban and Al Qaeda have killed more than 150 maliks since 2005, all but destroying the tribal system. And there are continual reminders of what happens to the survivors who do not understand this -- who, for example, attempt to talk with Pakistan's civilian government and assert their authority. In June, Mehsud's men gunned down 28 tribal leaders who had formed a ''peace committee'' in South Waziristan. Their bodies were dumped on the side of a road. ''This shows what happens when the tribal elders try to challenge Baitullah Mehsud,'' Jan said. 
 Like Taliban militias in other parts of Pakistan, Mehsud's men have been strong-arming families into turning over their young sons to join. ''They have taken my own son to be a suicide bomber,'' Jan said. ''He is gone.'' The Talibs, he said, now control the disbursement of all government money that comes into the area. 
 The Taliban have not achieved this by violence alone. They have capitalized on the resentment many Pakistanis feel toward the hereditary maliks and the government they represent. Taliban leaders and their foot soldiers come mostly from the lower classes. Mehsud, the Taliban chieftain, was an unemployed man who spent his time lifting weights before he picked up a gun. Manghal Bagh, the warlord in Khyber agency whom the Pakistan military went after in June, swept public buses. ''They are illiterate people, and now they have power,'' Jan said.
 EVERYWHERE I TRAVELED during my stay in the tribal areas and in Peshawar, I met impoverished Pakistanis who told me Robin Hood-like stories about how the Taliban had challenged the wealthy and powerful people on behalf of the little guys. Hamidullah, for instance, was an illiterate wheat farmer living in Khyber agency when, in 2002, a wealthy landowner seized his home and six acres of fields. Hamidullah and his family were forced to eke out a living from a nearby shanty. Neither the local malik nor the government agent, Hamidullah told me, would intervene on his behalf. Then came Namdar, the Taliban commander. He hauled the rich man before a Vice and Virtue council and ordered him to give back Hamidullah's home and farm. 
 Now Hamidullah is one of Namdar's loyal militiamen. 
 ''There are so many guys like me,'' he said, cradling a Kalashnikov. 
 The social revolution that has swept the tribal areas does not bode well for the plans, laid out by Governor Ghani, to oust the Taliban by boosting the tribal elders. Nor does it hold out much promise for the Americans, who have expressed hope that they could do in the FATA what they were able to do with the Sunni tribes in Iraq. There, local tribesmen rose up against, and have substantially weakened, Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia. 
 Indeed, in some cases the distinction between tribe and Taliban has vanished altogether. Baitullah Mehsud, for instance, comes from the Mehsud tribe, one of the two largest clans of South Waziristan. (''The Taliban is the Mehsud tribe,'' Jan said. ''They are one and the same now.'' )
 Mehsud is the most powerful of dozens of Taliban chieftains who control the tribal areas. Some of them answer to Mehsud; some do not. The others are no less brutal: in July, for instance, in Bajaur tribal agency, the Taliban leader Faqir Mohammed staged a public execution of two men ''convicted'' of spying for the United States. One was shot; the other beheaded. A photograph of the men's last moments was displayed on the front page of The News, a Pakistani newspaper. 
 The chieftains' rivalries are intense, too. Six weeks after I met Namdar, he was gunned down by one of his bodyguards, in the very house where I met him. It isn't entirely clear who ordered the killing of Namdar, but many of his followers suspect it was Mehsud. 
 V. The Game Changes
 While most of the Taliban chieftains do share a basic ideology, they appear to be divided into two distinct groups: those who send fighters into Afghanistan to fight the Americans and those who do not. And that is an important distinction for the Pakistanis, as well as for the Americans. 
 After the rout of the Taliban government in Afghanistan in the fall of 2001, many militants fled across the border, and the Taliban inside Pakistan grew. At first, they largely confined their activities to the tribal areas themselves, from where they could send fighters into Afghanistan. That started to change last year. Militants began moving out of the FATA and into the rest of Pakistan, taking control of the towns and villages in the neighboring North-West Frontier Province. Militants began attacking Pakistani police and soldiers. Inside the FATA, Mehsud was forming Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, an umbrella party of some 40 Taliban groups that claimed as its goal the domination of Pakistan. Suddenly, the Taliban was not merely a group of militants who were useful in extending Pakistan's influence into Afghanistan. They were a threat to Pakistan itself. 
 The turning point came in July last year, when the government laid siege to a mosque in Islamabad called Lal Masjid, where dozens of militants had taken shelter. The presence of the militants inside Islamabad itself, Pakistan's stately, secular-minded capital, was shock enough to the country's ruling class. Then, after eight days, on orders from Musharraf, security forces stormed the mosque, sparking a battle that left 87 dead. The massacre at Lal Masjid became a rallying cry for Islamic militants across the country. Mehsud and other Islamists declared war on the government and launched a campaign of suicide bombings; there were 60 in 2007 alone. In an act of astonishing humiliation, Mehsud's men captured 300 Pakistan Army soldiers that came into South Waziristan; Mehsud eventually let them go. And then, in December, a suicide bomber, possibly dispatched by Mehsud, killed Bhutto. 
 The bloody siege of Lal Masjid, Western and Pakistani officials say, finally convinced senior Pakistani military and ISI leaders that the Taliban fighters they had been nurturing for so many years had grown too strong. ''Now, the militants are autonomous,'' one retired Pakistani official told me. ''No one can control them anymore.'' 
 IN JANUARY OF THIS YEAR, Pakistan opened an offensive into South Waziristan that was far fiercer than any that had come before. It inflicted hundreds of casualties on Mehsud's forces and caused at least 15,000 families to flee. Then, after just three weeks, the operation ended. As they had before, Pakistani commanders and Mehsud struck a deal. But this time, remarkably, the deal seemed to stick. The army dismantled its checkpoints and pulled back its troops, and the suicide bombings all but stopped.
 What happened? A draft of the peace agreement struck between the army and Mehsud may help explain. The agreement itself, which has not been officially released, provides a look into the Pakistani government's new strategy toward the militants. According to the agreement, members of the Mehsud tribe agreed to refrain from attacking the Pakistani state and from setting up a parallel government. They agreed to accept the rule of law. 
 But sending fighters into Afghanistan? About that, the agreement says nothing at all.
 And that appears to be the essence of the new Pakistani game. As long as the militants refrain from attacking the state, they are free to do what they want inside the tribal areas -- and across the border in Afghanistan. While peace has largely prevailed between the government and the militants inside Pakistan since earlier this year, the infiltration of Taliban fighters from the tribal areas into Afghanistan has risen sharply. Even the current Pakistani offensive, according to Maj. Gen. Jeffrey J. Schloesser, the top American commander in eastern Afghanistan, has failed to slow the influx.
 In short, the chaos has been redirected. 
 This must have been why Namdar told me with such confidence that ''fighting the jihad'' insulated him from the Pakistani government. The real purpose of the government's Khyber operation became clear: to tame Manghal Bagh, the warlord who does not send men into Afghanistan and who was encroaching on Peshawar. Indeed, after more than a week of enduring the brunt of the army's assault, Bagh agreed to respect the Pakistani state. Namdar had been left alone by government troops all the while. 
 If channeling the Taliban into Afghanistan and against NATO and the Americans is indeed the new Pakistani game, then one more thing is also clear: the leaders of the Pakistan Army and the ISI must still be confident they can manage the militants. And it is certainly the military and ISI officers who are doing the managing -- not the country's elected leaders. When I asked Jan, the tribal elder, about the negotiations that Ghani had described for me -- talks between the country's new civilian leaders and FATA's tribal elders -- Jan laughed. ''The only negotiations are between the army and the Taliban, between the army and Baitullah Mehsud,'' he said. ''There are no government officials taking part in any negotiations. There are no tribal elders taking part. I'm a tribal elder. I think I would know.''
 Western officials agreed that the influence of Pakistan's new civilian leaders over strategy in the tribal areas was close to nil. ''Until the civilians get their act together, the military will play the dominant role,'' a Western analyst in Pakistan, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told me. The parliamentary coalition cobbled together earlier this year is already falling apart.
 ''It's a very close relationship,'' Jan said, describing the meetings between the Pakistan Army and the Taliban. ''The army and the Taliban are friends. Whenever a Taliban fighter is killed, army officers go to his funeral. They bring money to the family.''
 Indeed, American officials said in July that the ISI helped Jalaluddin Haqqani's fighters bomb the Indian Embassy in Kabul. The attack killed 54, including an Indian defense attache. American officials said the evidence of the ISI's involvement was overwhelming. ''It was sort of this 'aha' moment,'' one of them said. 
 VI. The Path of Jihad
 After I met Namdar, the Taliban commander, he ordered some of his young fighters to take me to the Afghan border. The mountains that ran along the border shimmered in the monsoon rains, and a new stream was running down from the peaks. It was this range, called the White Mountains, through which Osama bin Laden escaped from Tora Bora in December 2001. The Afghan frontier, the fighters told me, was a day's walk over the hills.
 It was along a similar route, two years ago, that an 18-year-old Pakistani named Mudasar trekked into Afghanistan to blow himself up. His family, who live in the town of Shakhas in Khyber agency, told me they learned of his fate in a telephone call. ''Your son has carried out a suicide operation inside of Afghanistan,'' a man said without identifying himself. There was no corpse to send home to Pakistan, so Mudasar's family and the rest of the villagers of Shakhas gathered for a ghaibana, a funeral without a body. 
 ''It is very respectable to die this way,'' Abu Omar, Mudasar's brother, told me one day at a cafe in Peshawar. Mudasar and Abu Omar were both part of the tide of young Pakistani men that has been surging across the Afghan border to fight the Americans. Abu Omar described his brother as intensely religious, without hobbies -- unlike Abu Omar himself, whose passion was playing fullback on the soccer field. ''Mudasar would lie awake at night crying for the martyred people in Afghanistan,'' Abu Omar said.
 What finally drove Mudasar to want to kill Americans was a single spectacular event. In January 2006, the Americans maneuvered a Predator drone across the border into Pakistan and fired a missile at a building they thought contained Ayman al-Zawahiri, Al Qaeda's deputy leader. The missile reportedly missed Zawahiri by a couple of hours, but it killed his son-in-law and several other senior Al Qaeda members. A number of civilians died as well, including women and children. Television footage from the scene, showing corpses lying amid the rubble, sparked protests across Pakistan.
 ''My brother saw that and resolved to become a martyr,'' Abu Omar told me. 
 Confiding in only his mother and brother, Mudasar enrolled in a local camp for suicide bombers. Abu Omar declined to tell me who ran the camp or where it was, saying such things were military secrets. ''There are many such camps,'' he said and shrugged.
 It was during our second meeting, in Peshawar's main shopping area, that Abu Omar agreed to talk about his own mission across the border. We sat in a shabby second-floor office in the Saddar bazaar. Last October, following the death of his brother, Abu Omar enrolled in one of the Taliban training camps inside Khyber agency operated by Mehsud's organization. The camp, Abu Omar said, was split into three sections: one for bomb making, one for reconnaissance and ambushes and one for firing large weapons. Abu Omar's section was given a heavy machine gun.
 ''Big enough to shoot down helicopters,'' he said. 
 Abu Omar spoke listlessly but in great detail. The militant camp sat within a few miles of the Afghan border, he said, and only a few miles from a Pakistan military base. Most of the volunteers were Pakistani, he said, although foreigners trained, too, including a Muslim convert from Great Britain. 
 ''He had blond hair, but a very long beard,'' Abu Omar said, breaking into his only smile of the afternoon. ''A good Muslim.''
 When the time finally came, Abu Omar said, he and about 20 of his comrades moved at night to a safe house near the Afghan frontier, in Mohmand tribal agency. They were just across the border from Kunar, one of the most violent of Afghanistan's provinces. There, he said, he and his comrades waited for two days until the way was clear. Then, when the signal came, they moved across. None of the men, Abu Omar said, were particularly worried about what would happen if they were spotted by Pakistani troops. ''They are Muslims,'' he told me. ''They support what we are doing.'' 
 Fighting in Afghanistan, Abu Omar said, was a hit-and-miss, sometimes tedious affair: once across the border, he and the other fighters sat inside another safe house for two days, waiting for word to launch their attack. Finally, Abu Omar's commander told them that there were too many American and Afghan soldiers about and that they would have to return to Pakistan. 
 The second time, the mission worked. Crossing into Kunar once more, Abu Omar and the other fighters attacked a line of Afghan army check posts just inside the border. Omar put his heavy machine gun to good use, he said, and four of the posts were overrun. ''We killed seven Afghan soldiers,'' he claimed. ''Unfortunately, there were no Americans.'' 
 Their attack successful, Abu Omar and his comrades trekked back across the Pakistani border. The sun was just rising. The fighters saw a Pakistani checkpoint and headed straight for it. 
 ''They gave us some water,'' he said of the Pakistani border guards. ''And then we continued on our way.'' 
 VII. The Rose Garden
 From the Rose Garden of the White House, you could just make out the profile of the Pakistani prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, sitting across from President Bush inside the Oval Office. It was Gilani's first official visit and, by all accounts, not a typical one. That same day, July 28, as Gilani's plane neared the United States, a Predator drone had fired a missile into a compound in South Waziristan, killing Abu Khabab al-Masri, an Al Qaeda poison and bombing expert. The hit was a significant one, and Al Qaeda posted a eulogy to al-Masri on the Internet a couple of days later. Gilani, according to the American analyst who was briefed by officials, knew nothing of the incident when he arrived in Washington. ''They just did it,'' the analyst said. The Americans pressed Gilani, telling him that his military and security services were out of his control and that they posed a threat to Pakistan and to American forces in Afghanistan. 
 At the Rose Garden, though, appearances were kept up in grand style. Bush and Gilani strode from the Oval Office side by side. Gilani laughed as the two leaders stopped to face the assembled reporters. Over to the side, to the right of the reporters, the senior members of Bush's foreign-policy team had gathered, including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her deputy, John Negroponte. 
 ''Pakistan is a strong ally and a vibrant democracy,'' Bush said. ''We talked about the common threat we face: extremists who are very dangerous people. We talked about the need for us to make sure that the Afghan border is secure as best as possible: Pakistan has made a very strong commitment to that.''
 ''Thank you,'' Gilani said, hesitating, looking at Bush. ''Now?''
 ''Please, yes, absolutely,'' the president said. 
 Gilani played his part. ''We are committed to fight against those extremists and terrorists who are destroying and making the world not safe,'' Gilani said. ''There are few militants -- they are hand-picked people, militants, who are disturbing this peace,'' he concluded. ''And I assured Mr. President we'll work together for democracy and for the prosperity and peace of the world.'' 
 And then the two men walked together back into the White House, with Rice and Negroponte trailing after them. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEJA VU: The Vice and Virtue brigade has taken control of a large swath of Khyber agency near the Afghanistan border. At the commander's compound in Takya, the author and photographer encountered a group of armed men and boys sitting in a Toyota pickup truck, reminding them of Kabul in the 1990s.(pg. 53)
PAYING THEIR RESPECTS: Munsif Khan, a spokesman for the Vice and Virtue brigade, greeting visiting Talibs at the Takya compound. He was injured in a car-bomb attack last year.(pg. 55)
MURDERED: Six weeks after Haji Namdar, commander of the Vice and Virtue brigade, was interviewed by the author, he was gunned down in his house by one of his bodyguards(pg. 56)
BE GOOD: This sign in a marketplace in Peshawar, the conservative Pakistani city close to the Afghanistan border, says, ''God is watching,'' which means that the Taliban are, too.(pg. 58)
 NORTH PASSAGE: The mountains behind Ayub Khan are the ones Vice and Virtue brigade members cross to wage the Taliban's war against American and NATO forces in Afghanistan.(pg. 61) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (66%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



142 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN GRASMERE, STATEN ISLAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Bucolic and Bustling, All at Once

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
OFFERING a stop on the Staten Island Railway and a short drive to the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, the Grasmere neighborhood in northeastern Staten Island has the singular advantage of convenience, according to residents.
If this sounds like a charmless merit, evoking early morning crowds and the like, consider that the pride of Grasmere becomes more evident when the day is done -- when the tidal flow of commuters washes back, away from the bustle of Manhattan and Brooklyn, to a neighborhood occupying less than a square mile with its own legitimate claim to the idyllic.
Grasmere is bounded to the north by the Staten Island Expressway, to the east by Hylan Boulevard, the south by Hylan Boulevard and Old Town Road, and to the east by Targee Street and the neighborhood of Emerson Hill.
A major attraction in the area's northeast corner is Brady's Pond, which covers 15 acres. The Encyclopedia of New York City describes it as the only freshwater pond within city limits to be fit for swimming. Complete with a sand beach, lifeguards and rowboats and pedal boats, the pond is the property of the private Cameron Club, which was formed in 1930 for members who lived within a prescribed area. Swans glide on the water's surface against a backdrop of lush greenery and large houses. 
''You don't even feel like you're on Staten Island when you're there,'' said Jerry Smith, the club's vice president. ''It's a jewel for many people in the area.''
For residents of the streets lining the pond, the many charms are evident.
The neighborhood's original creators ''were very selective when they made up the lake area,'' said Gene Reilly, an 86-year-old widower and club member who on a recent morning sat reading the newspaper on the front porch of his two-story house on Hillcrest Terrace, a shady street near the pond where he has lived for 45 years. He pointed toward Clove Road, one of Grasmere's main streets, noting that membership in the club was based solely on geography and that houses on the street's far side did not have it.
Mr. Smith, the club's vice president, said it was difficult to determine the logic behind the map, pointing out that his own home, though not terribly close to the pond, is included in it.
''It branches out to many streets in the area,'' Mr. Smith said, encompassing about 400 area homes. Ninety-nine families are currently members and pay $500 yearly for access.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
It was the proximity to Brooklyn that originally brought Rhonda and Mario Romano to Grasmere. Mr. Romano owned a pizzeria in Bensonhurst, over the bridge, and convenience led them and their three sons to a home on Steuben Street, a four-lane street connecting Hylan Boulevard to the Staten Island Expressway.
Seven years ago, with Mr. Romano now working closer to home, in Great Kills, they moved two blocks away to a four-bedroom four-bathroom brick colonial overlooking Brady's Pond, at the end of a cul-de-sac on Delphine Terrace. ''It was like a highway,'' Ms. Romano said of Steuben Street. ''And then we moved here, and it's like a country house.''
That difference reflects the variety of housing options in this neighborhood of about 6,500 people, from the quiet connecting streets -- and ''Dead End'' signs near the water -- to the small but growing condominium market.
A few blocks south of Brady's Pond is the smaller and less swimmable Cameron Pond, surrounded by modest ranches and gated homes of varying architectural styles.
Stonegate at Grasmere, a condo complex off West Fingerboard Road, a main street bisecting the neighborhood, was completed in the early 1980s and remains Grasmere's largest such development. The 313 units include two-, three- and four-bedroom town houses, said Laura Slavin, an account executive with Wentworth Property Management. ''The setting of Stonegate is very country,'' Ms. Slavin said. ''The streets are very quiet. It's a neighborhood within itself.''
Across West Fingerboard Road are the offices of The Staten Island Advance, the borough's daily newspaper, housed in a distinctive building of dark tinted glass set upon an orange brick base. On a recent morning, a man in running shorts passed through its doors, wordlessly placed two quarters on the receptionist's desk, took a paper from a nearby stack and strode briskly out.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
''You have a vast array of different price ranges in the same neighborhood,'' said Neil Litvin, the managing director of Robert Defalco Realty. In general, brokers say, Grasmere's convenience has helped it to weather the economic slowdown, though sales prices have fallen and homes tend to linger as sellers come to terms with the market's realities.
The crop of luxury homes near Brady's Pond, which can climb above $1 million, have remained relatively immune to such realities, said Paul Coglitore, a broker with Re/Max United.
''Luxury homes have been keeping their value a little bit more,'' he said. ''People looking for a home like that are more in a position to pay for it.''
This is often the case for pricier homes in Staten Island, Mr. Coglitore said, adding, ''There is not a tremendous turnaround in those areas, either.''
In the first half of 2008, Mr. Coglitore said, 37 units sold in Grasmere, with an average price of $437,500. By comparison, the first half of 2007 yielded 52 sales, with an average of $505,800.
Mr. Coglitore said that houses a year ago averaged 111 days on the market, and today they average 127 days, a figure that led Mr. Litvin to characterize Grasmere's current market as ''very stable.'' Rentals are scarce.
Stonegate condos start around $325,000; larger units, listed last year for more than $500,000, now run about $479,000, Ms. Slavin said. Mr. Litvin, who lives in Dongan Hills but is moving to Florida, bought his first home, a three-bedroom Stonegate condo, in 1986 for $121,000, enjoying the tennis court and the pool. ''It gave you the best of everything,'' he said of Grasmere.
WHAT TO DO
Hylan Boulevard, at Grasmere's southern and eastern borders, is the closest thing to a commercial thoroughfare, with several bakeries, restaurants and markets evoking the area's Italian roots. Residents and brokers also mentioned restaurants and sidewalk cafes along Bay Street in nearby Rosebank, or the recently restored boardwalk at South Beach.
The only park is Brady's Pond Park, a seven-acre patch opposite the private beach. And Fort Wadsworth, beneath the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, is operated by the National Park Service, offering tours of fortifications used for more than 200 years to stand watch over New York Harbor.
THE COMMUTE
Grasmere is a stop on the Staten Island Railway, with a 10-minute ride to St. George, the stop closest to the ferry. The Staten Island Expressway at Grasmere's northern border leads into the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
Grasmere is well served by buses. The No. 78 runs to St. George, the 79 to Brooklyn via the bridge and the 20 express to Manhattan.
David Vain, a broker with Talk of the Millennium Realty, said high gas prices made Grasmere more attractive.
''If you're buying a house somewhere in Staten Island, let's say Tottenville, it's going to take you 30 minutes just to get to the Verrazano Bridge,'' he said. ''By being in Grasmere, you're right there.''
For some residents, however, Grasmere's convenience presents a downside. ''Why should we be plagued with speeding and congestion,'' asked Alyce Arniotes, president of the Grasmere Civic Association, ''because we're so close to the bridge?''
THE SCHOOLS
Elementary schools include the William C. Wilcox School, Public School 48, on Targee Street, which teaches kindergarten through Grade 5. Of fourth graders last year, 92 percent met state standards in English and 98 in math, versus 61 and 80 percent citywide.
One middle school option is the Michael J. Petrides School, on Ocean Terrace near Milford Avenue, teaching kindergarten through Grade 12 and accommodating special-education students. An Education Department quality review last year judged it ''a school with many strengths.'' Also last year 78 percent of its eighth graders met state standards in English and 81 in math, versus 43 and 60 percent citywide.
Concord High School, on Rhine Avenue, teaches Grades 10 through 12 and had SAT averages last year of 401 in reading, 384 in math and 373 in writing, versus 438, 460 and 433 citywide.
THE HISTORY
Roderick Cameron, a mid-19th-century developer, named the area for Grasmere, an English Lake District village. In the 1880s, Mr. Cameron sold land to Philip Brady, who harvested ice from the pond that would bear his name.
ON THE MARKET 30 RADCLIFF ROAD A five-bedroom four-bath detached house, listed at $1.099 million. (718) 987-7900
111 HILLCREST TERRACE A three-bedroom one-bath detached house, listed at $515,000. (718) 987-3000
38 GRASMERE AVENUE A three-bedroom two-bath town house condominium, listed at $439,900. (718) 981-9991
Correction: September 14, 2008, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Two photographs of houses on the market accompanying the ''Living In'' article last Sunday, about Grasmere in Staten Island, were reversed. The picture of 111 Hillcrest Terrace was on the left and the picture of 30 Radcliff Road was in the middle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GRASMERE IDYLL: Brady's Pond is open for swimming and sunbathing to members of the private Cameron Club. The pond offers a sand beach, lifeguards, rowboats and swans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Grasmere, Staten Island, New York 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); LAKES (78%); BEACHES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010



143 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; MEMORIES OF CONTAINMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Grips With Russia's New Nerve

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB

 BODY:
WE all must think anew about Russia. But this process will prove harder for some of us than for others. When I grew up in the late 1960s and early '70s, the Soviet Union had already begun to look like the Ottoman Empire on its last legs; the face of Soviet Communism belonged to Leonid Brezhnev, with his drooping cheeks and beetle brows and thick, square glasses.
 What was there to fear from this pitiful giant? In my left-wing, antiwar, social democratic hothouse world, anti-Communism seemed almost as absurd as Communism. John Kennedy's call in 1961 to ''bear any burden'' in the struggle between two world systems was as remote to us as the sectarian debates of the 1930s between Trotskyites, Shachtmanites and so on.
 We were, unlike an older generation of ''cold war liberals,'' anti-anti-Communists. Fear of the spread of Communism had gotten us into Vietnam, and rationalized American support for right-wing dictators across the third world. That fear, to us, was thus a far more dangerous force in the world than the thing that we as a country were afraid of -- Soviet and Chinese expansionism. 
 ''The war against Communism is over,'' declared George McGovern, our tribune, in 1972. Several years later, a much more centrist figure, President Jimmy Carter, would lament the ''inordinate fear of Communism'' that he said dominated public discussion of foreign policy. (That remark looked slightly less sage after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.) 
 Of course, the Soviet Union continued to keep a chokehold on its own extended empire, sending tanks into Czechoslovakia in 1968; and it kept the pot of insurgency bubbling across Africa and Asia. Yet, drained of all of its ideological attraction and much of its menace, Russia just didn't seem to me very important, or at least very interesting. In ''A New Foreign Policy for the United States,'' a book written in 1969 that I read in college a few years later, Hans Morgenthau described the Soviet Union as a conservative and defensive power, driven by traditional national interests rather than ideology, and preoccupied above all with avoiding nuclear war with the United States. For all its bluster, it seemed eminently containable. 
 Russia had, in fact, been successfully contained; this was the era of summitry, detente and arms control treaties. A new generation of hardliners, soon to be known as ''neoconservatives'' and championed by Ronald Reagan, denounced the rapprochement as naive; but their dark view of Russia seemed to us at odds with reality. 
 When I visited Georgia this summer, I felt like I had entered a time warp. Everyone in Tbilisi talked about Russia the way people had in the United States in, say, 1962, the year of the Cuban missile crisis. Alexander Rondeli, president of the Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, said to me: ''The Russians talk about globalization, of course. But behind this is an absolutely black and white picture: It's ours. It's theirs. Everybody is enemy or vassal.'' Russia was a nation of ''bandits'' -- predatory, insatiable, calculating. ''And they are cynical about it -- they know that no one will fight for us.''
 It all seemed hyperbolic, and possibly paranoid -- a neocon nightmare in the Caucasus. But the Georgians had spent almost two centuries under the Russian boot. And then, a month later, Russia sent its tanks into Georgia, and Mr. Rondeli's worldview looked a great deal less far-fetched. The Georgians, of course, had provided a provocation by launching an assault on South Ossetia, the breakaway region on its border with Russia. But when the Russian Army not only ejected the Georgians from South Ossetia but moved further into Georgia, occupied major cities and destroyed infrastructure, the safety of the Ossetians began to look like little more than a pretext. Russia's prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, had apparently decided to teach Georgia, and its flamboyantly pro-Western president, Mikheil Saakashvili, a lesson they would not soon forget. 
 But what is that lesson? That is the question the West must answer. 
 Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, said last week that, like other countries, Russia ''has regions where it has privileged interests,'' adding that Russia has friendly relations with countries in its sphere of influence. Presumably this was meant more as an assertion of right than as a statement of fact. Moscow has amicable relations with Armenia and Belarus, which comport themselves with suitable deference, but extremely turbulent relations with Ukraine and Georgia, which have openly allied themselves with the West. Perhaps President Medvedev was trying to express delicately the view that Russia could have on its borders only enemies or vassals.
 This was plainly a very different Russia, if not from the containable one I grew up with, then certainly from the nascent democracy of the 1990s that aspired to join the West. Many American officials and analysts have condemned Russia's violation of Georgian sovereignty in language very much like that of the Georgians. Vice President Dick Cheney in Tbilisi last week told the Georgians they had endured ''an illegal, unilateral attempt to change your country's borders by force.''
 But it's not only cold warriors like Mr. Cheney who have characterized Russia as a rogue state. Richard Holbrooke and Ronald Asmus, former officials in the Clinton administration, compared Russia's assault on Georgia with Hitler's march on Czechoslovakia, airily justified by the alleged need to protect ethnic Germans. For the first time in almost 30 years -- at least since the invasion of Afghanistan -- Russia has come to be seen as a threat to world order.
 But though widely shared, this view is not universal. A number of scholars and diplomats argue that Russia acted not out of an age-old impulse for territorial expansion, or the wish to banish the humiliation and contraction of recent years, but in response to a series of intolerable provocations. It was we, not they, this argument goes, who had violated the status quo. 
 ''American unilateralism in the Balkans,'' wrote Flynt Leverett, another former Clinton diplomat, ''along with planned deployments of missile defense systems in Eastern Europe and support for 'color revolutions' in former Soviet republics, trampled clearly stated Russian redlines.'' This was, I suppose, the kind of view I once would have embraced, though I don't think I would have equated support for democracies with missile deployment.
 These two pictures offer very different understandings of the nature of Russia in the Putin era: It is either an expansionist, belligerent power whose ambitions are insatiable, or a ''normal'' state seeking to restore influence and regional control along its borders, commensurate with its growing wealth and power. 
 If the first, Russia had no right to demand acceptance of its ''sphere of influence.'' Invading a neighbor who poses no threat to you or others is, as President Bush put it, ''unacceptable in the 21st century.''
 If, on the other hand, Russia was essentially demanding its due, then the moralistic response was inappropriate (not to mention hypocritical), and America should acknowledge the legitimacy of Russia's concerns. The author Francis Fukuyama offered a variation on this theme, asserting that ''an adversely shifting global power balance'' means that the United States is no longer in a position to enforce its will, whatever the merits of the case.
 How you think about the nature and legitimacy of Russia's ambitions largely determines the response you advocate. Mr. Leverett argues that ''America's promotion of a dubious 'democratic' movement in Georgia -- or in other ethnically divided and unstable post-Soviet states -- is not as important to Western interests as working with Russia on the most significant energy, economic and international security challenges of our time.'' He and Mr. Fukuyama would quash the ambitions of Georgia and Ukraine to join NATO; more broadly, they would reduce the grasp of American policy to reflect our more modest reach.
 If, on the other hand, Mr. Putin's Russia has embarked on a drive for regional hegemony -- if not through conquest, then through intimidation and economic blackmail -- then the policy question is: How can the West block Russia's ambitions? Mr. Cheney promised the Georgians $1 billion in reconstruction aid and vowed to redouble American support for Georgia's campaign to join NATO -- an absolute redline for Russia. 
 Georgia's fate, however, rests not with President Bush, but with his successor. John McCain, a longtime friend of Georgia and President Saakashvili, has threatened ''severe, long-term consequences'' for United States-Russia relations, and has proposed offering security guarantees to Ukraine and Georgia, including NATO membership. Barack Obama, whose natural inclinations are less punitive, has also declared that we ''must review all aspects of relations with Russia,'' though he and several leading Democratic policy figures have been more cautious on the question of NATO.
 Of course, American policy will not be shaped only by our view of Russia. Our European allies, especially Germany and France, are more dependent on Russian energy and trade than we are, and far more directly threatened by Russian aggression. European officials, by and large, have been every bit as appalled by Russian behavior as Washington has been; but most have taken a less confrontational line. Sheer proximity made ideological anti-Communism an unaffordable luxury for Europe a generation ago; the same may be true for an anti-Russian posture today. 
 In America, though, where we do have the luxury, the struggle between Russia and Georgia feels almost Miltonic. Even some former '60s peaceniks find themselves sounding like neocons, who no doubt would say the peaceniks have finally woken up to the truth. Or perhaps there's another explanation: that there's all the difference in the world between an enfeebled and defensive empire, and a nation emboldened by vast wealth and brimming with resentment at past humiliations. This Russia does not look so very containable. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the challenge that the Russian invasion of Georgia poses to the United States referred incompletely to the background of Flynt Leverett, a foreign policy expert who has written that American actions had crossed ''clearly stated Russian redlines.'' Besides serving in the Clinton administration, Mr. Leverett also held various nonpolitical foreign policy and national security positions under President George H. W. Bush and under President Bush. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROLLING ON: Russian troops in South Ossetia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY LOVETSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.WK3) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN CRONIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (89%); COLD WAR (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (55%); JIMMY CARTER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



144 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD SEPT. 7-SEPT. 13 Film

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Film
 Stephen Holden
 History weighs heavily in films from Latin America, where the aftereffects of national traumas linger for decades. Can we leave the past behind? ''Kill Them All'' and ''Lamb of God,'' two of the stronger films in the Film Society of Lincoln Center's annual LATINBEAT series, which began Friday, explore the consequences of opening cans of worms. In ''KILL THEM ALL,'' directed by Esteban Schroeder, Roxana Blanco plays a human rights prosecutor in Montevideo investigating the kidnapping death of a Chilean chemical engineer who worked for Augusto Pinochet's secret police. At every turn she encounters corruption and stonewalling, including resistance from members of her own family. 
 In Lucia Cedron's ''LAMB OF GOD,'' set during Argentina's 2002 economic collapse, a 30-year-old woman (Leonara Balcarce), while negotiating the release of her kidnapped grandfather (Jorge Marrale), learns of his probable involvement with Argentina's military dictatorship in 1978. She can secure the ransom money from a wealthy general who was his close friend, but only on the condition that her mother, who worked in the underground resistance, not testify at a tribunal looking into those years. 
 Latinbeat is showing 28 films from Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Uruguay, Venezuela and the United States. Through Sept. 25, Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 496-3809, filmlinc.org; $11; $40 for a series pass.

GRAPHIC: Jorge Marrale in Lucia Cedron's film ''Lamb of God.'' FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); THEATER (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (93%); CHILE (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); URUGUAY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



145 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: When Too Early Is Right on Time

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN

 BODY:
FOR years, Adam Cunningham, a native Californian, dreamed about moving to New York. When he finally got the chance last spring, he had only two days, during a rushed business trip, in which to rent an apartment. 
 His primary obstacle was that he was looking two months before he actually intended to move in. In such a fast-paced market, everyone told him that was too far in advance. He felt, though, that he had little choice. 
 ''I know my work,'' said Mr. Cunningham, who is a creative director and producer in the entertainment field, working with high-profile clients. The next time he was in New York, he would be expected to hit the ground running, and he wanted to have his new home ready and waiting. ''Within an hour of getting off the plane, I would have work to do,'' he said. ''Work is six and a half days a week.'' 
 Mr. Cunningham, 25, is from Orange County, Calif. He graduated from the University of California at Santa Barbara and began his job in Los Angeles. 
 As a child, he visited New York each fall when his father ran the marathon. ''I found the city very inspirational,'' he said. In New York, ''the arts play a central role; in L.A., art is more dictated by marketing and consumer numbers and sell-through and sell-in,'' he said. ''Everyone said, 'You belong in New York.' ''
 Last spring, as he prepared to relocate to Manhattan, he gave up his downtown Los Angeles apartment in the Pacific Electric Lofts, where his rent was a little more than $1,300 a month, including parking. He figured he would save $1,000 a month without a car, in leasing and driving expenses. So he set his budget at $2,500.
 A colleague suggested that because he was thinking so far ahead, he post an advertisement on Craigslist to line up places to see during his two-day trip. So he did, saying he wanted a rental available in two or even three months.
 His replies included plenty of scams, like the one that insisted on payment for a fabulous deal before the keys were sent. Most agents who answered said they would be able to help him, but not for several weeks. 
 ''I tend to be a positive guy, almost to a fault,'' Mr. Cunningham said. So he was encouraged by one note from a couple expecting a baby. They were renting out their studio condominium on Second Avenue in the 70s. It had a dressing alcove with a California closet. The photos looked fine. They said their timing was flexible for the right tenant.
 ''I'm not too familiar with the city just yet,'' Mr. Cunningham wrote in one of a series of chipper e-mail messages. ''What's the official neighborhood name?''
 It was the Upper East Side. Mr. Cunningham had heard of it, though in his hurried business trips to the city, he had never been that far north. 
 ''I know TriBeCa, SoHo -- all of the places that are well known if you don't live in New York,'' he said. ''The Upper East Side, believe it or not, does not have the same consumer recognition. My friends said, That's where 'Gossip Girl' is; that's where the rich people live.'' 
 The neighborhood was too bland for his taste. ''I wanted something more downtown, more edgy, more organic,'' he said. ''I don't mean Whole Foods. I mean artistically forward.''
 And was that a bed in the kitchen? Where was the living room? What was this California closet thing? ''I figured, I'm from California -- maybe we just don't call it that out there,'' Mr. Cunningham said. He assumed it was some kind of huge closet. ''I think of California king, like a bed,'' he said. ''I couldn't figure it out, and I felt awkward asking.''
 He left quickly and met with an agent who had contacted him. Her company owned dozens of buildings. If he weren't hunting so early, she would have more places to show him, she said, but she took him to a studio on Leroy Street in the West Village. He loved the neighborhood but was horrified at the apartment's small size.
 ''Where I'm from, if you live in that kind of apartment, life isn't treating you too well,'' Mr. Cunningham said. 
 His last resort was a roommate situation at 45 Wall Street, a building popular with the postcollegiate crowd. Someone would be moving out of state two months hence and needed to fill his spot. The rent was a bargain -- $1,350.
 The building, though, struck Mr. Cunningham as outdated and dark. One roommate said, ''I hope you don't like direct sunlight, because we never get it.''
 The kitchen was decorated with beer bottles. It was ''an altar of accomplishment,'' Mr. Cunningham said.
 ''You get accustomed to a certain lifestyle -- and I don't mean in terms of luxury,'' he added. ''I wasn't ready to move into a place with other people in close confines.''
 He was out of options when, outside, he saw a sign for 20 Exchange Place and walked into the leasing office. ''Adam came in on his way to the airport, kind of frazzled,'' said the leasing agent, Sara Bohks. The place was being converted from an office building, so rentals were being offered far in advance. 
 The building is opening, in phases, from the top down. Mr. Cunningham picked a sunny, wedge-shaped 515-square-foot studio, with a spectacular view of the cityscape, for $2,495 a month, with a month's rent free. The security deposit was waived. 
 With the slow economy and a myriad of other downtown conversions, ''a lot of the buildings are offering incentives, so it's very competitive,'' Ms. Bohks said.
 Best of all, his lease wouldn't start for two months. ''It is a new building and they want to fill it up,'' Ms. Bohks said. ''Nobody lives here, so they don't need to wait for people to move out.''
 Mr. Cunningham arrived in July. The building's gym and lounge are not yet finished. Until the washer-dryers are installed, the building offers free wash-and-fold service. Mr. Cunningham plans to stick with the service, even when there is a charge. ''It is great marketing,'' he said. ''They are getting everyone used to it. It's a nice timesaver.''
 In his new situation, knowing few people in an unfamiliar city, ''it is tough to be surrounded by so many people walking around the streets all the livelong day and you are, like, 'Theater tickets for one,' but I am being patient and positive,'' he said.
 ''I already have my membership at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and tickets to the New York Philharmonic,'' he said. ''I am not going to let not knowing many people hold me back. I go to the theater every week by myself. Except for opera and ballet, I love it all.''
 E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A studio on Leroy Street was in a nice neighborhood in the West Village.
An apartment at 45 Wall Street had little sunlight and lots of beer bottles.
A rental building at 20 Exchange Place offered an attractive deal.
 Adam Cunningham moved into his 515-square-foot studio this summer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); MARATHONS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



146 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Microcosm of the Office But on Four Wheels

 BODY:
I LIVE in Brick, N.J., a 50-mile drive from my office in Ewing Township. I am a lawyer who investigates and prosecutes New Jersey lawyers accused of unethical behavior.
About four years ago, I met a woman at work who commuted by van pool. She was looking for an alternate rider for those days when regular riders were absent. With what gasoline was costing me, I jumped at the chance to become one.
At the time, I was working at the justice complex in downtown Trenton. Two years ago, when I moved to a building in Ewing Township, I decided to start my own van pool. First, I had to find enough people living on my route who were interested. V.P.S.I., a van-pool company that many New Jerseyans use, requires a minimum of six riders for each van. I knew about this company from my former van pool. 
I found the last person I needed when my husband and I were having a drink at a nearby crowded bar and he gave a woman his seat. We started talking, and she was a perfect candidate.
I'm the coordinator for our van, which V.P.S.I. leases to us, insures and maintains. I determine what each person pays, collect the money, pay the lease, recruit alternates and resolve disputes. I also drive the van one or two days a week.
The lease is normally $1,350 a month, but we receive a $175 subsidy from New Jersey Transit as an incentive because there is no mass transit available from our area to Trenton. I divide the remaining $1,175 by the 12 regular riders, which works out to $97.92 a rider a month. We all contribute for gas, the cost of which varies monthly. The amount depends on how much we received from the alternates who rode in the previous month.
In August, I raised the daily rate to $9 from $8 because of the higher price of gas. I felt bad, but the van is still a good deal. I've heard that on vans with only one driver, that person usually rides free. After all, that driver has all the responsibility and never gets to relax. Three people drive our van besides me, and we get a reduced rate.
There's one regular who is like an annuity for us. He hardly ever manages to make the van, so we get his monthly fee as well as the daily fee from the alternates who take his seat. We also have personality conflicts on the van, just like in an office.
Once when I was driving, a woman arrived late to her pickup point. I saw her and started backing up to let her board. Several members started yelling, so I slammed on the brakes but it was too late. I had hit a car behind us. Half the members got out and drove their own cars to work and half stayed with me. The officer who showed up was annoyed that everyone hadn't stayed.
Recently, we saw a car on the other side of the highway being chased by at least two state troopers who were soon joined by others. As the car tried to make a quick U-turn on the grass median, it flipped three times and landed 30 feet in front of us. I quickly pulled onto the shoulder and braked not 10 feet from the guardrail. About five troopers surrounded the woman's car. By the time they had questioned all the witnesses, we were delayed two hours. I got lots of compliments on my driving.
The van pool has been a godsend in this economy. When gas hit $3.50 a gallon earlier this year, my phone was ringing off the hook. Our waiting list for alternates became so long that some of the callers didn't wait. They started their own van pools.
I'm still friends with people I rode with on the first van, and I've made some good friends on this van, too. Last summer, a member got a new job in another part of the state. One evening we all met at a restaurant for a going-away party.
Recently someone suggested we interview potential alternates to make sure they're a good fit. Their first month of ridership would be a trial period, and we could vote them off the van just as people vote contestants off the island on ''Survivor.'' It is absolutely the way to go. As told to Patricia R. Olsen

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina Kennedy at the wheel of the van she organizes for fellow commuters working in Ewing Township, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010



147 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Q&A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 597 words

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
Will Hallway Improvements 
 Lead to a Rent Increase?
 Q I'm a rent-controlled tenant on a great East Village block, paying below $200 a month in rent. Our landlord is replastering, repainting and recarpeting the hallways for the first time in more than 30 years. Can he raise our rents because of this?
 A ''As a general rule, the owner of an apartment building is not entitled to a rent increase for ordinary maintenance work, such as painting and plastering,'' said Steve Dobkin, a Manhattan lawyer who specializes in landlord-tenant matters. 
 ''A rent increase for work performed in the common areas of a building is permitted only if the work qualifies as a 'major capital improvement' '' as defined by the state's Division of Housing and Urban Renewal. 
 To qualify for such an increase, Mr. Dobkin said, the improvement must be buildingwide; it must be for the benefit of all tenants; it must be for the operation, preservation and maintenance of the structure; and it must be deemed depreciable under the Internal Revenue Code.
 ''Before an increase can be allowed'' by the division of housing, Mr. Dobkin said, ''tenants must be given an opportunity to review and comment on the owner's application.''
 Acceptable grounds for opposing an application for a major capital improvement include that the work was incomplete or shoddy, that the owner failed to apply within two years of completing the installation or that there is a buildingwide rent reduction for an uncorrected existing violation, he said.
 ''The installation of wall-to-wall carpeting, covering the entire expanse of the common area, which is or was carpeted, may qualify for an M.C.I. increase if an owner can show that the useful life of the old carpeting has expired,'' Mr. Dobkin said.
 Although the Division of Housing and Community Renewal has not established a specific ''useful life'' for carpeting, an owner may satisfy the requirement by submitting the manufacturer's specifications for the expected lifetime of the old carpeting and ''before'' and ''after'' photographs.
 Health Problems
 And Co-op Obligations
 Q I recently moved to a co-op that does not allow washers or dryers in individual apartments (except for those installed before this restriction was enacted). Since moving in, I've had hives and rashes wherever my clothes or bedding rub my skin. After some sleuthing, my physician confirmed that I'm having an allergic response to detergent residues in the communal washing machines. The problem is very uncomfortable, and the antihistamines to reduce itching cause extreme drowsiness, which interferes with my work.
 Does my allergy qualify as a disability that would enable me to have a washer in my apartment?
 A ''The co-op's obligations, if any, hinge on the question of whether the allergies are so severe that they constitute a disability under the federal Fair Housing Act,'' said Steven Wurtzel, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer.
 Generally, Mr. Wurtzel said, to qualify as such the hives and itching would have to substantially limit one or more of the major life activities of the complainant.
 ''Here, there is no indication that the allergies reach that level -- the writer describes them as 'uncomfortable' -- and it seems to be the medication, not the condition itself, which is interfering with her ability to work,'' he said.
 Since these conditions, as described, would probably not meet the definition of a disability under federal law, the co-op would not have to offer a ''reasonable accommodation,'' like allowing a private washer in the apartment. JAY ROMANO 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An answer in the Q & A column last Sunday about a co-op resident who believed she had contracted hives because of detergent residues in communal washing machines misstated the given name of a Manhattan co-op and condominium lawyer. He is Stewart Wurtzel, not Steven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); ALLERGIES (83%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FLOORING (63%); LAWYERS (55%); TAX LAW (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



148 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3125 words

HEADLINE: THE VANISHING REPUBLICAN VOTER

BYLINE: By DAVID FRUM. 
David Frum, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, is the author of ''Comeback: Conservatism That Can Win Again.''

 BODY:
I LIVE IN WASHINGTON, in a neighborhood that is home to lawyers, political consultants, television personalities and the chief executive of the TIAA-CREF pension fund. Not exactly an abode of the superrich, but the kind of neighborhood where almost nobody does her own yardwork or vacuums his own floor. Children's birthday parties feature rented moon bounces or hired magicians. The local grocery stores offer elegant precooked dinners of salmon, duck and artichoke ravioli.
 Four miles to the southeast there stretches a different Washington. More than one-third of the people live in poverty. Close to half the young children are overweight. Fewer than half the adults work. The rate of violent crime is more than 10 times that of the leafy streets of my neighborhood.
 Measured by money income, Washington qualifies as one the most unequal cities in the United States. Yet these two very different halves of a single city do share at least one thing. They vote the same way: Democratic. And in this, we are not alone. As a general rule, the more unequal a place is, the more Democratic; the more equal, the more Republican. The gap between rich and poor in Washington is nearly twice as great as in strongly Republican Charlotte, N.C.; and more than twice as great as in Republican-leaning Phoenix, Fort Worth, Indianapolis and Anaheim. 
 My fellow conservatives and Republicans have tended not to worry very much about the widening of income inequalities. As long as there exists equality of opportunity -- as long as everybody's income is rising -- who cares if some people get rich faster than others? Societies that try too hard to enforce equality deny important freedoms and inhibit wealth-creating enterprise. Individuals who worry overmuch about inequality can succumb to life-distorting envy and resentment.
 All true! But something else is true, too: As America becomes more unequal, it also becomes less Republican. The trends we have dismissed are ending by devouring us.
 THE TREND TO INEQUALITY is not new, and it is not confined to the United States. It has manifested itself just about everywhere in the developed world since the late 1970s, and for the same two reasons.
 The first reason is the revolution in family life. Not so long ago, most households were home to two adults, one who worked and one who did not. Today fewer than half of America's households are headed by married couples, and married women usually work. So America and other advanced countries have become increasingly divided between families earning two incomes and those getting by on one at most.
 The family revolution coincided with another: a great shift from a national to a planetary division of labor. Inequality within nations is rising in large part because inequality is declining among nations. A generation ago, even a poor American was still better off than most people in China. Today the lifestyles of middle-class Chinese increasingly approximate those of middle-class Americans, while the lifestyles of upper and lower America increasingly diverge. Less-skilled Americans now face hundreds of millions of new wage competitors, while highly skilled Americans can sell their services in a worldwide market. 
 As long as all Americans were becoming better off, few cared that some Americans were becoming better off than others. But since 2000, something has changed. Incomes at the middle have ceased to rise. The mood of the country has soured. Conservatives who disregard the mood of unease may forfeit their power to defend the more open and productive American economy they did so much to build.
 STEP ACROSS THE COUNTY line between Washington and suburban Fairfax County, Va., and you see the forfeiting process at work.
 A third of a century ago, Fairfax had only recently evolved from farm country to bedroom community. Some rich families clustered in the village of McLean, where Robert Kennedy had his Hickory Hill estate. Otherwise, Fairfax housed middle-class families looking for inexpensive housing and excellent schools. These middle-class families voted Republican, leading the Old Dominion's political transition away from its reactionary segregationist past to a modern business-oriented conservatism.
 Under its Republican leadership, Fairfax boomed. Giant shopping malls and futuristic office blocks beanstalked over tract homes. The population surged past the one-million mark. Today Fairfax boasts an economy bigger than Vietnam's. Fairfax households earn among the highest average incomes of any American county, more than $100,000, but that high average conceals wide variations between the highly educated and new arrivals speaking in 40 different tongues. With wealth comes diversity -- and what is inequality but diversity in monetary form? 
 The county's new wealth and diversity have created important new social problems. The schools are stressed. The roads are choked. Land use is more contentious. As Fairfax has evolved toward greater inequality, it has steadily shifted into the Democratic column. The Democrats Tim Kaine and Jim Webb won almost 60 percent of Fairfax's votes in, respectively, the 2005 governor's race and the 2006 U.S. Senate election. Democrats dominate Fairfax's local government. In 2004, Fairfax voted for John Kerry over George Bush, 53 percent to 45 -- the first Democratic presidential victory in the county since the Johnson landslide of 1964. Don't imagine that this is a case of the shanties voting against the mansions. Kerry won some of his handsomest majorities in the fanciest of Fairfax's 99 precincts. 
 In fact, Fairfax's Democratic preference is typical of upper America. In 2000, Al Gore beat George Bush, 56-39, among the 4 percent of voters who identified themselves as ''upper class.'' America's wealthiest ZIP codes are a roll call of Democratic strongholds: Sagaponack, N.Y.; Aspen, Colo.; Marin County, Calif.; the near North Side of Chicago; Beacon Hill in Boston. (Palm Beach, at least, remains securely Republican.) There is a long list of reasons for this anti-Republican tilt among the affluent: social issues, the environment, an ever more internationalist elite's distaste for the Republican Party's assertive nationalism. Maybe the most important reason, however, can be reduced to the two words: ''Robert Rubin.'' By returning to the center on economic matters in the 1990s, the Democrats emancipated higher-income and socially moderate voters to vote with their values rather than with their pocketbooks.
 Republicans still claim the support of the upper-middle, but by dwindling margins. Democrats increased their share of the vote among those earning more than $100,000 by 9 percentage points between 1994 and 1998. Between 1998 and 2006, Democrats increased their share of this upper-middle-class vote by 3 more points. 
 Till now, conservative strength in the vast American middle more than compensated for any losses at the top and for the immigration-driven expansion of the bottom. Indeed, the Democratic tilt of the very richest Americans could be exploited as a powerful conservative recruiting tool. Resentment of ''elites'' is a major theme of conservative talk radio. ''Who's looking out for you?'' demands Bill O'Reilly, as he excoriates ''media elites'' who vacation in the Hamptons, Aspen and the Virginia horse country.
 But O'Reilly's question has recoiled upon its onetime beneficiaries. Who is looking out for the Fox-viewing public? For most of the Bush administration, G.D.P. grew strongly, the stock market boomed, new jobs were created. But the ordinary person experienced little benefit. The median household income, which rose in the '90s, had only just caught up to its 2000 level when the expansion ended in 2007.
 You'll hear a lot of partisan roostering from Democrats about the superiority of the Clinton over the Bush economy. But the difference owes little to the policies of either president. Between 2001 and 2008, the amount that employers paid for labor rose impressively, at least 25 percent. Yet almost all of that money was absorbed by the costs of health insurance, which doubled over the Bush years. In the 1990s, thanks to the advent of H.M.O.'s, health-care costs rose more slowly, so more of the money paid by employers could flow to employees.
 Out of their flat-lining incomes, middle-class Americans have had to pay more for food, fuel, tuition and out-of-pocket health-care costs. In the past few months, they have suffered sharp tumbles in the value of their most important asset, their homes. Their mood has turned bleak. Almost 70 percent disapprove of the policies of George W. Bush. At intervals over the past two decades, Gallup has asked Americans whether the United States is a society divided into ''haves'' and ''have-nots.'' Back in 1988, more than 70 percent of Americans rejected this description. This year, the country split evenly: 49-49. When asked, ''Are you better off than you were five years ago?'' only 41 percent of middle-class Americans say yes, the worst result since pollsters started asking the question half a century ago.
 It's this pervasive economic unease that is capsizing the Republican Party, even as Americans have arrived in recent months at a somewhat more optimistic assessment of the progress of the Iraq war. 
 TO WITNESS THE SLOW-MOTION withering of the G.O.P., drive a little farther west into the Washington metropolitan area, to Prince William County. Here is exurban America in all its fresh paint: vast tracts of inexpensive homes, schools built to the latest design, roads still black in their virgin asphalt.
 Whether in Virginia, Missouri or Illinois, there are no more egalitarian and no more Republican places in the United States than these exurbs. The rich shun them, and the poor can find no easy foothold, but the middle-income, middle-educated, white married parents who form the backbone of the G.O.P. are drawn to them as if to a refuge. It's a modest-enough utopia, and comfortable equality has had its usual pro-Republican consequences: Republicans hold six of the eight seats on Prince William County's Board of Supervisors and all three of the federal Congressional seats that include parts of the county.
 Yet in the past couple of cycles, the once-tight Republican hold upon the county has loosened. Prince William voted (very narrowly) for Gov. Tim Kaine in 2005 and then (slightly less narrowly) for Senator Jim Webb in 2006. A big vote for the 2008 Democratic senatorial candidate Mark Warner seems almost certain, and a victory for Barack Obama seems very possible. 
 To echo an old Republican question: Who lost Prince William County?
 Republican economic management since 2001 has not yielded many benefits for middle-income America. Adjusting for inflation, the incomes of college graduates actually dropped by 5 percent between 2000 and 2004 -- and 44 percent of the people of Prince William are college graduates. Prince William is also ground zero for the middle-class revolt against the Bush administration's easy immigration policies. An estimated 10 million migrants have entered the United States since 2000, at least half of them illegally, and few places in the United States have reacted more angrily than Prince William County. Last year, the Prince William Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to require the local police to check the immigration status of all arrested persons. 
 It's widely understood that abundant low-skilled immigration hurts lower America by reducing wages. As the National Research Council noted in its comprehensive 1997 report: ''If the wage of domestic unskilled workers did not fall, no domestic worker (unskilled or skilled) would gain or lose, and there would be no net domestic gain from immigration.'' In other words, immigration is good for America as a whole only because -- and only to the extent that -- it is bad for the poorest Americans. Conversely, low-skilled immigration enriches upper America, lowering the price of personal services like landscaping and restaurant meals. And by holding down wages, immigration makes the business investments of upper America more profitable. 
 Middle-class Americans surely share in the cost-lowering benefits of immigration. But the middle class also pays the higher local tax bills that can result from immigration. Immigrants do not qualify for many federal benefits, but they do use the roads, schools, hospitals and prisons supported by state and local property taxes -- the taxes that fall most disproportionately on the middle class. 
 It is also clear that immigration thickens the ranks of the American poor. The poverty rate for post-1970 immigrants and their native-born children is almost 50 percent higher than for the native born. (In 1970, established immigrants were much less likely to be poor than the native born.) No mystery why this should be so: one-third of adult new immigrants have not finished high school. And there is reason to fear that this poverty will become entrenched: barely half of Latino students complete high school on time; 48 percent of births to Latino women occur outside marriage.
 IN SHORT, the trend to inequality is real, it is large and it is transforming American society and the American electoral map. Yet the conservative response to this trend verges somewhere between the obsolete and the irrelevant. 
 Conservatives need to stop denying reality. The stagnation of the incomes of middle-class Americans is a fact. And only by acknowledging facts can we respond effectively to the genuine difficulties of voters in the middle. We keep offering them cuts in their federal personal income taxes -- even though two-thirds of Americans pay more in payroll taxes than in income taxes, and even though a majority of Americans now describe their federal income tax burden as reasonable. 
 What the middle class needs most is not lower income taxes but a slowdown in the soaring inflation of health-care costs. If health-insurance costs had risen 50 percent rather than 100 percent over the Bush years, middle-income voters would have enjoyed a pay raise instead of enduring wage stagnation. John McCain's health plan, which emphasizes tax changes to encourage employees to buy their own insurance rather than rely on employers, is a start -- but only the very beginning of a start. Some Republicans have brought great energy to this problem. In the Senate, Robert Bennett of Utah has written a bill with the Oregon Democrat Ron Wyden that would require employers to ''cash out'' employer-provided health care -- and then midwife a national insurance marketplace in which employees would join plans that offered more price control and price transparency. Mitt Romney in Massachusetts put an end to the tax disadvantage that hammers consumers who buy health care directly rather than through their employers. Rudy Giuliani proposed a federal law to enable low-cost insurers in states like Kentucky to sell their products across state lines in high-cost states like New Jersey. But it remains unfortunately true that the Republican Party as a whole regards health care as ''not our issue'' -- and certainly less exciting than another round of tax reductions.
 Unlike liberals, conservatives are not bothered by the accumulation of wealth as such. We should be more troubled that the poor remain so poor. With all due respect to the needs of employers, Republicans need to recognize that the large-scale import of unskilled labor is part of the problem. 
 Meanwhile, the argument over same-sex marriage has become worse than a distraction from the challenge of developing policies to ensure that asmany children as possible grow up with both a father and a mother in the home. Over the past 30 years, governments have effectively worked to change attitudes about smoking, seat-belt use and teenage pregnancy. Changing attitudes about unmarried childbirth may prove more difficult. Yet it is a fact that the only way to escape poverty is to work consistently -- and that even after welfare reform, low-skilled single parents work less consistently than the main breadwinner in a low-skilled dual-parent household.
 At the same time, conservatives need to ask ourselves some hard questions about the trend toward the Democrats among America's affluent and well educated. Leaving aside the District of Columbia, 7 of America's 10 best-educated states are strongly ''blue'' in national politics, and the others (Colorado, New Hampshire and Virginia) have been trending blue. Of the 10 least-educated, only one (Nevada) is not reliably Republican. And so we arrive at a weird situation in which the party that identifies itself with markets, with business and with technology cannot win the votes of those who have prospered most from markets, from business and from technology. Republicans have been badly hurt in upper America by the collapse of their onetime reputation for integrity and competence. Upper Americans live in a world in which things work. The packages arrive overnight. The car doors clink seamlessly shut. The prevailing Republican view -- ''of course government always fails, what do you expect it to do?'' -- is not what this slice of America expects to hear from the people asking to be entrusted with the government.
 It is probable that the trend to inequality will grow even stronger in the years ahead, if new genetic techniques offer those with sufficient resources the possibility of enhancing the intelligence, health, beauty and strength of children in the womb. How should conservatives respond to such new technologies? The anti-abortion instincts of many conservatives naturally incline them to look at such techniques with suspicion -- and indeed it is certainly easy to imagine how they might be abused. Yet in an important address delivered as long ago as 1983, Pope John Paul II argued that genetic enhancement was permissible -- indeed, laudable -- even from a Catholic point of view, as long as it met certain basic moral rules. Among those rules: that these therapies be available to all. Ensuring equality of care may become inseparable from ensuring equality of opportunity.
 Equality in itself never can be or should be a conservative goal. But inequality taken to extremes can overwhelm conservative ideals of self-reliance, limited government and national unity. It can delegitimize commerce and business and invite destructive protectionism and overregulation. Inequality, in short, is a conservative issue too. We must develop a positive agenda that integrates the right kind of egalitarianism with our conservative principles of liberty. If we neglect this task and this opportunity, we won't lose just the northern Virginia suburbs. We will lose America. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOPHIA MARTINECK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: An Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CRIME RATES (69%); VIOLENT CRIME (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (57%)

COMPANY: TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



149 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Housing That Salutes An Industrial Past

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
IN Southern California, Venice has its famous beachfront, Santa Monica has stylish shops and restaurants, and Marina Del Rey, the yacht-filled harbor. Now a new neighborhood is vying for attention on the west side of Los Angeles: the Marina Arts District. 
 For decades, the neighborhood -- adjacent to Marina Del Rey and bounded by Washington Boulevard and Maxella Avenue to the north and south, and Lincoln Boulevard and Redwood Avenue to the west and east -- was a sort of no-man's land, home to auto body shops, light manufacturing and warehouses, along with a smattering of yoga studios and design firms. Yet it was also close to the beach, a bicycle path, numerous stores, restaurants and movie theaters, and just four miles from Los Angeles International Airport. 
 A 1993 rezoning plan paved the way for residential development, and many of the commercial structures have been torn down and replaced by modern, loft-style housing. A dozen or so projects that are completed or in the works will add roughly 1,000 residential units to the neighborhood. 
 Developers and city planners have high aspirations for the area, which they alternately nicknamed the Marina Loft District and the Del Rey Arts District before settling on the current name. (Others have skeptically tagged the area SoCo, in reference to the Costco store to the north on Washington Boulevard.)
 The developers envision an urban enclave of writers, artists and other creative, work-at-home types who are looking for more contemporary housing, walkable neighborhoods that are close to the beach and lower prices than can be found nearby in Venice and Santa Monica. 
 Their campaign appears to be working.
 ''There's a hip, young attitude now,'' said Lisa DeRose, a real estate agent and longtime resident of the area. ''It's bringing new life to the area.'' 
 For developers, the Marina Arts District has its own set of attractions. In traffic-clogged Los Angeles, city policies tend to limit growth and large developments, and parcels are typically small. But the Marina Art District's large industrial lots and pro-growth zoning policies give developers a measure of freedom they don't have in neighboring areas. 
 ''It makes it easier for a developer to put an imprint on a neighborhood,'' said Ken Kahan, the chief executive of California Landmark Development, a Los Angeles-based developer of urban housing that is completing its fourth project in the Marina Arts District.
 That imprint is decidedly modern. California Landmark's four projects, like others in the area, have taken inspiration from the industrial past of the area, with steel, concrete and glass exteriors, high ceilings and open floor plans. Its first project, a condominium development called G1 and completed in September 2006, was built to resemble an old warehouse, with 17-foot ceilings, exposed posts and beams and stainless-steel appliances. The next project, called R1, consists of concrete and steel row houses, or ''modern brownstones.''
 R2, a complex of 140 rental lofts that opened in May, includes amenities like a swimming pool, spa, outdoor fireplaces, fitness center and wireless Internet access. The fourth development, a 120-unit metal-clad building called G2, is being built in partnership with CityView, a company run by Henry Cisneros, a former secretary of housing and urban development. Construction is expected to be completed by year-end. 
 John Laing Homes, a builder based in Irvine, Calif., has two projects: Indigo, a 77-unit contemporary condo building completed earlier this year; and Element, a 50-loft building that is set to open this month. 
 The projects, interspersed among the remaining auto body shops and other remnants of the area's industrial past, are bringing fresh housing options and establishing a distinctive identity for the fledgling district.
 ''We've been starved for choice on the west side,'' said Jonathan Watts, a principal at the Cuningham Group, an architecture firm in Marina Del Rey that designed the Element and Indigo projects for John Laing Homes. ''The opportunity in the Marina Arts District has been to do something more interesting.'' 
 Element is constructed of precast concrete, which allows for more open floor plans and has the added benefit of keeping the lofts cool in the hot daytime sun, Mr. Watts explained. The building's 50 lofts, which range from high $500,000 to just above $1 million, are light-filled, with exposed beams and industrial detailing. 
 ''We wanted to recreate the kind of loft you find downtown,'' albeit from scratch, he said. 
 For all of its promise, however, the emerging district has not escaped the fallout from the credit crisis and downturn in the economy. Some developers have leased some units that were originally intended for sale. Others have fallen behind their construction schedule.
 Glencoe Lofts, a condo development by Marina Loft Ventures, has run into delays, and now its 100 loft units may be offered for rent rather than sale, according to people involved in the project.
 The Element, too, was initially expected to be completed last fall, a year earlier than its anticipated opening later this month. Of its 50 lofts, about 30 have been sold. Kathy Kerr, the director of sales for John Laing Homes, acknowledges that some sales were lost because of delays. But testament to the demand for such housing, some buyers have been willing to wait. 
 Camilo Castano, the owner of a translation service agency in Venice, plans to move into a one-bedroom loft in the Element this month with his wife, Paula, and baby, about two years after putting down the initial deposit. 
 ''We wanted something with architectural significance,'' Mr. Castano explained. ''It's also close to the beach, you can walk to stores. It offers a lot for us. It's worth the wait.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About a dozen residential projects have been completed or are in the works in the Marina Arts District on the west side of Los Angeles. They include the Indigo condominium development, above, the Element loft building, below left, and the R2 rental complex. Over all, approximately 1,000 units will be added to the neighborhood. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (89%); RETAILERS (78%); ZONING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FILM (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); AIRPORTS (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



150 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: A History Of Public Aid During Crises

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Despite decades of free-market rhetoric from Republican and Democratic lawmakers, Washington has a long history of providing financial help to the private sector when the economic or political risk of a corporate collapse appeared too high. 
 The effort to save Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is only the latest in a series of financial maneuvers by the government that stretch back to the rescue of the military contractor Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and the Penn Central Railroad under President Richard M. Nixon, the shoring up of Chrysler in the waning days of the Carter administration and the salvage of the savings and loan system in the late 1980s.
 More recently, after airplanes were grounded because of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Congress approved $15 billion in subsidies and loan guarantees to the faltering airlines. 
 Now, with the federal government preparing to save Fannie and Freddie only six months after the Federal Reserve orchestrated the rescue of Bear Stearns, it appears that the mortgage crisis has forced the government to once again shove ideology aside and get into the bailout business.
 ''If anybody thought we had a pure free-market financial system, they should think again,'' said Robert F. Bruner, dean of the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia.
 The closest historical analogy to the Fannie-Freddie crisis is the rescue of the Farm Credit and savings and loan systems in the late 1980s, said Bert Ely, a banking consultant who has been a longtime critic of the mortgage finance companies.
 The savings and loan bailout followed years of high interest rates and risky lending practices and ultimately cost taxpayers roughly $124 billion, with the banking industry kicking in another $30 billion, Mr. Ely said.
 Even if the rescue of Fannie and Freddie ends up costing tens of billions of dollars, the savings and loan collapse is still likely to remain the costliest government bailout to date, said Lawrence J. White, a professor of economics at the Stern School of Business at New York University.
 ''The S.& L. debacle cost upwards of $100 billion, and the economy is more than twice the size today than it was in the late 1980s,'' he said. ''I don't think this will turn out to be as serious as that, when over 2,000 banks and thrifts failed between the mid-1980s and mid-1990s.''
 Most of those losses were caused by the shortfall between what the government paid depositors and what it received by selling the troubled real estate portfolios it acquired after taking over the failed thrifts.
 In the Chrysler case, President Jimmy Carter and lawmakers in states with auto plants helped push through a package of $1.5 billion in loan guarantees for the troubled carmaker, while also demanding concessions from labor unions and lenders.
 While Chrysler is remembered as a major bailout, Mr. White says it was minor compared with the savings and loan crisis or the current effort to shore up Fannie and Freddie.
 In fact, the government did not have to give money directly to Chrysler, and it actually earned a profit on the deal because of stock warrants it received when the loan guarantees were provided. At the time, Chrysler had a work force of more than 100,000 people.
 Still, Mr. Ely makes a distinction between the rescue of Fannie and Freddie and the thrifts versus the aid packages for Chrysler and other industrial companies. ''They didn't have a federal nexus,'' he said. ''They weren't creatures of the federal government.''
 This effort is also different from the others because of the potential fallout for the broader economy and especially the beleaguered housing sector if it does not succeed. 
 Unlike a particular auto company or even a major bank like Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust, which was bailed out in 1984, ''we depend on Fannie and Freddie for funding almost half of our mortgage market,'' said Thomas H. Stanton, an expert on the two companies who also teaches at Johns Hopkins University. 
 ''The government,'' he added, ''has many less degrees of freedom in dealing with these companies than in the earlier bailouts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); AIRLINES (71%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); APPROVALS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GREGORY C CASE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



151 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE SELL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: In Harlem, Two Families Find Havens

BYLINE: By BETH GREENFIELD. 
E-mail: greenfield@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FOR Hans Futterman and his family, packing up and moving from one home to another is nothing new. ''We've been here three years,'' he said, referring to their current -- but soon to be former -- Harlem abode. ''That's pretty much a record for us.'' The moves have mostly been work related, Mr. Futterman, a real estate developer, explained. 
 But what's new this time around is that the place they will be leaving -- the top half of a renovated 1889 town house -- was developed, with much heart and soul, by Mr. Futterman himself. It was his first solo project, and the family has become a bit attached.
 ''It is a little sad to be leaving,'' he admitted on a recent tour of the space as his wife, Ellen Barnaby, a dancer with the company Dance by Neil Greenberg, smiled in agreement while fixing breakfast for their two youngest children; the oldest was at camp. 
 The duplex penthouse has an open loft feel, with four bedrooms, three full baths, skylights and a sprawling kitchen. A roof deck has views of the Empire State Building and the Apollo Theater, as well as the reason for their move: a soon-to-be-completed new-construction town house that Mr. Futterman is building just one block south, on 122nd Street.
 When it's finished this fall, they will move into the top triplex unit, which has a sleek, modern design and five bedrooms.
 ''Once you start doing this, you think, 'Gee, I really could use another room. And, wouldn't it be nice if we had a guest room? Wouldn't it be nice if we had a playroom?' '' said Mr. Futterman, 38, whose children, Max, Aidan and Liam, range in age from 12 to 6 years old. A dog named Gryphon is also in the mix.
 The plan from the start, Mr. Futterman said, was to inhabit the town house's duplex for just a few years, giving him a toehold in the neighborhood so he could get his other Harlem developments -- the new town house, as well as an 89-unit condominium tower still under construction -- off the ground.
 ''I wanted to find a building that I could buy and convert and use as leverage for other projects,'' said Mr. Futterman, who grew up on the Upper West Side.
 He wanted his family to settle in the neighborhood where his projects would be, and said he was attracted to Harlem because it reminded him of where he was raised.
 ''It's not very different from what the Upper West Side was in the '70s, which had real economic diversity,'' he explained.
 ''This is a real New York neighborhood, not a homogenous neighborhood. And that's the kind of New York I want to raise my kids in.'' 
 He found the town house in 2004, when he and his family were living in a two-bedroom rental on 110th Street. He paid $2.2 million to a seller who had already begun a gut renovation. Then he split the house into three apartments, spending an additional $500,000 to $600,000 in finishing the kitchen with white-oak plank flooring, granite countertops and a six-burner Wolf Range stove and in installing new bathrooms. 
 In 2005, Mr. Futterman sold one of the condo units and rented out the garden apartment. Then his family settled into the duplex, filling the main room with personal touches like works of modern art and a Baldwin piano. 
 In early spring this year, as construction of the new town house appeared to be on track for a fall completion, Mr. Futterman decided it was time to sell. The property was listed in March at $1.895 million. ''We knew it was on the high side,'' said Julia Boland, a broker with Halstead, ''but thought we'd push the envelope a little bit.''
 With her partner B. J. Engler, Ms. Boland hired a photographer who she thought would do the best job of capturing the property's style, and proceeded to hold five open houses. The brokers were surprised, though, when attendance was sparse. 
 ''Usually we have people flooding to open houses, but not this time,'' Ms. Boland recalled, adding that the open houses brought a total of only about 20 people. She thought the subprime mortgage crisis might have been a factor in the scant attendance. In addition, the sale dragged into summer, a typically slow time for real estate. 
 ''But we did have a very high ratio of serious lookers,'' Mr. Engler said. There was an Upper East Side family who looked at the place about eight times before deciding against it when their children were accepted by a private school in another neighborhood. 
 Also in that mix of serious buyers was Helen Chang, 22, a real estate analyst looking to move with her roommates -- her brother and two friends -- from a Flatiron rental. She was drawn to the space's size and design, but ultimately, she said, ''I think the bedrooms were a little too small for us.'' In addition, not everyone felt comfortable in the neighborhood, especially since they had looked at the place on the heels of a Memorial Day outburst of violence near Marcus Garvey Park, in which six teens were shot. ''It was bad timing,'' Ms. Chang said. 
 There were other lookers who also did not feel at ease in Harlem, Ms. Boland said, as well as one woman who preferred a doorman building and others who did not like that the penthouse was a walk-up. 
 When there were no offers by July, ''we were really ready to take a whole new tack,'' Ms. Boland said. The plan was to stage the roof deck -- which, though built and even wired for sound -- lacked furniture and plants. But just as she and Mr. Engler began pulling together quotes from stagers, the winning offer came in.
 It was from Sheridan and Dr. Ed Bartlett, who had spent the past seven years living in Katmandu, Nepal, where Ms. Bartlett, 62, worked as a consulting researcher and adviser for aid agencies and Dr. Bartlett, 68, maintained a psychiatric practice. The couple were looking to move closer to their grown children; and three of the four live in New York City. 
 ''My immediate reaction was not to want to see it,'' Ms. Bartlett said. ''It seemed much glossier than anything we were looking for.'' Still, their broker, Aaron Clayton of Bond New York, felt that the space was just right for them -- with a room where Dr. Bartlett could see patients and another for him to use as a studio to practice his artistic passion, painting. It also had space enough for Ms. Bartlett to have an office, as well as the outdoor area, which was one of their requirements. 
 The couple looked at the apartment after seeing eight other properties on the market, and having one offer fall through. ''The first time I saw it, I liked the space,'' Ms. Bartlett said. ''I liked the idea of having the rooftop for a garden.'' Once they made up their minds, they struck a deal for $1.7 million, signed the contract on July 30 and closed last weekend.
 So what was the clincher that made the buyers move so quickly? ''The place,'' Ms. Bartlett explained, ''was around the corner from my son.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE WAY: The Futterman family sold their four-bedroom three-bath Harlem penthouse last month for $1.7 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
THE PROPERTY: The duplex has skylights, a sprawling kitchen and a roof deck with views of the Empire State Building and the Apollo Theater.
THE SELLERS: Hans Futterman, his daughter, Aidan, 9, and son, Liam, 6, will move to a new-construction five-bedroom triplex. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE BUYERS Sheridan and Dr. Ed Bartlett, returning from Nepal, wanted to move close to their grown children in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); DANCE (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); DANCERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



152 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; RANDALLS ISLAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: On the Water, a Tight Fit And Nervous Boaters

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
THERE are times when the narrow strait known as the Bronx Kill, which separates Randalls Island from the southern tip of the Bronx, looks neglected. At low tide one recent Saturday, for example, a T-shirt and a surge protector lay on the bottom, along with the remnants of a car that had turned the exact color of the rocks it had settled on. 
 But for canoers, kayakers and other boaters, who know to come when the tide is just right, the Bronx Kill is home to blue crabs and schools of fish, and serves as a precious passageway connecting the East and Harlem Rivers. 
 ''It's a natural day trip -- float through, have a picnic and come back,'' said Rob Buchanan, the president of the Village Community Boathouse in Manhattan. 
 But navigating the kill can be tricky. Directly over the water are two concrete beams, built by Con Edison in the 1960s, that contain cables that carry power to Randalls Island. Sometimes a boater has about a foot of clearance under the beams, but at other times it's down to inches. ''It's tricky to time it, to get under the conduits,'' Mr. Buchanan said. 
 Now, in light of significant changes planned for the area, boaters' concerns have turned to this tight fit. 
 The first challenge was a plan to build a pedestrian bridge over the kill as part of the South Bronx Greenway project. When local officials and boating representatives heard the idea, they lobbied the city's Economic Development Corporation to ensure that the bridge would be high enough for boat traffic. After seeing preliminary renderings of the bridge, the concerned parties were satisfied.
 But now there is a second construction plan for the Bronx Kill. Con Edison wants to build more electrical conduits to Randalls Island to supply more power to a water treatment plant there. 
 The boaters say that if Con Ed proceeds with this project, it might as well raise the relatively low height of the current conduits. ''If they're going to do a big investment here, let's do it all,'' said Harry Bubbins, the director of Friends of Brook Park, a community environmental group that frequently runs boats through the kill. Noting that the undersides of the Con Ed beams show signs of decay, he added, ''There's a sense they're just going to throw these things in.'' 
 Chris Olert, a Con Ed spokesman, said that the utility hopes to finish the project by next summer. ''We're working with the city E.D.C., and I'm sure we and they together will address concerns,'' he added. ''There has to be sound engineering and the project has got to be affordable. Occasionally, people request things that just aren't affordable for all of our customers.'' 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Bubbins plans to continue to take people through the strait. 
 ''We're taking more people out to the site, introducing people to the project and raising awareness about it,'' he said. ''It's very different when you're on the water.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''It's tricky to time it, to get under the conduits,'' Rob Buchanan said of navigating the Bronx Kill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BUCHANAN/NEWYORKHARBORBEACHES.ORG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOATING & RAFTING (90%); ENGINEERING (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); FISHES (70%); LOBBYING (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (62%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (84%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



153 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE FEED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: The Allure of Plain Vanilla

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
LIKE its reclusive German founders, the supermarket chain Aldi doesn't do much to draw attention to itself.
 Its stores are small and spartan, with minimal decor and a limited selection of products. They are often found in nondescript shopping strips and lack the flashy signs and window displays of some competitors. Grocery carts cost a quarter apiece, which is refundable after the cart is returned. 
 But as the economy sputters and consumers look to save money, the privately held Aldi is suddenly emerging as a major force in the grocery business, one that some predict could one day rival Wal-Mart. 
 What makes Aldi so special is that, quite simply, its prices are cheaper than just about anyone else's, including Wal-Mart's. Where else can you buy an 18-ounce box of raisin bran cereal for just $1.49? Or a frozen pizza for $3.99? Or how about a DVD/CD player for $24.99?
 The company said recently that prices of its private-label products were 16 percent to 24 percent below those at discounters and big-box stores, and 40 percent less than those at traditional supermarkets. 
 While the chain's format might perplex some shoppers who are used to a much broader selection, Aldi officials have maintained that the advantage of shopping at its stores -- cheap prices -- quickly becomes clear. 
 For shoppers, ''there isn't much of a learning curve with a head of lettuce for 99 cents,'' Jason Hart, president of the United States division of Aldi, told Supermarket News.
 Restaurant analysts and consultants are bullish on the chain. ''Aldi has been one of the best-kept secrets in the United States for 20 years,'' said Bill Bishop, chairman of Willard Bishop, a consulting firm that caters to the supermarket industry. ''They are a force to be reckoned with.''
 Neil Z. Stern, a senior partner at the retail consulting firm McMillanDoolittle, said: ''Aldi is one example of a chain that is ripe for the time.''
 The chain's low-key style reflects its reclusive, elderly founders, the octogenarian German billionaires Theo and Karl Albrecht, who reportedly live on the island of Fohr in the North Sea, where they are said to collect typewriters, play golf and tend to orchids. In 1971, Theo was kidnapped for 17 days, and the brothers have kept a low profile ever since.
 The brothers split the business in two in the early 1960s, after a disagreement over whether to sell cigarettes. There are now two companies, Aldi Nord and Aldi Sud, which owns the United States division. In 1979, Theo Albrecht bought the Trader Joe's chain, which shares Aldi's small-store format, its reliance on private-label brands and its reputation for value, albeit in a hipper and more upscale way.
 An Aldi spokeswoman said that the brothers were not involved in the company's United States operations. But their reputation as relentless economizers infuses the chain, whose name is short for Albrecht Discounts. 
 ''The typical supermarket is a minefield of hidden costs,'' Aldi's Web site says. ''Along with your groceries, the extra freight of free bags, baggers and check acceptance is loaded into your cart every time you shop, whether you use those services or not.''
 Aldi's stores are designed to cut out many of those costs. While some grocery stores carry about 45,000 items, Aldi stores offer only 1,300 or so products, most of which are private-label brands. They are often displayed in the store in the cardboard box in which they were delivered.
 Having so few products ensures regular turnover, reduces spoilage and labor, and gives Aldi tremendous buying power with its suppliers. With its smaller stores, the company can lower its heating and electricity bills. In addition, the stores are typically open only during peak shopping times, from 9 a.m. to 7 or 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday. 
 Though it opened its first store in the United States in 1976, it only recently ran its first national television ad campaign. From a look at the ads on the company Web site, it doesn't seem as if the company spent much on them, either.
 Credit cards and checks aren't accepted, eliminating processing fees and the cost of bad checks. Shoppers must bag their own groceries and provide their own bags -- though leftover cardboard boxes are free.
 So why charge for shopping carts? Aldi says customers are more likely to return their carts, so fewer carts need to be replaced and an employee isn't needed to round up carts in the parking lot.
 Aldi's no-frills approach appears to be paying off. There are more than 950 stores in the United States, and it plans to add 100 in the next year. (It has 8,500 worldwide.) Supermarket News estimates that sales last year were $5.8 billion. By comparison, Wal-Mart's grocery sales in 2006 were $92 billion, according to the Food Marketing Institute, which listed Aldi's 2006 sales at $3.3 billion.
 Of course, shopping at Aldi is hardly the same experience as shopping at Wegmans or Whole Foods Market, or the local Kroger or Safeway. Those stores spent the last decade catering to shoppers' desire for convenience and more upscale products like artisanal cheeses, fresh-caught fish and organic produce.
 Aldi ignored the trends and stayed focused on price. For now, at least, shoppers are rewarding that decision. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Aldi grocery store. When times are tough, will the tough bring their own bags? (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); FROZEN FOODS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (67%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (64%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%)

COMPANY: ALDI EINKAUF GMBH & CO OHG (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); SUPERMARKET NEWS (54%); TRADER JOE'S CO (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (92%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%)

PERSON: THEO ALBRECHT (78%); KARL ALBRECHT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (66%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



154 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Reasons That We'll Always Have Paris

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
THE flagging economy is one possible explanation for museums' sudden surge of interest in the late 1920s and early 1930s. No fewer than four fall exhibitions in Manhattan will focus on this fertile period in modern art, when the markets had dried up but ideas flowed freely across the Atlantic. 
 For artists on both sides of the ocean, all roads led to Paris. It was there that Joan Miro declared, in 1927, ''I want to assassinate painting.'' The aggressive side of this Catalan artist will be explored in ''Joan Miro: Painting and Anti-Painting 1927-1937,'' opening at the Museum of Modern Art on Nov. 2. The lesser-known Miros in this exhibition, many of which are traveling here on foreign loans, flaunt grotesque forms and combative techniques. A highlight is the first American viewing of ''Portrait of a Dancer'' (1928), composed of a feather and a piece of cork attached with a hatpin to unprimed canvas.
 Similarly spirited figures abound in ''Alexander Calder: The Paris Years, 1926-1933,'' which opens at the Whitney Museum of American Art on Oct. 16. A young Calder arrived in Paris as a realist painter and illustrator; within seven years he had been transformed into a Surrealist sculptor whose playful ''drawings in space'' were admired by Marcel Duchamp, among others. The Whitney-owned ''Circus'' will be at the center of the show, accompanied by sketchbooks, mobiles and films (including one of ''Circus'' in action).
 The symbiotic relationship between New York and Paris in the 1920s and '30s is also the focus of a design exhibition opening on Oct. 3 at the Museum of the City of New York: ''Paris/New York: Design Fashion Culture 1925-1940.'' Among the offerings will be furniture, costumes, photographs and other objects exuding transcontinental Modernism. One highlight is Jean Chassaing's portrait of Josephine Baker; another is the promotional photograph of the Normandie cruise ship superimposed on a New York streetscape.
 ''Art Deco Design: Rhythm and Verve,'' which goes on view Friday at the New York Public Library's humanities and social sciences branch in Midtown, is a smaller, New York-centric look at the popular decorative style. Works by Sonia Delaunay and others will be featured alongside journals, hand-colored ''pochoir'' stencil prints and photographs of skyscrapers, all accompanied by the music of George Gershwin and Irving Berlin. 
 These exhibitions offer, among other things, reassurance that creative exchanges can transcend market cycles. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a Jean Chassaing poster from 1931
top, ''Dutch Interior I,'' a 1928 Joan Miro work. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF POSTERS PLEASE
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LIBRARIES (73%); CRUISES (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (62%); FOREIGN LENDING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



155 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; PRESENTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Shows Going On for 50 Years

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
 THINK dorm-room wunderkind, and you're apt to conjure a 90s-era Internet whiz, not a 71-year-old man with a pair of iPod earbuds dangling from his shirt pocket. 
 William Lockwood Jr., the pioneering McCarter Theater impresario, has always been slightly ahead of his time, though. Having presented his first concerts there as an undergraduate, he will celebrate his 50th anniversary as special programming director next month with two events: an acoustic performance by Lyle Lovett and John Hiatt on Oct. 20 and a concert with the piano prodigy Lang Lang on Oct. 21. 
 Interviewed recently in his closet-sized, disheveled McCarter office, Mr. Lockwood said that work has been his life: ''I go to so many shows each week, I couldn't have been a decent husband or father.'' 
 Trading in rock concerts and modern dance recitals for a more traditional life would have been akin to studying all night every night in his Princeton dorm room circa 1958, instead of using it as a base to recruit performers.
 ''I have a long history with McCarter,'' said Mr. Lockwood. ''My parents used to take me to classical music performances when I was a child.'' His father, William W. Lockwood, taught at Princeton and was assistant director of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs there. 
 The son received his own bachelor's degree in English in 1959. As an undergraduate, he got a paying job as an usher at the 1,100-seat theater. Then, in senior year, he and two friends decided to rent out McCarter and bring in some shows. ''It was pretty daring, because we didn't have any backers and we were using our own money,'' he recalled. ''The university said, 'If you want to go out on a limb ...' '' 
 And so they did. In a flurry of ambition, Mr. Lockwood and his friends brought the actor Hal Holbrook, the flamenco guitarist Carlos Montoya and the poet Carl Sandburg to the theater in his senior year. 
 ''We would naively phone up agents and convince them we were brash young college kids who knew what we were doing,'' said Mr. Lockwood. Mostly, he said, they didn't. 
 ''My first great lesson was with the Kingston Trio. We had them coming to the gym for a show, and then one of them got sick. They canceled,'' he said. The fallout was sobering.
 ''What I learned was that for a show to be an artistic or an economic success or both, what you have to do is baby-sit it until someone's up on a stage doing something for an audience, see it through from beginning to end,'' Mr. Lockwood said. ''You can't expect things to fall into place.'' 
 But despite the inevitable bumps along the road, the thrill of being the guy who lures a great act -- whether the Grateful Dead, which he brought to Princeton in 1971, or Wynton Marsalis, whom he has presented so many times he now counts him as a friend -- never lost its appeal. 
 After a three-year post-college stint presenting concerts in San Francisco, Mr. Lockwood returned to Princeton in 1963. Then came a long stretch of wearing two hats after Lincoln Center caught wind of his penchant for classical programming and came calling in 1965. For 28 years, Mr. Lockwood held down two full-time jobs. 
 In 1993, Mr. Lockwood left Lincoln Center; the decision, he said, was mutual. A few years later, with his focus back on McCarter, the then-fledgling New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark sought him out, and he has been on staff as a consultant since 1995. At McCarter, Mr. Lockwood books both theaters, but mostly the larger stage. There and in Newark, his shows go on only when main-stage plays and in-house productions do not. That doesn't always give him the chance to bring in the acts he would most like to -- ''I've never presented Eric Clapton or Neil Young or Counting Crows, my favorite rock band,'' he said, adding that they are all out of his league from a financial standpoint anyway. But mostly he is pleased by what he's been able to accomplish in his 50 years of gladhanding agents and artists. 
 ''In the classical world there's probably nobody I didn't present,'' he said. ''Pavarotti was often here and at Lincoln Center, and now there's Itzhak Perlman and Lang Lang and Yo-Yo Ma -- we go way back.'' 
 Those relationships, plus the promise of new talent and new audiences, propel him. 
 ''McCarter has been my child, my life,'' he said. ''And it's still exciting to me.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE RUN: William Lockwood Jr. began his career as an impresario at the McCarter Theater in Princeton when he was an undergraduate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); DANCE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSIC (76%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



156 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: First-Timers' Charm

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
EARLIER this summer, Constantine M. Rose and Maria Gizas accomplished the American dream at age 25: Having saved enough money for a down payment by living with their respective families for two years, they bought their first home, a one-bedroom condominium in a lavishly marbled converted school building in Hoboken for $360,000.
 ''As first-time home buyers, I think we lucked out in terms of what's going on with the housing market,'' said Mr. Rose, an accountant, who proposed to Ms. Gizas, an advertising copy writer, days after signing the purchase agreement. 
 ''We didn't have to take a hit on an existing property we had to sell,'' he said, ''and we benefited from lowered prices.''
 Indeed, the latest figures on the market for houses priced at ''entry level'' -- in New Jersey, that would be $400,000 or less -- do peg this as a propitious moment for buyers, if they can just qualify for a mortgage.
 The moment, however, is likely to last only about another six months, said Jeffrey Otteau, a market analyst whose Otteau Appraisal Group monitors statewide sales data and provides monthly reports to the real estate industry.
 He predicted that by next spring the subprime lending crisis, which primarily affects the lower-priced end of the market, will come to an end with the automatic resetting of interest rates on the final round of subprime loans made two years before. Wary lenders will then begin to loosen purse strings again to higher-leverage buyers.
 ''The first-time buyers' market will be the first sector to show dramatic improvement, and the first where prices will begin to rise,'' Mr. Otteau said, ''probably in 2009.''
 During any slump, he explained, the first-time buyers' market remains much stronger than the overall market, with prices proportionately higher and a livelier sales pace.
 This is because the supply of homes under $400,000 is relatively small in New Jersey, while demand from first-time buyers remains unwaveringly high ''no matter what the economy is doing,'' he said.
 What warped the pattern over the past couple of years, Mr. Otteau added, was the tightening credit for lower-income buyers. He pointed to current sales data showing that the overall inventory of unsold homes statewide represents a 10.9-month supply, while the inventory of unsold homes priced below $400,000 amounts to a 10.2-month supply, which he termed only a ''slight'' difference.
 In both Essex and Hudson Counties, the unsold inventory of the lowest-price homes was actually greater than the rest of the inventory.
 ''That is direct evidence of how the credit crunch is disproportionately affecting the first-time market,'' he said. ''Essex and Hudson Counties contain cities that are more urbanized, with higher concentrations of potential first-time buyers of lower-priced homes -- and what they need first and foremost is financing, which has been increasingly hard to come by.''
 But for those who, like Mr. Rose and Ms. Gizas, are able to qualify for a mortgage, the situation is excellent. Prices and interest rates are still low, and supply is unusually abundant in the price range for a first-time buyer.
 David Schoner, a vice president of Coldwell Banker's new homes division, said his company was marketing more than 25 developments around the state with units priced below $400,000. ''The quandary for the first-time home buyer,'' he said, ''is do they desire an urban setting, more convenient to the workplace, or possibly a bigger home in a more rural area?''
 Quickly running down a list of new construction projects, Mr. Schoner mentioned the Ardan House in Union City, a 12-unit structure ''with all the trimmings'' and a five-minute commute to Manhattan. It will be opening its two-bedroom apartments priced at $350,000 in September. ''There are already 100 people on the waiting list,'' he said.
 In Bayonne, at the Carlton Tower, a rental building being converted to condos, one- and two-bedroom units are available for $150,000 to $250,000, he said. In Newark, on Ferry Street in the Ironbound section, 68 two- and three-bedroom apartments start in the low $300,000s.
 Recently, Vikram Arjuva, a 28-year-old computer software programmer who is married and has a year-old child, bought a four-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath town home in Burlington County, at American Property Realty's Heritage at Chesterfield, for $370,000. The house has 2,400 square feet of living space, a one-car garage, a two-story foyer and granite countertops. 
 ''I did not go to look for a house when the market was booming,'' Mr. Arjuva said. ''We were renting in South Brunswick, but then I saw it come -- a good buyer's market.''
 Like Mr. Rose in Hoboken, Mr. Arjuva does not think he will remain in his starter home forever (Mr. Rose's time limit was ''five years, maximum''), but he does think he will be there long enough for its value to increase.
 ''The market will come back because that is what it always does,'' Mr. Arjuva said. ''For now, we are living in our own home, new construction, a peaceful neighborhood and plenty of space.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUYING MADE EASIER: With no house to sell before they could buy, Constantine Rose and Maria Gizas snapped up a one-bedroom in a converted school building in Hoboken. Unlike some other first-time buyers, they were able to secure a mortgage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM WHITE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



157 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON DANCE LISTINGS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4375 words

HEADLINE: Debuts, Returns and a Bit of Disney

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
Dates are subject to change.
 September
 MERCE CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY ''Ocean,'' a magnificent 1994 production conceived by Mr. Cunningham and John Cage, is a spectacle on its own. But this ''Ocean,'' which opens the Walker Art Center's impressive season, will flood the granite Rainbow Quarry at Waite Park in Minnesota with movement and sound: 14 dancers performing in the round, in tandem with David Tudor's electronic score and 150 musicians, including the St. Cloud Symphony Orchestra, circling the audience and playing Andrew Culver's orchestral score. Thursday-Saturday. Near St. Cloud, Minn., (612) 375-7600, walkerart.org. 
 CROSSING THE LINE The French Institute Alliance Francaise's second annual festival, a rambunctious, cross-disciplinary affair held in conjunction with various organizations throughout the city, promises to be one of the fall's most exciting and thought-provoking performance events. The curators are the institute's vice president of cultural affairs, Lili Chopra, and Simon Dove, the highly regarded former director of the Springdance festival in the Netherlands, who is now chairman of the dance department at Herberger College of the Arts at Arizona State University. The festival is dedicated in part to exploding tired genres. Still, two dance-related events, among a host of premieres and commissions, look especially interesting. The French choreographer and festival darling Jerome Bel offers a prelude event on Wednesday, ''The Last Performance (a lecture)'' at Le Skyroom, and his compatriot Catherine Bay invades the meatpacking district on Sept. 16 with ''The Snow White Project,'' a site-specific happening featuring hordes of Disney character look-alikes. Sept. 16-Oct. 5. 22 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100, fiaf.org. 
 SAN FRANCISCO BALLET The artistic director Helgi Tomasson can't claim credit for San Francisco Ballet's being America's oldest professional ballet troupe, but he has helped to make it one of the country's most interesting, commissioning widely and smartly, and fortifying his repertory of older classics. Celebrating its 75th anniversary, the company is going coast to coast, showing off its versatile wares at the Harris Theater of Music and Dance in Chicago (Sept. 16-21), New York City Center (Oct. 10-18), the Orange County Performing Arts Center in Costa Mesa, Calif. (Nov. 11-16), and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington (Nov. 25-30). Those wares now include the glamorous French ballerina Sofiane Sylve, who left New York City Ballet last winter. (415) 861-5600, sfballet.org.
 FALL FOR DANCE Tickets go on sale at 11 a.m. on Sunday, so hustle over to City Center: at just $10 a pop, seats go fast for this comfortably predictable annual smorgasbord. Page 20. Sept. 17-27. New York City Center.
 TREY MCINTYRE PROJECT A New York debut awaits the Trey McIntyre Project on June 1 at the Joyce Theater, but first this nascent troupe faces its home crowd in, of all places, Idaho. Mr. McIntyre, who has choreographed for companies across the country, chose Boise after conducting a national study of suitable locations to support a new ballet company. Sept. 20. Morrison Center for the Performing Arts, Boise, Idaho, (208) 426-1609, mc.boisestate.edu/index.html.
 TERE O'CONNOR DANCE It's hard to imagine this company's ''Rammed Earth'' suiting any space better than the Chocolate Factory's raw little theater, where it had its New York debut last year. But Mr. O'Connor, one of the finest American choreographers, made this sublime poem of a dance with the idea of architectural adaptability in mind. Think of it as an all-purpose site-specific work, one that, unlike too many of the excellent contemporary dances made in this country, is getting a respectable life span. Sept. 24-28. The Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Clinton, (646) 731-3200, whiteoakdanceproject.com. 
 CENTER FOR PERFORMANCE RESEARCH This artist-run building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, has been slow to get going. (New buildings never open on schedule, let alone certified green ones.) But once it does, it should be one of the city's most powerful forces for artistic innovation. As part of the Crossing the Line festival, the center is helping to produce the ridiculously overdue American debut of the French choreographer Christian Rizzo. The three-part show, the center's first public performance, features ''100% Polyester,'' an installation by Mr. Rizzo and the lighting designer Caty Olive; Mr. Rizzo's film ''Phantoms and Vanities No. 4''; and a collaboration between Mr. Rizzo and the Taiwanese dancer I-Fang Lin. Sept. 25-27. 361 Manhattan Avenue, cprrsvp@aol.com 
 PACIFIC NORTHWEST BALLETPeter Boal grew up at New York City Ballet, intoxicated by the crazed workload that causes some dancers to crash and burn. He has proved just as energetically omnivorous as Pacific Northwest's artistic director since retiring from the stage in 2005. Why, for example, acquire one Twyla Tharp premiere for a Tharp program when he can nab two? Ms. Tharp, who misfired recently at American Ballet Theater and Miami City Ballet, is due for a zinger. Sept. 25-Oct. 5. McCaw Hall at the Seattle Center, Seattle, (206) 684-7200, seattlecenter.com. 
 BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY The Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival kicks off with the New York premiere of ''A Quarreling Pair,'' Mr. Jones's dance-theater piece drawn from Jane Bowles's 1945 puppet play about two sisters. Diving into the imaginative, lyrical intimacy of this world must have been something of a relief for Mr. Jones, who continues his long artistic march toward the 2009 Ravinia Festival, where he will present a commission about Abraham Lincoln. Sept. 30, Oct. 2-4. BAM Opera House. 
 WALLY CARDONA AND RAHEL VONMOOS Mr. Cardona long ago graduated from starter stages like the Joyce SoHo. It should be a treat to see this commanding artist in such an intimate theater, where he and Ms. Vonmoos, a British choreographer, will share ''A Light Conversation.'' Sept. 30-Oct. 5. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 431-9233, joyce.org. 
 OCTOBER
 MORPHOSES/THE WHEELDON COMPANY Last fall, before Christopher Wheeldon's troupe made its New York debut, everyone dissected the impossible expectations facing ballet's savior. Afterward, naturally, they dissected his failure to meet those expectations. But Mr. Wheeldon seems like a humorous, philosophical sort, and thankfully, he's back for more, along with all-star dancers and gems like ''Polyphonia.'' Also listed are a new Wheeldon work, set to Stravinsky in honor of the Ballets Russes centenary; a new piece by the Canadian choreographer Emily Molnar; two Ashton ballets; and Lightfoot/Leon's ''Shutters Shut,'' a 2003 ballet set to a Gertrude Stein poem. Oct. 1-5. New York City Center.
 ANN LIV YOUNG The best part of Ms. Young's raucous, vulgar performances is often the audience's reaction: half the people leave feeling they've seen one of the most powerful young performance artists of her generation; the other half walk out (sometimes midshow) feeling swindled. Let's hope ''The Bagwell in Me,'' a theatrical solo based on George Washington, is no exception. Oct. 2-4. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org.
 PEAK PERFORMANCES @ MONTCLAIR New Jersey premieres don't tend to make big splashes, but this impressively wide-ranging series gets some noteworthy ones, including ''To Be Straight With You,'' the first American appearance of the London-based DV8 Physical Theater in 15 years. Oct. 2-5. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, (973) 655-5122, montclair.edu/kasser. 
 RACHID OURAMDANE AND PASCAL RAMBERT The Crossing the Line festival continues with ''Diptyque,'' two autonomous dances presented back to back: Mr. Rambert's ''With My Own Hands,'' performed by Kate Moran, is followed by Mr. Ouramdane's solo ''A Standing Boy,'' performed by Mr. Rambert. Anticipation runs high. Page 20. Oct. 3-4. Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 477-5829, ps122.org.
 BREAKING GROUND: A DANCE CHARRETTE Dancing in the Streets is something of a misnomer for a fine organization that usually sends choreographers to stranger spots. For its annual Charrette, directed by Joanna Haigood, five choreographers are given five days to make five five-minute works in a New York location they -- and we -- learn about only five days before the show. This year's guinea pigs are Jonah Bokaer, Tania Isaac, Stephan Koplowitz, Gus Solomons Jr. and Nami Yamamoto. Oct. 4-5. (212) 625-3505, dancinginthestreets.org/wordpress. 
 SUZANNE FARRELL BALLET Watching Ms. Farrell's company can be a bittersweet experience. Given her intensely close relationship with Balanchine, you feel you are seeing his choreography with the nuances and intentions that he wanted for it. Yet given the realities of limited rehearsal time and subpar dancers that usually accompany pickup troupes, even those led by muses, the vision often dims in the translation. It shouldn't in ''The Balanchine Couple,'' an evening of pas de deux with onstage narration by Ms. Farrell. The company will also dance the pas de deux from ''Ragtime,'' part of Ms. Farrell's Balanchine Preservation Initiative. Oct. 8-12. Eisenhower Theater, Kennedy Center, Washington, (202) 467-4600, kennedy-center.org.
 DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP Contemporary dance has no finer home in New York than Dance Theater Workshop, whose artistic director, Carla Peterson, is one of the art form's few visionary curators. The inaugural panel of the Lobby Talks series, organized by the young choreographer Chase Granoff, will focus on the use of language in performance and may well enlighten a few of those people who ''just don't get dance.'' Oct. 14. 
 TRAJAL HARRELL Where would contemporary dance be without Mr. Harrell? His many hats include curator, educator and editor in chief of Movement Research's excellent Performance Journal. And of course, he is a fine dancer and a very fine, very smart choreographer, whose works adroitly toe the line between archcamp and startling sincerity. He will reprise one of 2007's best works, ''Showpony,'' at Danspace Project from Jan. 8-10, but first comes ''Quartet for the End of Time.'' Inspired by a Messiaen composition, it promises to be a rich collage of media and ideas. Oct. 15-18. Dance Theater Workshop.
 LUCIANA ACHUGAR Most choreographers use the annual Association of Performing Arts Presenters conference to show snippets of tour-worthy (that is, safe) work. Last winter Ms. Achugar opted instead for a gutsy, in-progress presentation of a sensual, deeply personal exploration of the audience-performer relationship. She continues that exploration in ''The Sublime Is Us,'' which will be performed in Dance Theater Workshop's intimate upstairs studio. Ms. Achugar is one to keep an eye on, and you'll never get a closer look than here. Oct. 21-25, 28-Nov. 1. Dance Theater Workshop. 
 AMERICAN BALLET THEATER During its final City Center fall performance before decamping to Avery Fisher Hall, Ballet Theater will honor the centenary of the English choreographer Antony Tudor. Let's hope it brings back the pitch-perfect cast of former Ballet Theater stars who performed Tudor's ''Judgment of Paris'' (1938) last spring. Jiri Kylian's ''Overgrown Path,'' an homage to Tudor, will have its company premiere, and other highlights include Twyla Tharp's ''Baker's Dozen'' and ''Brief Fling.'' What a treat to see Ballet Theater's fine dancers sinking their teeth into challenging choreography. Oct. 21-Nov. 2. New York City Center.
 ROSAS There was a time when Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker and Steve Reich were considered Next Wave. That time is not recent, despite the Brooklyn Academy of Music's attempts to market them as such. But where would the festival be without such oldies but goodies? Ms. De Keersmaeker, the Belgian choreographer, and her company, Rosas, are offering two American premieres in an evening of work set to Mr. Reich's music, performed live. Oct. 22-25. BAM Opera House.
 November
 COMPAGNIE JANT-BI AND URBAN BUSH WOMEN By themselves, Urban Bush Women bring down the house. Who can say what glorious mayhem will occur at the Next Wave festival when they team with Senegal's all-male Compagnie Jant-Bi for ''Les Ecailles de la Memoire'' (''The Scales of Memory'')? There are far too few meaningful African and African-American collaborations in dance; here's one to cheer about. Nov. 19, 21-22. BAM Opera House. 
 NEW YORK CITY BALLET It is often said that you go to City Ballet for the choreography, not the casting: this is in contrast to a star-driven company like American Ballet Theater, where the productions are often the weakest link. But the City Ballet dancers were looking marvelously alive this spring, and it is because of them, as much as the storied repertory, that the winter season in the construction site known as Lincoln Center looks so promising. After an opening gala and 45 performances of ''The Nutcracker,'' the season starts for real on Jan. 6. It includes premieres by Douglas Lee of Britain and Alexey Miroshnichenko of Russia, both relative unknowns in America; and a new work by the company alumna Melissa Barak (now with Los Angeles Ballet), a bright prospect and, just as exciting, a female choreographer in an art form that doesn't encourage nearly enough female leaders. There will, of course, be lots of Balanchine ballets, including ''Serenade,'' ''The Four Temperaments'' and ''Vienna Waltzes,'' which will all be seen in one blockbuster program on Jan. 14 to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the School of American Ballet, founded by Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein. If you can make it to only one evening, this would be the one, or any night that features ''Concerto DSCH,'' last season's instant classic by Alexei Ratmansky. Nov. 25-March 1. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com.
 December
 'LEWIS FOREVER' Move over, von Trapps. In ''Lewis Forever: Freak the Room,'' an example of the thriving Brooklyn-Berlin arts connection surfaces as members of the Lewis family performance collective from both sides of the Atlantic (including the young Brooklyn choreographer Isabel Lewis) gather for a multidisciplinary exploration of identity, transnationalism and other issues facing a global society. Dec. 2-14. Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 477-5829, ps122.org.
 ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER At this year's annual City Center stint honoring its 50th anniversary, the company is pulling out all the stops, including musical performances by Sweet Honey in the Rock, the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra with Wynton Marsalis and Jessye Norman; premieres by the Italian choreographer Mauro Bigonzetti and Hope Boykin, an Ailey dancer; and even a gala cameo by Oprah Winfrey. But Ailey's artistic director, Judith Jamison, anchors almost every program of the five-week season with ''Revelations,'' a nod to the company's enduring popularity, but also a potential sign of choreographic complacency -- it's not always good for artists and audiences to know exactly what they're getting. Dec. 3-Jan. 4. New York City Center. 
 JONAH BOKAER Heaven knows where he finds the time. In between little tasks like choreographing two Robert Wilson operas overseas, serving as founding director of Chez Bushwick and helping to found the Center for Performance Research with the choreographer John Jasperse, Mr. Bokaer has collaborated with one of today's most virtuosic poets, Anne Carson. ''Stacks'' will get only one New York performance; no doubt he'll have a plane to catch the next morning. Dec. 4. Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, skirballcenter.nyu.edu.
 BEACON EVENT The Merce Cunningham Dance Company's Events at the Dia:Beacon museum should not be missed. But if you must miss this one, in the Chamberlain gallery, the troupe occupies the Flavin gallery in February. Dec. 6-7. Dia:Beacon, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org.
 TANZTHEATER WUPPERTAL PINA BAUSCH True, her more recent spectacles can seem like Bausch Lite. And she is not helping her cause with titles like ''Bamboo Blues,'' the work that will have its American premiere at Next Wave. No matter: whether you adore it or you're over it, nobody does it quite like Ms. Bausch. Dec. 11-13, 16-17, 19-20. BAM Opera House.
 DAVID GORDON/PICK UP PERFORMANCE COMPANY Mr. Gordon is a marvelously mischievous choreographer, so it's a fair bet that ''Trying Times,'' a ''reconstruction'' -- his first -- of his 1982 original, will be anything but faithful. Page 20. Dec. 11-13, 16-20. Dance Theater Workshop. 
 JANUARY
 DANCE ON CAMERA This year's festival features a tribute to the fabulous Busby Berkeley. Enough said. Jan. 7-11, 16-17. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 727-0764, dancefilms.org.
 CEDAR LAKE CONTEMPORARY BALLET The company's artistic director, Benoit-Swan Pouffer, continues to bring an international array of choreographers to Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet's Chelsea home. The winter season features premieres by Didy Veldman of the Netherlands and Luca Veggetti of Italy, and a reprise of ''Ten Duets on a Theme of Rescue,'' a lushly atmospheric dance by Crystal Pite of Vancouver. Mr. Pouffer says he plans to invite more American artists, but let's hope not too many; without Cedar Lake, many of these foreign choreographers would never be seen in New York. Jan. 8-11, 13-18. 547 West 26th Street, (212) 244-0015, cedarlakedance.com.
 MIAMI CITY BALLET This jewel of a company is finally making its Manhattan debut, so Balanchine devotees can debate whether Miami's founding artistic director, Edward Villella, or City Ballet's Peter Martins is the better steward of the flame. The rest of us, meanwhile, can sit back and enjoy the dancing. ''Rubies,'' whose lead male role Mr. Villella originated at City Ballet, should be particularly incendiary. Jan 21-25. New York City Center. 
 FEBRUARY
 JIRI KYLIAN When the Boston Ballet performs Mr. Kylian's complete ''Black and White'' program, it will be the first company to do so other than the Netherlands Dance Theater, which the celebrated Czech Republic choreographer has directed since 1978. We don't see enough of his work on these shores. This bill, which includes three Boston Ballet premieres, should go a long way toward showing people why so many European choreographers do their best to emulate him. Feb. 12-15. Citi Performing Arts Center, Boston, (617) 482-9393, citicenter.org. 
 THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY Founded in 2003, the Chocolate Factory is New York's little performance space that could. One of the season's dance events is ''redevelop (death valley),'' a real-time dance and video performance directed and choreographed by the factory's artistic director, Brian Rogers, who is aided by an intriguing group of collaborators. Long Island City, the rapidly changing Queens neighborhood where the theater is based, inspired what sounds like a richly layered, sophisticated project. Feb. 12-28. 5-49 49th Avenue, (212) 352-3101, chocolatefactorytheater.org.
 SCHOOL OF AMERICAN BALLET As Balanchine's school reaches the 75-year mark, everyone is invited to celebrate. What better date for Valentine's Day than the former New York City Ballet principal Jock Soto, now a school faculty member? A free master class for advanced students will be taught at Symphony Space by Mr. Soto, whose anecdotes, one-liners and wonderfully droll corrections are not to be missed. On Feb. 22 and 23, the Guggenheim Museum's Works & Process series presents ''Balanchine's Contribution: Teaching and the School of American Ballet,'' led by Suki Schorer, who danced under Balanchine for many years. Feb. 14. Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-1414, symphonyspace.org; Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3587, guggenheim.org
 PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY Just like clockwork, Mr. Taylor will roll into New York for his annual season, bringing a revival of the 1963 dance ''Scudorama,'' recent hits like ''Promethean Fire'' and the requisite pair of New York premieres. But don't get too excited; while Mr. Taylor turns out new dances with numbing regularity, it has been years since he made anything fresh. Feb. 25-March 15. New York City Center.
 DOUGLAS DUNN & DANCERS At last, a noteworthy choice by the 92nd Street Y's Harkness Dance Festival: Mr. Dunn's 1980 take on Stravinsky's ''Pulcinella.'' The revival is part of the company's three-year Homestretch program, aimed at reprising some of Mr. Dunn's major works. It's a great idea, but this much-overlooked choreographer, who danced for Merce Cunningham and with the groundbreaking postmodern collective Grand Union, should be getting a lot more assistance. Feb. 25-26, 28, March 1. Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org.
 MARCH
 SAVION GLOVER In June, when Mr. Glover was last at the Joyce Theater, the great hoofer sought to integrate tap with modern dance and ballet. ''Invitation to a Dancer'' was a critical disaster, largely because of the caliber of the invitees. (There were also squirm-inducing moments for any feminists in the room.) But Mr. Glover's earlier forays into gospel and classical music were nothing short of divine. Here's hoping this stint is tutu-free, unless Mr. Glover borrows a page from his mentor, Gregory Hines, who teamed up with Mikhail Baryshnikov in ''White Knights.'' March 2-22. Joyce Theater. 
 ARMITAGE GONE! DANCE Karole Armitage's company will offer the premiere of a new piece, tentatively titled ''Mashup,'' but the real draws for this stint are the revivals of several landmark works from the 1980s, including ''Drastic Classicism'' and ''GoGo Ballerina.'' Though they don't often seem to these days, progressives and radicals can indeed wear point shoes. March 4-7, 11-14. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org. 
 APRIL
 STEPHEN PETRONIO COMPANY Mr. Petronio's eight-member troupe is expanding as it celebrates its 25th anniversary. The choreographer plans to add four new dancers to perform ''I Drink the Air Before Me,'' a new evening-length work featuring an original commissioned score by the fashionable classical composer Nico Muhly, barely past the silver mark himself. April 27 -May 3. Joyce Theater.
 MAY
 MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY That America's oldest modern dance troupe is still in existence is something of a miracle given the costly, two-front war it has waged in recent years: first, an economic one after a protracted legal battle over Graham's work; second, and perhaps more serious, the struggle to remain relevant and vital after Graham's death in 1991. For this New York stint, the company will try to look forward while honoring the past. Program A is a reconstruction of the 1958 dance drama ''Clytemnestra.'' Program B includes something new: ''Lamentation Variations.'' It is choreographed by Richard Move, known for his Graham interpretations, Aszure Barton and Larry Keigwin. Dance by committee! What would the grand dame think? May 12-16. Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, skirballcenter.nyu.edu.
 BALLETS RUSSES 2009 Institutions around the country, including the New York Public Library, Ballet West in Salt Lake City and the Joffrey Ballet, are celebrating the centenary of the Ballets Russes, but the epicenter of Diaghilev activity is in Boston. The citywide festivities include art exhibitions, screenings, performances by the Boston Pops and a three-day academic conference at Boston University. And the Boston Ballet will offer a Ballets Russes mixed bill featuring Balanchine's ''Prodigal Son,'' Nijinsky's ''Afternoon of a Faun'' and Fokine's ''Spectre de la Rose,'' and a premiere by Jorma Elo of, you guessed it, ''Le Sacre du Printemps.'' Page 20. May 14-23. ballets-russes.com.
 MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP To die or not to die, that is the question. The Soviet censors answered definitively by rejecting Prokofiev's happy ending for ''Romeo and Juliet, on Motifs of Shakespeare.'' It didn't see light of day until the July premiere of Mr. Morris's dance at Bard College. But many New Yorkers will see the work for the first time when it comes to Lincoln Center. Word is that Mr. Morris is retooling the piece a bit; with luck, improvements will be made to the romantic duets, which paled in interest next to some of the wonderfully alive group scenes. May 14-17. Lincoln Center, Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org.
 JOHN JASPERSE COMPANY ''Becky, Jodi and John,'' a complex meditation on performance, impermanence and relationships, was very moving at its premiere in April 2007, and could well be more moving now. Becky Hilton, Jodi Melnick and John Jasperse are marvels, and works like this don't come around often. May 27-30. Dance Theater Workshop.
 JUNE
 SIDI LARBI CHERKAOUI Though a star in Europe, this Belgian choreographer has been seen here little. Thanks to Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet, New Yorkers will see this evening-length commission first. Page 20. June 11-28. The site is still to be determined.
 KENNEDY CENTER Washington will host several foreign ballet dignitaries this spring, with June being an especially promising month. First comes the Bolshoi Ballet (June 16-21), performing a restaging of ''Le Corsaire'' by Alexei Ratmansky. (Mr. Ratmansky will no longer be the Bolshoi's artistic director by this time, and New Yorkers continue to hope for a strengthening of his relationship with City Ballet.) The Royal Ballet follows (June 23-28) with Kenneth MacMillan's ''Manon'' and, more exciting, a mixed bill featuring Frederick Ashton's ''Month in the Country,'' Christopher Wheeldon's ''DGV'' and Wayne McGregor's ''Chroma,'' which lighted up Covent Garden in 2006. Mr. McGregor was named the Royal's resident choreographer shortly afterward. (202) 467-4600, kennedy-center.org. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An entry last Sunday in the New Season dance listings referred incorrectly to the choreographer Christian Rizzo's scheduled performance at the Center for Performance Research in Brooklyn. It will not be his American debut. (He has appeared in the United States at least once before, in 2006, at the On the Boards festival in Seattle.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Catherine Bay's site-specific piece ''Snow White Project'' is part of the Crossing the Line festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANS GISSINGER) (pg.AR22)
 Emma Desjardins and Koji Mizuta in the Merce Cunningham company's ''Beacon Event.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNA FINKE) (pg.AR24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); BALLET (89%); DANCERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); THEATER (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FRENCH INSTITUTE/ALLIANCE FRANCAISE (56%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



158 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GOING DOWN THE ROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Vanishing Barns Signal a Changing Iowa

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: IOWA FALLS, Iowa 

 BODY:
One by one, the old-fashioned barns that speckle this landscape are vanishing. Some are demolished to make way for new cornfields. Others, weak with years, simply crumple.
 ''She's gonna go,'' Rod Scott said wistfully, gazing up at a stone barn from the 1850s, walls buckling. Down a gravelly road, he sighs at a small barn decorated with a mural, standing but stooping slightly now. A bit farther, holes in the walls of another offer a flash of some forgotten life -- a rusted rocking chair, a beer can, an old bed frame. And on one rise sits a ruin, the oak beams of a barn fully collapsed, hay bales still at the ready, crushed beneath. 
 ''We're trying to ring that alarm bell,'' said Mr. Scott, whom people here have come to call the Barn Guy for his insistence on trying to save some of Iowa's 50,000 remaining barns, icons that turned up again and again in a guidebook to the state's landmarks that was produced during the Great Depression and has recently been published online.
 But the tale of the disappearing barn, a building whose purpose shifted, then faded away, tells a bigger story too, of how farming itself, a staple in this state then and now, has changed markedly since those writers drove through. 
 What had in the 1930s been an ordinary farm here -- 80 or 160 acres and a few cows and sheep and chickens -- is today far bigger and more specialized to pay for air-conditioned, G.P.S.-equipped combines and tractors, so much fuel and the now-skyrocketing price of farmland. 
 Competition for land -- to rent or buy -- has grown cutthroat and overwhelming, a matter of networking and schmoozing (at church, at the local coffee shop, while selling seed) worthy of the corporate boardroom. (Some here tell of people who call the widows of farmers who have died days or hours earlier, hoping to secure land.)
 All of that has left some of Iowa's youngest, newest farmers doubtful that one could make a start in farming anymore without roots and connections and land dating back, say, to the W.P.A. era. 
 Back then, the state boasted more than 200,000 barns, Mr. Scott said, splashes of color, often red in Iowa's otherwise endless, mesmerizing rows of green. The Works Progress Administration writers told of barn dances. They noted lightning rods that had come to top barn after barn. 
 After the writers moved on, machines, more and more, took the place of handwork and workhorses, and these farm implements grew ever bigger, more powerful, more expensive. Farms, in turn, ballooned in acreage. They shrank drastically in number. So farmhouses, schools, farming towns, even Mr. Scott's beloved barns emptied, making way in some cases for the long, low, plain buildings used in modern large-scale livestock operations.
 That period, as described in the guide, was steeped in a sense of community, an innocent warmth: county fair days, band concert nights, when farm families rushed through chores to gather for music, and threshing runs, when neighbor farmers helped one another with the harvest (before combines made that simpler, solitary work) and their wives gathered to prepare mountainous feasts of meat, potatoes, pie.
 ''We just don't neighbor like we used to,'' said Donald Wedeking, 81, of Nemaha (A ''Mighty Small Town,'' as its sign somewhat ambiguously promises), who grows 830 acres of corn and soybeans with his son, far more than his family once did. 
 He was one of many near and along U.S. 20 through western Iowa, where the guide's writers wandered, who seemed to long for elements of the past.
 ''Now it's kind of dog eat dog,'' said LaDon Grotjohn, 63, a farmer in Schaller. 
 ''It was a good way,'' said Wendell Body, 76, of Sac City, the county seat for Sac County, an agricultural community where more than 17,600 people lived in the 1930s, but where fewer than 11,000 people live now. Downtown Sac City, as it once was, is sitting in a basement. 
 Tucked away in the Sac City Museum, displays of everything the downtown once was have been lovingly preserved. There sits the clothing store that recently shut down, its remaining inventory now an exhibit. Here is a reminiscence of the Sac theater where packed matinees once played and the old funeral parlor, a bin of makeup still on hand. 
 ''I suppose you just want to reconstruct your old downtown to bring back memories of how downtown used to be,'' said Wilma Fort, who grew up here and spends three days a week, without pay, tending to the museum.
 Mrs. Fort, 79, said she is happy here. ''We have about everything you need,'' she said. These days, the city may be best known for the enormous, 3,100-pound ball of popcorn people here created a few years ago, securing its place in the Guinness World Records book. (The popcorn ball has since been overtaken by a bigger one made somewhere else, but Sac City's still sits in a prominent display booth along a main street, covered in shrink wrap.) Even for Mrs. Fort, whose farmhouse sits outside town, the changes are evident. She counts 11 farmsteads (and the accompanying 11 families, 11 houses, 11 barns) between her home and town that have disappeared over six decades. School buses, once full of farm kids, including Mrs. Fort's, now roll for miles with three children.
 These days, a farmer's land can stretch into thousands of acres. When the W.P.A.'s writers came through, they wrote that Iowa had 221,986 separate farms on land totaling more than 34 million acres. Today, on only a little less land (31.5 million acres), Iowa has just 88,400 farms. More than half the farmland is owned by people 65 years old or older, an Iowa State University farm economist says, and about half of that is owned by those 75 or older. 
 But the notion that young people, lured by big cities, have left purely by choice is not always so. On a gravel road near Albert City, a machine -- some surreal cross between a spaceship and a gargantuan Transformers toy -- suddenly appears in the distance. Cars pull over to make room. It stands 19 feet off the ground, its gaping boom, full of insecticide to battle the aphids in soybean plants, jutting out 90 feet. 
 This sprayer ($168,000, used) is the latest tool in the kit of Josh Bellcock, 31, who farms 3,000 acres with family members. Without his family land and his longstanding ties to older farmers who live here (and from whom he rents land) Mr. Bellcock says he probably could not succeed as a young farmer starting out. Not now. 
 ''I'm pretty lucky,'' Mr. Bellcock said. ''People aren't willing, unless it's a family member, to go out of their way to help someone else.''
 Brice Hundling, 27, returned to Breda, Iowa, not long after he graduated from Iowa State University, hoping to build up a farm. He and his wife, Melanie, 26, have struggled to find cropland they can afford to buy or rent. 
 ''You go to the auction and there's always someone that farms like 10,000 acres and so they can pay $7,000 an acre,'' said Ms. Hundling, who pays many of the couple's bills by working as a physical therapist and who is expecting a first child.
 The Hundlings watch, they say, as the biggest farmers secure more and more land, the youngest ones, like themselves, fail to afford any, and the locals go on fretting that everyone has moved away.
 ''They sit and complain there's nobody in the small towns anymore, there's nobody in our schools,'' Mr. Hundling said. ''And then they go and rent it to the guy that's already farming 10,000 acres and lives 30 miles away, 40 miles away, 100 miles away.''
 Those distant farmers, Mr. Hundling said, are unlikely to pack the local restaurant. Nor will they likely fill the school bus near Mrs. Fort's house. Or slow the disappearance of Mr. Scott's prized barns.
 Still, the Hundlings, both of whom grew up near here, say they will press on. They have no wish to go anywhere else. From their kitchen table in the darkening evening came only the sounds of cicadas, ducks, silence.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A barn in the Iowa Falls area, where many are in ruins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Barns are crumbling in and around Iowa Falls, including this one
pieces of its roof are at left. As machines came to farming, whole communities were transformed.
Rod Scott, known as the Barn Guy, said, ''We're trying to ring that alarm bell.'' Right, Wilma Fort, 79, who grew up in Sac City, tends to its museum.
 The roughly 200,000 small farms of the 1930s have given way to fewer but larger operations, and the competition for land is cutthroat across the state. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A29) MAP: Sac County, Iowa 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (87%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



159 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Why the Bear Is Alive and Well

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF there's a silver lining to bear markets, it is that they make stocks cheap for the next wave of investors. But so far in this downturn, it isn't working out that way. 
 Based on the price-to-earnings ratio, stocks have actually become more expensive even as share prices have come tumbling down. In fact, the P/E ratio for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, based on earnings over the previous four quarters, has risen to just over 24 from around 19, according to S.& P.
 ''Anyone tracking P/E's is going to be discouraged by this market,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. 
 Though share prices are off by about 20 percent since the market peaked on Oct. 9, 2007, corporate earnings --the ''E'' in the P/E ratio -- have fallen even further. In the first quarter this year, earnings of the S.& P. 500 sank 17.5 percent, according to Thomson Financial. But the index, excluding dividends, itself declined 9.9 percent. And in the second quarter, corporate profits declined by an estimated 22 percent while stock prices fell by a much more modest 3.2 percent. 
 Christopher N. Orndorff, head of equity strategy at Payden & Rygel, an asset manager based in Los Angeles, said, ''the lack of P/E compression has created a headwind'' for stocks. 
 Historically, bull markets emerge from bear markets after stocks sink to attractive levels for investors. Since 1938, the average P/E for the S.& P. 500 at the start of new bull markets has been 13, according to Standard & Poor's Equity Research. That's considerably lower than the current level of 24. 
 To be sure, at the start of the most recent bull market, on Oct. 9, 2002, the market's P/E was a lofty 27. But this was after the tech bubble of the late 1990s, a bubble that distorted valuations altogether. Moreover, a multiple of 27 still represented a deep discount to where the market was trading earlier in the decade.
 Why does any of this matter? Mr. Orndorff says the P/E ratio shows that the stock market still has serious problems.
 ''I would consider the expansion in P/E's in the current environment to be another indication that we are still in a bear market,'' he said, ''and that the current rally is just a bear-market rally rather than a change in direction.'' 
 Based purely on the raw data, P/E ratios appear too high to start a new bull market, said James B. Stack, editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst newsletter, based in Whitefish, Mont. 
 But Mr. Stack and others argue that investors also need to weigh several other factors.
 For starters, he noted that corporate earnings were being distorted by troubles in just one sector: the financials. According to S.& P., earnings for financial companies are expected to drop about 70 percent this year versus 2007. That accounts for most of the profit drop for the overall market.
 And just as there has been no drop in P/E's so far in this bear market, there was no expansion of them in the previous bull market. In fact, from October 2002 to October 2007, the ratio gradually fell, to around 19 from 27. Therefore, valuations might not need to fall as much during this downturn.
 Also, corporate earnings have been shrinking since last summer. When earnings decline this way, P/E ratios can be volatile -- and even misleading, said Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, the asset manager in Boston. 
 The last time profits were in decline -- at the beginning of this decade -- P/E ratios kept climbing even as stock prices fell during the bear market of 2000 to 2002. 
 Eventually, though, that trend reversed.
 Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston, also noted that based on ''forward earnings'' -- projected profits, as opposed to actual results -- the market P/E is already quite modest. Consensus earnings forecasts from Wall Street analysts for 2009 work out to a forward P/E of around 12 for the S.& P. 500. 
 OF course, Wall Street earnings projections have been way too optimistic in recent quarters, and David A. Rosenberg, the Merrill Lynch economist, thinks that they may still be too rosy. In a recent economic commentary, he says Merrill is expecting S.& P. 500 earnings to continue to decline through 2009. In fact, he says he thinks profits of the S.& P. index will come in at around $63 a share next year. That's down from the $68 he is forecasting for this year, and a far cry from the $100 that Wall Street is expecting for 2009.
 Using his projection, the market's forward P/E would be nearly 20, not 13. If he's right about earnings, it may be a while before a new bull can emerge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EQUITY RESEARCH (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%)

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); PAYDEN & RYGEL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); MONTANA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



160 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THEATER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: From Classics To A 'Toxic' Premiere

BYLINE: By CARLA BARANAUCKAS

 BODY:
FOR those who appreciate economy of words, the coming New Jersey theater season can be summed up in five: Shakespeare meets the Toxic Avenger.
 That's not to say that Toxie, a New Jersey superhero, has taken to speaking in iambic pentameter couplets. But it does reflect the range of interests the state's professional theaters are tackling in the 2008-9 season -- from treasured classics to world premieres, from emotional dramas to lighthearted musicals.
 The world premiere of ''The Toxic Avenger,'' a rock musical based on the cult film about a green mutant righter of environmental wrongs, opens the 35th season of the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, running Sept. 30 through Nov. 2. The production is New Jersey through and through, set in the fictional town of Troma just off the turnpike and written by the New Jersey natives Joe DiPietro, who wrote ''I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change,'' and David Bryan, a founding member of the rock band Bon Jovi.
 While ''The Toxic Avenger'' may be the most emblematic New Jersey production this year, other highlights promise to provide an eclectic mix for theatergoers. 
 A revival of ''Garden of Earthly Delights'' by Martha Clarke, a play that explores heaven, hell and the seven deadly sins, runs through Sept. 14 at the Two River Theater Company in Red Bank before moving to the Minetta Lane Theater in New York. 
 ''Rabbit Hole,'' by David Lindsay-Abaire, which won the Pulitzer Prize for drama in 2007, has a run at Premiere Stages at Kean University through Sept. 21. The emotional drama, directed by John Wooten, the artistic director of Premiere Stages, portrays the struggles of a married couple after the accidental death of a child. 
 Another Pulitzer Prize-winning play, ''Doubt,'' by John Patrick Shanley, is running at Cape May Stage's Robert Shackleton Playhouse through Sept. 27. Things take a turn for the bizarre at the McCarter Theater in Princeton through Oct. 12 when B. D. Wong tackles the one-man musical ''Herringbone.'' Mr. Wong, known to television viewers from the long-running series ''Law & Order: Special Victims Unit,'' won a Tony Award in 1989 for his role in ''M. Butterfly.''
 He plays 11 characters in ''Herringbone,'' a song-and-dance tale of vaudeville, murder and possession.
 After selling its buildings and property to the Township of Millburn, the Paper Mill Playhouse opens its 70th season with a nod to the old followed by a dance with the new. Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Oklahoma!'' runs Sept. 17 to Oct. 19, followed by Disney's ''High School Musical'' -- a show familiar to most teenagers, preteenagers and their parents -- from Nov. 5 to Dec. 7.
 What might be called a long-awaited revival of ''To the Ladies!'' by George S. Kaufman and Marc Connelly is being staged Sept. 17 to Oct. 18 by the East Lynne Theater Company at the First Presbyterian Church in Cape May. The company says the last known production of the comedy, set in Nutley, was in 1926. 
 Centenary Stage Company presents the American premiere of ''A Laughing Matter,'' a comedy that takes a behind-the-scenes look at the first production of ''She Stoops to Conquer,'' Oct. 10 to 26 in Hackettstown.
 Crossroads Theater Company in New Brunswick marks its 30th anniversary by digging into its past with new stagings of productions that started there: ''The Colored Museum,'' a satire by George C. Wolfe that premiered in 1986, runs Sept. 25 to Oct. 5; ''It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues,'' a musical originally produced in 1998, will be revived Nov. 6 to 23; and ''Sheila's Day,'' a civil rights drama that was created in a Crossroads workshop in 1989, takes the stage April 16 through May 3.
 Meanwhile, Luna Stage in Montclair looks to the new with three world premieres on its schedule: ''Fair and Decent'' by Thomas H. Diggs, about backroom politics in Washington, Oct. 2 to Nov. 2; ''After Adam'' by Christina Ham, about an African-American family coping with dysfunction, Jan. 29 to March 1; and ''Not God'' by Marc J. Straus, a play in verse about the doctor-patient relationship, April 16 to May 17.
 The Surflight Theater in Beach Haven offers ''A Few Good Men'' by Aaron Sorkin, the courtroom drama about the killing of an American marine at Guantanamo Bay, Oct. 1 to 5.
 Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater opens a new comedy by Suzanne Bradbeer on Oct. 31 titled ''You Miss Them When They're Not Around,'' about a pregnant woman trying to evict some ghosts from her house so she can sell it. The play runs through Nov. 16.
 Passage Theater Company in Trenton is staging ''The Summer House'' by Amber Kain, a comic thriller about a family vacationing in the Catskills, Oct. 30 to Nov. 23.
 Suzzanne Douglas reprises her starring role in ''Lady Day at Emerson's Bar and Grill,'' Jan. 22 to Feb. 15 at the Bickford Theater at the Morris Museum in Morristown. Ms. Douglas performed the role at the George Street Playhouse in 2001.
 John Pietrowski directs the New Jersey premiere of the drama ''Augusta'' by Richard Dresser at Playwrights Theater in Madison Jan. 30 to Feb. 15. 
 As part of its second season at Playwrights Theater, the 12 Miles West Theater Company is staging ''True West,'' Sam Shepard's look at two feuding brothers who both have two sides to their personalities. It runs Feb. 26 to March 22.
 ''Sick,'' a new comedy by Zayd Dohrn about a family that isolate themselves in their house in an effort to avoid illness, runs Feb. 12 to March 15 as part of a National New Play Network ''rolling world premiere.'' Under the program, the play will have three successive openings: at the Kitchen Dog Theater in Dallas, then at the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch, followed by the Southern Repertory Theater in New Orleans.
 On the schedule of the Women's Theater Company in Parsippany is ''Secrets of a Soccer Mom'' by Kathleen Clark, May 22 to June 7.
 And for those who want to brush up their Shakespeare, multiple opportunities are available, including: ''Twelfth Night,'' a co-production with the Shakespeare Theater Company in Washington, at the McCarter, March 8 to 29; and the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey's ''Romeo and Juliet,'' Oct. 15 to Nov. 16, and ''The Winter's Tale,'' Dec. 3 to 28, at the F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater in Madison. The Actors Shakespeare Company offers ''Henry V,'' March 19 to April 5, at New Jersey City University in Jersey City. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ONSTAGE AND OFF: Clockwise from left: Egil Rostad and Gabrielle Malone in the Two River Theater production ''Garden of Earthly Delights''
John Dods working on a mask prototype for the George Street Playhouse rock musical ''Toxic Avenger''
and Mary Baird and Paul Bernardo in the Cape May Stage presentation of the Pulitzer Prize-winning drama ''Doubt.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS: Clockwise from left: ERIN BAIANO
LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TINA GIAIMO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); POP & ROCK (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); CHILDREN (65%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (65%); PAPER & PACKAGING (58%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



161 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DATABANK; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Gain, Stocks Lose and Jobs Vanish

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
It was the worst week for the stock market in months but a much better one for bonds.
 A Labor Department report on Friday showed that the unemployment rate soared in August to 6.1 percent from 5.7 percent the previous month, providing further indication of the extent of weakness in the economy. Oil prices settled at $106.23 a barrel in New York, down from $115.46 the previous week. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 322.59 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 11,200.96. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 40.52 points, or 3.2 percent, to close at 1,242.31. The Nasdaq composite index fell 111.64 points, or 4.7 percent, to close at 2,255.88. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.70 percent from 3.81 percent the previous week.
 JEFF SOMMER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



162 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON FILM INDEPENDENTS' DAYS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Independents' Days The Revolution Is Dead, Long Live the Revolution

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
INDEPENDENCE in the movies is a cri de coeur and an occasionally profitable branding ploy, but mostly it's a seductive lie. For much of American movie history it has been shorthand for more aesthetically adventurous films, bolder in form, freer in spirit and at times more overtly political than those churned out by the Hollywood studios. Once we were one nation under the movie screen, indivisible, with liberty and Shirley Temple for all, but independent film gave us new ways of looking, or so the story goes. Never mind that John Cassavetes, the patron saint of independent cinema, struggled for attention and dollars for much of his filmmaking career. 
 The current line on independent film, depending on who's doing the spinning and why, is that it's dead, in crisis or at least in trouble. The death notices are mainly attributable to the recent closing and retrenchment of a handful of small companies, though the biggest shock occurred earlier this year when Time Warner, the multinational that owns Warner Brothers Entertainment and HBO, dismantled three of its subsidiaries -- New Line Cinema, Picturehouse and the paradoxically named Warner Independent Pictures -- firing hundreds and absorbing others into the host body. 
 The news has inspired passionate response, as well as the usual gloom and doom. Certainly it is bad news for those who have lost their jobs, but I'm not persuaded that it means all that much for true independents, those who have never worked inside the studios, never wanted to and probably couldn't if they tried. I don't think it means much for Kelly Reichardt, who made the lovely independent film ''Wendy and Lucy,'' and is unlikely to direct the next comic book blowout, because her aesthetic sensibility and worldview are of no economic use and interest to the studios or to most audiences either. That's not a bad thing, not even remotely, especially for those who think films have worth beyond their box office returns.
 As long as there's been a Hollywood, there has been an off-Hollywood, outsiders and mavericks who show their movies any which way they can, at film societies, art houses and ethnic theaters. There was always overlap between these worlds, but it wasn't until the 1990s and the ascendancy of Miramax Films that that the two became so interdependent as to be, at times. nearly indistinguishable. History was on Miramax's side: In the 1980s, while Hollywood was bingeing on blockbusters, the sleepy independent film world was jolted awake by Jim Jarmusch's downtown cool, Spike Lee's urban style and the provocations of other D.I.Y. free-thinkers offering something new, different, electric. They were punks with cameras, and they shook the dust off a moribund scene.
 It was an exciting moment -- I still remember the horrendous tinny sound at the Quad Cinema in Manhattan, where I first saw ''She's Gotta Have It'' -- and galvanizing. It felt as if a new generation had sprung up, the first identifiable American cinema movement in years. Like John Cassavetes, Jonas Mekas, Shirley Clarke, Robert Frank, Lionel Rogosin and others, Mr. Jarmusch and Mr. Lee had turned the camera into a means of self-expression with passion, poetry, attitude and not much money. One micro-budgeted feature after another followed from newcomers like Joel and Ethan Coen (''Blood Simple''), Wayne Wang (''Dim Sum'') and Gus Van Sant (''Mala Noche''). Some were amateurish, others slick, but nobody seemed to be auditioning for Hollywood. Well, maybe the Coens. 
 Miramax capitalized on this movement, turning that spirit into a brand. When the Walt Disney Company bought Miramax in 1993, one industry analyst explained the deal as ''a further step in the diversification of the studio away from too much reliance on the animated product line.'' With few exceptions, the independent film world was happy to help Hollywood diversify in return for a piece of the action. The largest nonprofit independent membership organization, then called the Independent Feature Project (the Los Angeles chapter later seceded), decreed that studio movies were eligible for its annual Spirit Awards. Since 1994, almost every top Spirit Award winner had its feeding tube stuck in a studio, beginning with that year's ''Pulp Fiction,'' Miramax's $100 million-plus payday.
 Over the past decade and a half a substantial infrastructure has grown up around independent cinema, which now includes producers, distributors, exhibitors, festivals, organizations, cable channels, how-to guides, publications and blogs. Indie film has its own stars, auteurs and even its own orgy of self-congratulation in the Spirit Awards, which are attended by some of the same people who wear pricier threads to the Oscars the very next day. In February, Angelina Jolie, nominated for ''A Mighty Heart'' (released by Paramount Vantage) strolled into the awards with a baby bump, Brad Pitt and a security detail. She lost to Ellen Page's baby bump in ''Juno'' (Fox Searchlight).
 Seated some distance from Brad, Angie and the holy zygote was Ronald Bronstein, a New York filmmaker who had been nominated for a special Someone to Watch award for ''Frownland.'' This $50,000 jackpot is given, to quote the event organizers, ''to a talented filmmaker of singular vision who has not yet received appropriate recognition.'' That sounds like a classic description of most independent directors, but in an indie world so dominated by studio thinking and taste, a film like ''Frownland'' comes across as so different (so weird) that it has to be segregated from the big show. 
 With its grubby milieu and rivers of mucus, ''Frownland'' isn't a calling-card film or a Hollywood tale told on the cheap. It was never going to attract a mass audience, and I doubt that Mr. Bronstein would disagree. It's a tough, prickly (grainy!) film, and I've thought more about it than I have about most of the big studio productions I've seen this year. Most studio films are enormous nets, designed to scoop up the largest possible global audience. The specialty divisions, in turn, aim for niche audiences with more talk, less action (thanks to Quentin Tarantino, sometimes both); would-be auteurs or the real deal; and as many talking points as the Democratic National Convention (racism and sexism bad, multiculturalism good). 
 Most of these niche films are nice, polite films of the sort you hear about on National Public Radio in between sob stories and pledge drives. Some are indelible works of art. Most are disposable, and many look, sound and play out, beat for beat, like Hollywood movies with lower budgets. Their provocations are superficial, tiny jabs against putative political correctness, like those of the pregnant teenager in ''Juno.'' These are not films that will ever create a new wave; they barely make a ripple, and intentionally so, since each ripple might threaten possible revenue. Better to make audiences smile than make them squirm, better to reassure them than shake them up, better to stay safe than say, ''Sorry, Mr. Murdoch.'' 
 For my part, I am honestly sorry to see those small studio companies go, but their closings say less about independent film than they do about Hollywood. Some of the best American films of the past decade, including Paul Thomas Anderson's ''There Will Be Blood'' (Paramount Vantage and Miramax), have been put out by specialty divisions, and it's an open question whether corporate giants that close these units, like Time Warner, have the will to bring out movies that can't be summed up in one sentence. It's also an openquestion how Hollywood's retreat will affect the indie infrastructure. The infernal buzz machine seemed quieter at this year's Sundance and Cannes festivals, despite quality films like ''Momma's Man,'' ''Sugar,'' ''Wendy and Lucy'' and ''Ballast.''
 Lance Hammer's ''Ballast,'' an elegiac, rapturously lovely story set in the Mississippi Delta and featuring a cast of unknown black actors, would have been news in any year, but it means more now because it's another reminder that independent filmmaking means more than signing with Fox Searchlight. And, indeed, of these four films I just mentioned -- all idiosyncratic, intensely personal, stylistically venturesome, nonformulaic -- only ''Sugar'' will be released by a studio division, Sony Pictures Classics. ''Momma's Man'' is being released by tiny Kino International and ''Wendy and Lucy'' will reach theaters later this year courtesy of a newcomer, Oscilloscope Pictures. Mr. Hammer originally signed on with IFC Films, but, believing he could improve profits without a middleman, especially in today's overcrowded market, has decided to release his movie by himself. 
 He has some help, namely the indie executive turned consultant Steven Raphael, who is part of a new, fast-growing D.I.Y. movement that has sprung up largely because there are not enough distributors ready and able to release the current flood of movies. With the support of some publicists, Mr. Hammer and Mr. Raphael will attempt to do what usually takes an army of handlers and entire studio departments to pull off. Mr. Hammer is creating the poster artwork and making the trailer, and together they are booking mainstream theaters and also taking ''Ballast'' around the country to universities, film clubs and art centers, just the way many independents have sought and found audiences for decades. 
 Mr. Hammer and Mr. Raphael are cautiously optimistic about the film's chances when it opens in New York on Oct. 1. But it will be tough no matter how elegant the poster or positive the reviews. Great films open and close before they can find an audience, even when cushioned by the love of the critics or studio dollars. The means of production may be in more hands than ever before, but getting audiences into theaters is also more difficult. Even with their numbers thinned, specialty divisions duke it out by spending more, monopolizing theaters and wooing the entertainment news media. Like their big-studio brethren, they try to buy their opening weekends. 
 If all the studios followed the lead of Time Warner and got out of the indie film business, it might help a film like ''Ballast'' find its way into the larger world, though that's no guarantee. And perhaps that's the wrong way to look at it. Guarantees are for washing machines, after all, not art, and films like ''Ballast'' and ''Wendy and Lucy'' don't need big distributors, a mass audience or a Spirit Award to prove their worth. Like the finest independents, they aren't trying to emulate Hollywood, and while Michelle Williams has the lead role in ''Wendy and Lucy,'' it isn't the kind of film that can be sold on a starlet's smile. Like ''Ballast'' it will make its way into theaters, where it will be much loved and remembered long after it leaves.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the impact of the closing of independent film studios misidentified the movie in which Flo Jacobs was shown with Matt Boren. It is ''Momma's Man,'' not ''Momma's Boy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Indie spirit: JimMyron Ross, left, and Micheal J. Smith Sr. in Lance Hammer's ''Ballast.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC FILMS)
Pascal Gregory, right, in ''La France,'' which found a distributor in a nonprofit cinematheque. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PYRAMIDE INTERNATIONAL)
 Flo Jacobs and Matt Boren and Azazel Jacobs's ''Momma's Boy,'' a hit at film festivals this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AZAZEL JACOBS) (pg.AR55) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM HISTORY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); DEATHS (68%); DISMISSALS (66%); TICKET SALES (62%)

COMPANY: NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



163 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: If the Pay Fix Is In, Good Luck Finding It

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TWO years ago, when the Securities and Exchange Commission began requiring companies to explain performance targets used to calculate incentive pay for executives, shareholders hoped that the rule would discourage fat compensation awards for thin results. 
 With two years of data in hand, how is the new rule working? In some cases, well -- but in most, not at all.
 Under the rule, companies were supposed to divulge performance benchmarks -- growth in earnings per share, for example -- and why they were chosen. Companies were also supposed to detail the range of performance under which incentive payouts would be made, and the corresponding payout percentages. 
 But many companies are simply not bothering to comply. At least that's the conclusion of a study by James F. Reda & Associates, a compensation consulting firm in New York that analyzed a representative sample of the medium-size companies in the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400-stock index. 
 According to the most recent proxy filings, which covered 2007 results, only 47 percent of the companies made the required disclosures concerning short-term incentive pay, like cash bonuses. While this figure is substantially higher than the 23 percent that complied with the rule in 2006, it is nonetheless distressing.
 On long-term incentive pay, which typically includes grants of stock options or restricted shares, the compliance was a more robust 62 percent last year. In 2006, only 41 percent of companies adhered to the rule, the Reda study showed. 
 When it devised its disclosure rule, the S.E.C. gave companies a sizable loophole, excusing them from detailed disclosure of targets if they believed that publishing such figures would put them at a disadvantage in their industry. Many companies -- no surprise -- make this claim.
 Some say, for example, that if they publicize their targets, competitors could hire away their executives during years that performance benchmarks were not met and bonuses were not dispensed. 
 James F. Reda, founder of the firm that conducted the study, doesn't buy that view. ''This argument of competitive harm is a pretty weak one,'' he said. ''I think they don't want the bright light to be shone on their situation because it gives them the flexibility to give a bonus when it isn't earned.''
 Companies may also be choosing not to disclose specific benchmarks because those figures may be significantly different from financial targets that executives at these corporations have promised Wall Street analysts and investors -- indicating that the boards in question are setting their bars too low and generating bonuses too easily.
 ''The goals companies are using for bonus plans may be a lot lower than what they are telling analysts they reasonably expect to meet,'' Mr. Reda said. ''If all companies in an industry published their goals, I don't see where the competitive disadvantage would be.''
 THE most common benchmarks companies use today are earnings per share and total shareholder return, usually measured against the performance of a group of industry peers. Other targets are growth in income, sales or cash flow. 
 Regardless of the type of benchmark used, Mr. Reda says his firm's study supports his thesis that too many companies use performance benchmarks that are a breeze to exceed. In proxies from both 2006 and 2007, some 60 percent of companies met or beat their targets, generating short-term payouts. 
 ''If the goal is set fairly, if it is a true incentive, the likelihood of companies achieving it would be 50-50,'' Mr. Reda said. ''This says they are not really earning the bonuses because the goals are being set too low.''
 Compliance problems aren't limited to midsize companies, Mr. Reda said. Based on a preliminary review of large, blue-chip concerns, less than 30 percent appeared to be fully complying with the disclosure rules in their most recent proxies.
 There were bright spots in the study. A greater number of companies, 24 percent, withheld short-term incentive pay in 2007 compared with the previous year, when 11 percent didn't make such awards. 
 While some investors might assume this improvement has to do with a tough economy, Mr. Reda says he thinks it shows instead that the disclosure rule is starting to have the desired effect, even if most companies aren't yet complying. 
 ''Now that they have to disclose a goal, the bonus is harder to fudge,'' he said. ''We're talking about short-term plans, after all, where goals are set within the first three months of the year when it is pretty clear what's going on.''
 As summer turns to fall, corporate boards are in the throes of discussing disclosure plans for their 2008 proxy filings. Companies are likely to continue fighting disclosure, Mr. Reda said, especially those that have no real performance thresholds -- or very reachable ones.
 And if the S.E.C. does not enforce its rule, companies will be all the more emboldened to flout it. The commission said it would not pursue nonfilers immediately after the rule change so that companies could become accustomed to the new requirement. It is unclear how aggressive regulators will be now that we are in Year 2 of the regulation -- or when the commission will decide that it's time to enforce its own rules. 
 Shareholders both large and small may have to take up this matter themselves. If companies keep circumventing the disclosure rule, even as they pretend that pay is linked to performance, stockholders should demand the disclosures they are supposed to make. 
 Directors who say they represent company owners may ignore these pleas, of course. That wouldn't be surprising. Because it has been clear for some time now that pay for performance across corporate America will never become the norm without a fight. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James F. Reda, a pay consultant, examined corporate bonus disclosure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BENCHMARKING (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



164 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Available Soon Online: Fun From Depression-Era Playland

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: RYE 

 BODY:
 IT is hard to squelch the human desire for fun. It seems almost a bodily need, like food and sleep. Even war and catastrophe won't dampen it entirely. 
 That is part of the charm of more than 3,000 photographs of Playland that within a year will become available on the Internet. Most were taken in the depths of the Depression, and they show that even then, grown-ups and children shrieked with delight as they spun, soared, plunged and careered on Playland's carnival of rides.
 The photographs, taken by contracted photographers to document one of the nation's few government-run amusement parks, have long been housed at the Westchester County's Archives and Records Center in Elmsford, but as a result of a state grant last month, they will be scanned so they can be seen at www.westchesterarchives.com. 
 Playland opened in 1928, replacing two private amusement parks that, along with supposedly unsavory boarding-houses, had given a raffish air to that part of otherwise affluent Rye. A year later the stock market crashed, setting off a tailspin only a little less steep than that of Playland's Dragon Coaster. More than a quarter of the nation lost jobs.
 But that did not stop folks from coming to Playland, with its white-and-aqua stucco casino, music tower and other Art Deco buildings. They came by car, bus and steamer boat. (Playland had its own pier.) Even on the most jolting of rides, they wore their Sunday best. One photograph shows three women playing miniature golf in high heels; another shows a man in a double-breasted suit and a companion in a fur stole and cloche hat reveling in the roller coaster. 
 Perhaps it's a result of photographers looking for flattering shots, but pleasure is almost always written on the customers' faces. Two girls, one with a ribbon in her hair and an anxious finger in her mouth, sit with anticipation as the Whip is about to hurl them around. A manager of the S. Klein's department store on Union Square in Manhattan looks pleasantly embarrassed to be spending the day with two dozen of his saleswomen -- the Mother's Club.
 ''These represent family amusement at a time of stress,'' said Patricia N. Dohrenwend, director of the archives, as she showed off some photographs. ''It took them away from their worries. It evokes a period when people were trying to escape.'' 
 There was a prudishness that today can startle. Men were not allowed to bathe topless at the pool and beach -- that's right, men -- until a change in fashion overwhelmed even Rye. One photograph shows a sign: ''Undressing in Cars Prohibited by Law/$5 Fine.'' The reason, said Gray Williams Jr., a Westchester historian, was an official county philosophy that ''if you were going to have an amusement park, it was going to be civilized, respectable.''
 From the vantage of YouTube and of Grand Theft Auto video games, there is a touching innocence to some attractions. The photographs show that visitors could have their handwriting analyzed or their weight guessed, winning a box of candy if the purported maven was off by three pounds or more. Couples could dress up as grooms and brides against a panorama of Niagara Falls, or brave a ''jungle'' of lifelike animals that promised what a sign called ''the realistic thrill of darkest Africa.'' By 1935, when the economy was so dire that Playland had to lure customers with gimmicks, they could even win a car.
 Playland, whose season ends today, now draws more than 850,000 visitors a year. 
 On a recent Tuesday when the skies were flawless, families skipping a workday and teenagers savoring the last days of summer enjoyed some of the same rides that people in the photographs did. Twelve of the original rides, including the carousel, with 66 jeweled steeds and a thrumming calliope, are still in operation. 
 The crowd was varied to a degree that might have surprised the photograph subjects. They could have seen an Orthodox Jewish man with four boys whose ritual fringes were dangling out of their shirts, a Muslim woman in a lime-green robe and headscarf and an Asian woman in a wheelchair with a child perched on her lap. 
 There was a caution characteristic of our time, not the 1930s, in part in recognition of occasional fatal accidents -- three since 2004. ''This dark ride may be too scary for children to ride alone,'' warned a sign in front of a haunted-house ride. ''Parents and guardians should use caution and discretion.''
 Peter Trahanas, an 82-year-old Greek immigrant who has operated a novelty shop on Playland's midway since 1955, has seen these changes, but also knows that in Playland's 80 years there have been some constants.
 ''I think it's important to break the monotony of work and have fun once in a while,'' he said. ''Life is short.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THRILLS AND SMILES: Four on a Playland rollercoaster about 1930. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WESTCHESTER COUNTY ARCHIVES AND RECORDS CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); GOLF (64%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



165 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Bilateral Commitments

BYLINE: By GAIUTRA BAHADUR. 
Gaiutra Bahadur, a freelance reporter based in London, is at work on a book about women who left India to replace slaves on Caribbean sugar plantations.

 BODY:
ONE MORE YEAR
 Stories
 By Sana Krasikov
 229 pp. Spiegel & Grau. $21.95
 The short stories in Sana Krasikov's first collection unfold in two contemporary landscapes: the former Soviet Union and New York City and its suburbs. But an entirely unrelated setting might help explain why these stories work as well as they do: 17th-century India, where court artists created illuminated manuscripts of the ancient Hindu epic the ''Ramayana.'' Rather than freeze a single location or moment in one frame, each painting portrays several episodes, so the characters seem to exist in more than a single place and time all at once. 
 Many of the men and women in ''One More Year'' have the same complex quality of simultaneity. Emigres from the former Soviet republics, they live in constant flashback. They also occupy multiple time zones, thinking, for example, how late it must be in Tbilisi, where a teenage son has been left behind, or Uzbekistan, where a husband has been deserted to consider an ultimatum -- her or me. Like most modern migrants, the characters in these eight stories inhabit both past and present, homeland and new land. 
 A 2,000-year-old Hindu morality tale might not seem like a natural influence for Krasikov, an Ashkenazi Jew born in Ukraine and raised in Georgia and the United States. But -- like the story of Rama, who is banished to a forest where his wife fends off the advances of a many-headed seducer -- ''One More Year'' is chiefly about exile and fidelity. Krasikov's migrantka (they are mainly women) enact two plots: leaving their country and leaving their love(r). But the moral certainties of the ''Ramayana'' are missing from the world Krasikov has imagined, in which characters must and do make compromises in order to survive. 
 In ''Better Half,'' Anya, a 22-year-old waitress, marries one of her customers, a boy-man who views her as his Russian queen but treats her with jealous contempt. She is an illegal immigrant who wants a green card; her husband is an American citizen. He is in love; she isn't, really. She gets a protection order after he punches her in the face, but accepts him back into her bed during a spell of loneliness. Throughout the story, it's unclear who is using whom. 
 Krasikov renders Anya as both exploiter and exploited, cutting into the layers of her feeling for her abusive mate: '' 'You love me,' he'd told her the second night they'd spent together. She thought he'd been kidding, but then he'd said: 'You do. If I died tomorrow, you'd come to my funeral and say you loved me.' 'Don't say things like that,' she'd scolded, while a fat tear slid down her cheek. Maybe she really did love him that time. After all, who else was there to?'' 
 Krasikov once worked as a reporter for a newspaper in New Hampshire, and she knows both the emotional texture and the legal minutiae of the lives of immigrants the way a journalist might. (After the waitress's husband hits her, a lawyer tells her she can petition for resident papers as a domestic violence victim.) But Krasikov's cast of exiles, refugees and repatriates are also, more fundamentally, people moving in and out of love -- or what passes for it. She has written a sensitive book about the economics of relationships: how they can become subtle transactions by people trying to pull off the trick of occupying more than one place and more than one time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TATIANA KRASIKOV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); IMMIGRATION (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); GEORGIA (90%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

TITLE: One More Year: Stories (Book)>; One More Year: Stories (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



166 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE VOICE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Semisweet Smell of Success

BYLINE: As told to JOSEPH HUFF-HANNON

 BODY:
ALI AFZAL, the 45-year-old owner of R. A. Fragrances and Perfumes, can enter a crowded room and tell who is wearing Jean Paul Gaultier, Givenchy or his personal favorite, Acqua di Gio from Armani. 
 But Mr. Afzal's skills have not shielded him or the city's perfume district, which runs along Broadway from about 28th to 34th Street, from the nation's economic downturn. Behind the counter of his fragrant store near 31st Street, a modest space lined with boxes in pink, red and aquamarine, Mr. Afzal pointed out that the low value of the dollar hurts perfume merchants particularly because they buy their goods abroad. As a result, he has had to double some of his prices, and business has declined. 
 Mr. Afzal, a soft-spoken man with a closely cropped beard, was born in Pakistan and now lives with his wife and three children in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. One recent afternoon, as customers inspected the perfume boxes stacked nearly to the ceiling and haggled with his clerks over prices, Mr. Afzal talked about the life of a local perfume dealer. JOSEPH HUFF-HANNON 
 I've owned this store for 10 years, and I've been in this industry for 17. Since this is the only job that I've had in the U.S., it's what I know. You have to keep on top of all the new perfumes, because new labels come out every month. One of the newest is Moschino Hippy Frizz; this has a fruity, summery scent. If you really want to be in this business, you need to have knowledge about the different scents, because there are very subtle differences. Some scents are citrusy, some are spicy, some are very bold, some are quiet.
 People feel better when they wear something that makes them feel nice, that makes them feel attractive. Who doesn't want to help people feel better?
 Here we do wholesale and retail; we know our customers well, and they are all complaining about the costs. One big problem now is that the prices are fluctuating so much. Something might cost me $20, and tomorrow it will cost me $22. A bottle of Dolce & Gabbana that was $36 wholesale just a year ago, I'm now buying it for $56. 
 The dollar keeps falling, and as a retailer we don't have a lot of flexibility, because most of the perfumes are coming from Europe: Chanel, Drakkar Noir, Joop. We don't mark it up as much as they do at Macy's. That's why people shop here.
 But in this market, some customers are losing their trust because there are a lot more people selling fakes now, down on Canal Street, or out on the street here. That's another result of the dollar losing ground. People are getting priced out of the brands, so they are buying fakes instead. Earlier this year, some guys set up tables to sell bootleg perfumes right across the street from Macy's. 
 We used to have a lot of customers coming from South America, tourists from Brazil or Argentina, but we don't see many of them anymore. Now maybe because of the better currency exchange they can afford to buy it down there; they don't need to shop in New York. But most of our clientele is still Spanish-speaking. I speak a little bit of Spanish, a little bit of French. I learned it all working here.
 Our busiest months are right before Christmas, but this past year was definitely slower. I have six people working with me in the store now. I'm lucky because I haven't had to lay anybody off, but I couldn't hire anybody else now either. Still, we all get along. Everybody works hard. 
 Sometimes I get very stressed out. Today I'm O.K., but there are many, many expenses -- salaries, electricians, so many different city taxes -- and our profit margin isn't that high. And in this neighborhood the rent goes up 15 or 20 percent every year. 
 This past year they wanted to raise the rent 50 percent over three years. I negotiated something better, but at the end of the day this won't all add up. If our rents keep going up, and the price of perfume keeps going up, I don't know how long they'll be able to call this neighborhood the perfume district.
 In the future I've been thinking of maybe just going into warehousing and shipping. But all of your orders come in by fax or e-mail, and I would miss having a store, talking to customers face to face. We have many regular customers, some of them have their own little stores, and they come in to buy three or four bottles of this or that. 
 These days the most popular perfume for women is Code, by Armani. Also Juicy Couture, that is a big one. The most expensive ones now are Dolce & Gabbana, and the price has gone up and up and up. Many customers don't understand why. We have to explain that we aren't raising the price because we want to, but because we have to.
 My family is happy with my work. I bring my wife perfumes, and she wears whatever I bring home. She likes them all. My father is still in Pakistan; I visit once or twice a year. And yes, of course, when I go to visit, I always bring perfumes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); US DOLLAR (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



167 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FRIEDMAN, ROSS MANDEL

 BODY:
 FRIEDMAN--Ross Mandel, 55, a former staff attorney for the New York City Department of Environmental Protection, died Sunday, August 31st at The Village of Laurel Lakes Assisted Living Center in Lee, MA, after suffering from Huntington's Disease for more than 20 years. Friedman, a life-long environmentalist, spent a majority of his legal career involved with complex acid rain litigation in order to protect the Catskill Watershed area of New York City. He played a significant role in the construction of Manhattan's North River waste water treatment plant. 
This public works project integrates 28-acre Riverbank State Park atop one of the world's largest sewage treatment facilities. Born February 21, 1953 in Oakland, California, Friedman was the son of the late Julian Richard Friedman, a University of California at Berkeley political science professor, and the late Marian Nieder Friedman, a social worker and civil rights activist. He attended elementary school in Berkeley before living in Kenya, East Africa where he attended Greenland School for a year, and then moving permanently to Syracuse, New York. He was an honors graduate of Syracuse's Nottingham High School, where he served as school vice president, and a graduate of University of Wisconsin at Madison, where he studied economics. He received his doctorate of law from Syracuse University School of Law. Friedman was deeply committed to environmental issues. While studying law, he served as a summer intern at the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation in Albany. Following law school, he was a fulltime volunteer for the Environmental Defense League and Sierra Club, and served as a field coordinator for Presidential Candidate Mo Udall, the former Arizona Congressman who was a strong environmental advocate. A lifelong sports enthusiast, he was a highly ranked junior tennis player in the Eastern Lawn Tennis Association, captain of the perennial state powerhouse Nottingham High School Tennis Team and played on the Division One varsity tennis team at the University of Wisconsin. In his mid-20s, he became an avid marathon runner and finished several New York City Marathons in less than 3 hours. He was a serious skier, who frequented North America's most challenging ski mountains such as Whistler Mountain in British Columbia, Taos in New Mexico and Jackson Hole in Wyoming. While stricken with Huntington's Disease, a progressive neurological illness, Friedman became an accomplished therapeutic horseback rider. He is survived by his uncle, Bailey Nieder of Seattle, WA; his brothers, Clark Arnold Friedman of Needham, MA, and Thomas Harold Friedman, Newton, MA; and two nieces and a nephew. Memorial services will be announced by the family. Donations should be sent to Blue Rider Stable, P.O. Box 924, Great Barrington, MA 01230. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TENNIS (88%); SPORTS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); ATHLETES (88%); SKIING (86%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ACID RAIN (72%); GENETIC DISEASES (72%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (71%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); RUNNING (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); MARATHONS (66%); SPORTS FANS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



168 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 11292 words

HEADLINE: From Bold Works to Bits of Americana

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
 Dates are subject to change.
 SEPTEMBER
 'THE FLY' Some of the horror visited on the audience at the world premiere of this opera in Paris in July was turned back on its creators by the critics. Maybe a return to Hollywood is just what this hoary tale needs. Howard Shore, who wrote the music for David Cronenberg's 1986 film of the same name with Jeff Goldblum (itself a remake), is also the composer here, working to a libretto by David Henry Hwang. Mr. Cronenberg directs a cast including Daniel Okulitch in the title role, and Placido Domingo conducts. Opens Sunday. Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, Los Angeles, (213) 972-8001, losangelesopera.com.
 MUSICIANS FOR HARMONY On the seventh anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks comes this organization's seventh annual concert for peace. Karim Wasfi, a Baghdad cellist and the director of the Iraqi National Symphony Orchestra, will give the American premiere of Mohammed Amin Ezzat's ''Janan'' (''Requiem'') for cello and string orchestra. The Knights are the string orchestra, and other performers include the Shanghai Quartet and the violist Michael Tree of the Guarneri Quartet in Brahms's G major Quintet (Op. 111). Thursday. Merkin Concert Hall. 
 SIGNAL This band calls itself a ''new-music supergroup,'' as well it might. It includes the membership of So Percussion, as well as members of Alarm Will Sound, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, Gutbucket and other ensembles, directed by Brad Lubman. Here, in the first of a projected series of composer portraits, it offers music of Steve Reich: ''You Are (Variations)'' and the brilliant Music for 18 Musicians. Saturday-Sunday. Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (800) 838-3006, lepoissonrouge.com
 'ORESTEIA' Even before Gerard Mortier arrives at the New York City Opera next season, New York is becoming a hotbed of modernist opera. The Lincoln Center Festival offered a lavish production of one monument of the genre, Bernd Alois Zimmermann's ''Soldaten,'' this summer, and the Miller Theater counters with a staged production of another, Iannis Xenakis's ''Oresteia,'' to open its 20th-anniversary season. The choreographer Luca Veggetti directs, and the versatile veteran bass Wilbur Pauley is backed by a chorus of 36, a children's chorus and six dancers. Saturday, Sept. 16-17.
 'THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER' As Americans have increasingly had opportunities to learn of late, Chinese opera, laden not only with music and drama but also with acrobatics, choreography and elaborate costuming, is a different species from Western opera. Are they in any way compatible? Tan Dun, Bright Sheng and other Chinese-born composers have tried hybrids of varying proportions. This setting of a libretto by Amy Tan, drawn from her novel of the same name, at the San Francisco Opera, is the work of an American composer, Stewart Wallace, best known for his opera ''Harvey Milk.'' But several other principals were born in China, including the director, Chen Shi-Zheng, and a lead singer, Qian Yi, who were both crucial to the epic and epochal production of ''The Peony Pavilion'' at the Lincoln Center Festival in 1999. Opens Saturday. War Memorial Opera House, San Francisco, (415) 864-3330, sfopera.com.
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC In his last season as music director, Lorin Maazel will take on some big and substantial works and even a nonmusical issue or two. But he begins in typically frothy fashion, leading works by Berlioz, Ibert and Tchaikovsky, with James Galway as the flute soloist in the Ibert Concerto. Let's give Mr. Maazel credit at the outset for having kept the orchestra in fine technical fettle and evidently in good spirits. Sept. 17. Avery Fisher Hall.
 PAVAROTTI TRIBUTE A free performance of Verdi's Requiem on the stage of the Metropolitan Opera in memory of the tenor Luciano Pavarotti, who died last September, happily brings to mind my first encounter with his work, in Georg Solti's 1967 Decca recording of the piece with the Vienna Philharmonic. With its golden tone and easy projection, the voice struck with the force of revelation. Unhappily, the tribute also calls to mind my last encounter with Pavarotti in the work, in a 1996 performance conducted by James Levine at Carnegie Hall, where his performance was sloppy and uninvolved. But Mr. Levine and the Met forces were excellent, as they are sure to be here (Mr. Levine in his first performance since the removal of one of his kidneys in July). Marcello Giordani has the unenviable task of filling the Pavarotti role; the other soloists are Barbara Frittoli, Olga Borodina and Ildar Abdrazakov. Sept. 18. Metropolitan Opera House.
 JOAN TOWER Among the many celebrations of this composer's 70th birthday are three imaginatively packaged concerts by the Cassatt Quartet. In each, a Tower work for string quartet is preceded by the premiere of a work of another contemporary American (Libby Larsen, Sebastian Currier, Dan Welcher) and followed by a standard quartet that inspired Ms. Tower (Ravel, Beethoven, Shostakovich). Sept. 18; Oct. 2, 16. Symphony Space.
 DALLAS SYMPHONY Under its new music director, Jaap van Zweden, the orchestra offers a bold bit of Americana commissioned before his arrival: ''August 4, 1964,'' a full-evening ''concert drama'' commemorating the centennial of Lyndon B. Johnson's birth, by Steven Stucky to a libretto by Gene Scheer. See essay by Anthony Tommasini. Sept. 18-21. Meyerson Symphony Center, Dallas, (214) 692-0203, dallassymphony.com.
 STEVEN STUCKY On the same night that Mr. Stucky's ''August 4, 1964,'' has its premiere in Dallas, Lorin Maazel and the New York Philharmonic give the American premiere of his ''Rhapsodies.'' See essay by Anthony Tommasini. Sept. 18-20, 23. Avery Fisher Hall.
 METROPOLITAN OPERA Though Peter Gelb, the Met's general manager of recent years, has bad-mouthed opening-night galas of opera excerpts, he is nothing if not pragmatic. So when this year's gala, scheduled before his time, involves one of the house's top-selling artists, the soprano Renee Fleming, in acts from Verdi's ''Traviata,'' Massenet's ''Manon'' and Strauss's ''Capriccio,'' who is he to stand on ceremony? Ms. Fleming, wearing costumes specially created by top fashion designers, will be joined by Ramon Vargas, Thomas Hampson and Robert Lloyd. Meanwhile, Mr. Gelb will give Ms. Fleming the full New Met hype, with her visage plastered on every bus and bus shelter and in every subway station he can commandeer. Sept. 22.
 CAMERON CARPENTER Of the many high-profile organ events in the season, this early entry bids fair to be the most outlandish. Mr. Carpenter is not trying to be the next Virgil Fox, he insists; my guess, Fox was not nearly flamboyant enough for him. This little festival at the church where Mr. Carpenter is artist in residence begins with a release party for his new Telarc CD and DVD album and includes open rehearsals and concerts complete with improvisation. Mr. Carpenter had a major hand in designing the church's new classical and theatrical ''virtual pipe organ,'' made by Marshall & Ogletree, presumably similar to the digital organ that the same maker installed farther downtown in Trinity Church, which Mr. Carpenter used for the recording. The stress, in any case, is on ''theatrical,'' not only in some of the repertory choices but also, to judge from the recording, in almost all of the performances. Sept. 23-28. Middle Collegiate Church, 50 East Seventh Street, at Second Avenue, (212) 477-0666, organexpose.com.
 BERNSTEIN: THE BEST OF ALL POSSIBLE WORLDS Evidently Carnegie Hall looked back on its first citywide festival -- Berlin in Lights, mounted in collaboration with the Berlin Philharmonic and others last November -- and saw that it was good. For it opens its season with another: a celebration of Leonard Bernstein, who would have turned 90 on Aug. 25, this time with the New York Philharmonic as its chief partner. But the San Francisco Symphony takes the lead here, conducted by its music director, Michael Tilson Thomas, a Bernstein protege. Dawn Upshaw, Christine Ebersole, Thomas Hampson and Yo-Yo Ma (playing cello, happily, not singing), are the soloists in a program drawn from Bernstein's stage works. Sept. 24. Carnegie Hall.
 'LA GIOCONDA' It would be hard to top this Ponchielli revival for sheer female vocal power, with Deborah Voigt, in the title role, joined by Olga Borodina and Ewa Podles. And the men who have to compete? Aquiles Machado, Carlo Guelfi and Orlin Anastassov. Good luck with that. Opens Sept. 24. Metropolitan Opera House.
 LORIN MAAZEL Those with long memories may recall that Mr. Maazel, conducting the Pittsburgh Symphony in an Avery Fisher Hall still haunted by the ghost of Bernstein a mere three days after his death in 1990, failed even to note the occasion from the stage, let alone memorialize it in performance. Perhaps he has come to think better of Bernstein, or at least he's cozying up in the Best of All Possible Worlds festival. Mr. Maazel kicks off the New York Philharmonic's participation in the event, conducting Bernstein's Symphony No. 2 (''The Age of Anxiety'') and works by other Philharmonic music directors: the Adagio from Mahler's Symphony No. 10, Pierre Boulez's ''Improvisation II sur Mallarme'' from ''Pli Selon Pli'' and Mr. Maazel's own Music for Flute and Orchestra. Sept. 25-27. Avery Fisher Hall.
 SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY Having kicked off the Bernstein festivities at Carnegie Hall, Michael Tilson Thomas and the orchestra conclude their brief residency with, among other things, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, which Mariss Jansons and the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra will perform there again in March. Carnegie used to work hard to avoid such high-profile duplications. At least these are two conductors who should have much to say about the piece. Sept. 25-26. Carnegie Hall.
 PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO Never one to hide his many talents under a bushel, the director of the Metropolitan Museum is putting them center stage this season to commemorate his farewell next spring. The first of his three speaking appearances comes with music attached, a concert by the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra to open the Met's season, with Mr. de Montebello narrating a performance of Saint-Saens's ''Carnival of the Animals.'' A certain self-deprecation is implicit in taking on Ogden Nash's gently deflating satirical verses, and Mr. de Montebello can undoubtedly be counted on to make it grandly and orotundly explicit. The program also includes works by Mozart and Mendelssohn. Sept. 26. Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum.
 PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY The orchestra, after three years of experimentation with its music directorship split three ways, has reversed course with a new -- lone -- maestro from Europe: Manfred Honeck, a former violinist in the Vienna Philharmonic. Like Jaap van Zweden in Dallas, he sets out to establish quick credibility in American and contemporary music in his second program, with John Adams's ''Short Ride in a Fast Machine.'' Then he reverts to the most standard of repertory: Tchaikovsky's Violin Concerto, with Joshua Bell as soloist, and Mahler's First Symphony. Sept. 26-28. Heinz Hall, Pittsburgh, (412) 392-4900 or (800) 743-8560, pittsburghsymphony.org.
 WANAMAKER ORGAN Macy's is celebrating its 150th anniversary with a splashy concert in the Grand Court of the Wanamaker Building in Philadelphia, home to what is said to be the largest playable organ in the world (with 28,500 pipes) and now home to Macy's Center City. Peter Richard Conte, the Grand Court organist, is joined by the Philadelphia Orchestra and the conductor Rossen Milanov in the premiere of Howard Shore's ''Fanfare'' and works by Bach-Stokowski, Marcel Dupre and Joseph Jongen. Jongen's ''Symphonie Concertante'' (Op. 81) was commissioned for the newly expanded organ in 1926 but because of delays in restoration, it has never been performed there until now. Sept. 27. Macy's Center City, Philadelphia, (215) 893-1999, ticketphiladelphia.com.
 OCTOBER
 PACIFICA QUARTET This group, which gave well received performances of all 16 Beethoven string quartets at Columbia University last season, plays only the first program in the Metropolitan Museum's complete survey. It is followed by the Stradivari (Jan. 22), Talich (Feb. 5), Leipzig (March 12), Borealis (April 2) and Artis (May 7) quartets. Oct. 2. Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum.
 'AT THE BEGINNING, MONTEVERDI' It began as a case of repertory envy: a cellist wanting access to Monteverdi's glorious vocal duets. But as Sonia Wieder-Atherton undertook to transcribe them for two cellos, she began to hear resonances with works for solo cello by contemporary composers -- Luciano Berio, Pascal Dusapin, Henri Dutilleux and Gyorgy Kurtag -- and she has assembled it all into a program. Best to go with someone you know and like: some of the seating will be on sofas and, er, mattresses. Oct. 2-4. Le Skyroom, French Institute Alliance Francaise, 22 East 60th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100, fiaf.org. 
 NEW YORK CITY OPERA Most of the drama this season is behind the scenes, as the New York State Theater undergoes renovation (and a name change) and Gerard Mortier fills in the details of his battle plan for next season. ''Looking Forward,'' a concert program performed throughout the season in each of the city's five boroughs (ending in Alice Tully Hall, itself newly renovated, on April 11), is intended to set the musical tone for the Mortier regime with a survey of 20th-century styles. George Manahan, the company's music director, conducts works by Debussy, Stravinsky, Britten, Messiaen, Lukas Foss, Steve Reich and others. Oct. 4. St. George Theater, 35 Hyatt Street, Staten Island, (212) 870-5570, nycopera.com.
 TORONTO SYMPHONY New Yorkers long knew Peter Oundjian as the first violinist of the Tokyo String Quartet but have seen relatively little of him as a conductor (and most of that an hour north, at the Caramoor festival in Katonah, N.Y.). As music director of this orchestra since 2004, he seems to have nursed it back from its near-death experience of the preceding years, to judge, at least, from their recording of Bruckner's Fourth Symphony just released on the orchestra's own label, TSO Live. Here they perform Weill's ''Seven Deadly Sins,'' with Ute Lemper as vocalist, and Shostakovich's Symphony No. 11. Oct. 4. Carnegie Hall.
 JOHN SCOTT The complete organ works of Olivier Messiaen have been performed several times in New York over the last decade, and by comparison with Mr. Scott's project of two seasons ago, the complete organ works of Dietrich Buxtehude, his compleatist project for the Messiaen centenary seems almost commonplace. Well, not really; these pieces are many and monumental, and Mr. Scott is sure to bring an uncommon sensibility to bear. Oct. 4, 11, 18; Nov. 8, 15, 22. St. Thomas Church
 'DOCTOR ATOMIC' By way of San Francisco and Chicago (and Amsterdam), John Adams's Oppenheimer opera finds its way to the East Coast. (Opus Arte has just released a live recording from Amsterdam on DVD.) See essay by Anthony Tommasini. Opens Oct. 13. Metropolitan Opera House.
 'ETHEL'S TRUCKSTOP: THE BEGINNING' In a multimedia extravaganza, the trendy string quartet Ethel reprises collaborations with musicians who work in nonclassical traditions, touching on Texan conjunto style, American Indian music, bluegrass and others. See essay by Allan Kozinn. Oct. 14, 16-18. BAM Harvey Lichtenstein Theater.
 THE JOY OF MUSIC: LEONARD BERNSTEIN ON FILM A new set of five DVD's from Medici Arts merely scratches a surface of what is available to see as well as hear of the ever telegenic Bernstein (remember the beard?), offering complete concert performances of major works. The screenings in the Great Performers series at Lincoln Center will scratch a few others, giving glimpses of Bernstein the ''cultural ambassador,'' in visits to Soviet Russia, Germany and Japan; Bernstein the explicator nonpareil, in excerpts from Young People's Concerts; Bernstein the film composer, in a showing of Elia Kazan's ''On the Waterfront''; and Bernstein the Mahler champion, in programs built around ''Das Lied von der Erde'' and the ''Resurrection'' Symphony. Opens Oct. 15. Walter Reade Theater.
 SINFONIA NEW YORK With the New York Collegium still largely inactive, the city's latest stab at a period orchestra offers works by Haydn and Mozart, and what it says is the first modern performance of a newly discovered Mass in A (''Missa Hyemalis,'' or ''Winter Mass'') by Franz Xaver Richter, an important figure in the pre-Classical Mannheim school of composers. John Scott conducts. Oct. 16. St. Thomas Church.
 'ORGAN SPECTACULAR' We call it a season; they call it a year. The American Guild of Organists, the American Theater Organ Society, the Royal Canadian College of Organists and other organizations have proclaimed 2008-9 the International Year of the Organ. And as part of the celebration, they are spearheading this event, ''the world's largest organ concert,'' which will involve, they anticipate, more than 2,000 performers in more than 225 locations throughout North America and abroad. The repertory will include Stephen Paulus's ''Blithely Breezing Along,'' commissioned for the occasion, and music brought in through a recent competition. Look for a performer at an organ near you. Oct. 19. agohq.org.
 JORDI SAVALL The consummate Spanish violist da gamba offers two programs at Lincoln Center. See essay by Vivien Schweitzer. Oct. 20-21. Rose Theater, Kaplan Penthouse.
 'ST. JOHN PASSION' Two of New York's major choruses lost their longtime leaders this year: Richard Westenburg, the founder of Musica Sacra, and Robert Bass, the music director of the Collegiate Chorale. Happily, both choirs will carry on. The Collegiate Chorale's season opens on Dec. 8 with, as it happens, Verdi's Requiem at Carnegie Hall. Musica Sacra's opens here with a Bach masterwork conducted by the group's new music director, Kent Tritle, evidently chosen in line with the old saw that if you want to get something done, you give it to a busy person. Oct. 22. Rose Theater.
 BARD MUSIC FESTIVAL The wonder is always that there can be anything left to say and do after two concentrated weekends of this chattiest and busiest of festivals in August. But here is more of ''Prokofiev and His World,'' with music including Prokofiev's Fifth Symphony and John Alden Carpenter's Violin Concerto. As always, Leon Botstein conducts the American Symphony Orchestra. (And if that weren't enough, Mr. Botstein and company present an encore at the 92nd Street Y on Nov. 23, with a morning symposium and an afternoon concert.) Oct. 24-25. Richard B. Fisher Center, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, fishercenter.bard.edu.
 'MASS' The Bernstein protegee Marin Alsop takes on the major reclamation project of the Best of All Possible Worlds festival, conducting the Baltimore Symphony, the Morgan State University Choir and the Brooklyn Youth Chorus in a generally lowly regarded Bernstein theater work of 1971, an unwieldy testament to the composer's extended love affair with all things '60s. ''I think I can make a case that 'Mass' is one of the greatest 20th-century pieces ever written,'' Ms. Alsop told a critics' conference in Denver in June. She may never have a better soapbox. Kevin Newbury directs. Oct. 24, Carnegie Hall; Oct. 25, United Palace Theater, 4140 Broadway, Washington Heights. bernsteinfestival.org.
 ANDRAS SCHIFF This excellent and thoughtful pianist resumes his long, mostly chronological march through the 32 Beethoven sonatas (begun last season) here and completes it in the spring. An earlier cycle of the sonatas, recorded live in Zurich in 2004-6 and being released in installments on ECM New Series, will be completed in late September. Oct. 28, 30; April 17, 19. Carnegie Hall.
 'DARWIN'S MEDITATION FOR THE PEOPLE OF LINCOLN' Who knew that Darwin and Lincoln were born on the same day, Feb. 12, 1809? The innovative Haitian-American composer and violinist Daniel Bernard Roumain, for one. Mr. Roumain sets up an imaginary conversation between the historical figures, examining their legacies using their own words and those of the playwright Daniel Beaty. Mr. Beaty, acting, and Mr. Roumain, playing, are joined by the chamber orchestra SymphoNYC. Oct. 29, 31; Nov. 1. BAM Harvey Lichtenstein Theater.
 NOVEMBER
 BABBITT STRING QUARTETS It was only to be expected that Elliott Carter, as he neared the century mark, would eclipse other elder statesmen of American music. At least Milton Babbitt, a relative pup at 92, is not wholly overlooked, as the Zukofsky Quartet bravely plays all of his string quartets (Nos. 2-6, No. 1 being lost), each one a challenge. And he may well expect the spotlight to shift toward him through the next eight years. Nov. 5. Miller Theater.
 'ARJUNA'S DILEMMA' Douglas Cuomo's chamber opera is based on the Bhagavad-Gita, the sacred Hindu text, and set in a musical language that draws on both Western and Indian styles. See essay by Allan Kozinn. Nov. 5, 7-8. BAM Harvey Lichtenstein Theater. 
 'LA DAMNATION DE FAUST' Berlioz's categories were his own, and this ''legende dramatique'' is generally performed in concert, as Simon Rattle and the Philadelphia Orchestra will present it at Carnegie Hall on May 1. But its dramatic qualities have suggested staging possibilities to some directors, and a few have made quasi-operatic versions work. Robert Lepage, who has already signed on as the director of the Met's next ''Ring'' cycle, beginning in the 2010-11 season, makes his company debut in a production that promises technological wizardry as well as stellar performers: Marcello Giordani as Faust, Susan Graham as Marguerite and John Relyea as Mephistopheles, with James Levine conducting. Opens Nov. 7. Metropolitan Opera House. 'LULU' This production of Berg's unfinished masterpiece will be significant chiefly as an American coming-out for the soprano Marlis Petersen in the title role; she has established a considerable reputation as a stage animal in Europe but made only minor appearances in the United States. Wolfgang Schone, her foils as Dr. Schon and Jack the Ripper, is better known here. Paul Curran directs, and Andrew Davis conducts. Opens Nov. 7. Lyric Opera of Chicago, Civic Opera House, (312) 332-2244, lyricopera.org.
 TETZLAFF QUARTET We've known all along about Christian Tetzlaff, the brilliant violinist who will be heard this season with James Levine and the Met Orchestra (Oct. 5) and in recital with Leif Ove Andsnes (Feb. 2) at Carnegie Hall, and with Esa-Pekka Salonen and the New York Philharmonic (May 13-14, 16). But it turns out (turned out, actually; the quartet has been widely active in Europe since 1996) that he also has a gifted sister, Tanja Tetzlaff, a cellist, and gifted violinist and violist friends, and they will be heard here in a fascinating program of Mozart, Sibelius and Berg. Nov. 8. Zankel Hall.
 BANG ON A CAN ALL STARS The crack new-music ensemble offers the premiere of Terry Riley's ''Autodreamographical Tales.'' See essay by Allan Kozinn. Nov. 8. Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (800) 838-3006, lepoissinrouge.com.. 
 RUSSIAN DREAMS: THE MUSIC OF SERGEI PROKOFIEV The 55th anniversary of his death this year? To observe that would be a stretch even in a business obsessed with anniversaries. In fact it is a Prokofiev season simply because Lincoln Center says it is, and has the wherewithal to do a bang-up job of it in its Great Performers series. As he did with Shostakovich in 2006, Valery Gergiev throws both of his orchestras -- now the London Symphony along with the Kirov -- into the fray. The Kirov Orchestra and Chorus of St. Petersburg present an array of Prokofiev works for stage or film: ballet music, including the complete ''Romeo and Juliet''; the comic opera ''The Love for Three Oranges,'' performed in concert; music for the Eisenstein films ''Alexander Nevsky'' and ''Ivan the Terrible.'' Mr. Gergiev returns with the London Symphony in the spring to mop up the symphonies and several concertos, with the pianists Vladimir Feltsman and Alexei Volodin and the violinist Vadim Repin. Nov. 9-10, 16-17; March 23-24, 29-30. Avery Fisher Hall.
 ALAN GILBERT So who, amid the Bernstein festivities, stands to inherit the great maestro's mantle? The New York Philharmonic is banking on the 41-year-old American Alan Gilbert, who becomes its music director next fall. Here Mr. Gilbert conducts the orchestra on the 65th anniversary of Bernstein's debut with it -- also at Carnegie Hall, at 25 -- in a Bernstein program: the ''Serenade (After Plato's 'Symposium')'' and suites from ''On the Waterfront'' and ''West Side Story.'' Nov. 14. Carnegie Hall.
 GARRICK OHLSSON This burly pianist with the soul of a poet led listeners through the works of Beethoven and Chopin like a Pied Piper. Can he do the same with the more rarefied strains of Scriabin, and will listeners be as susceptible? Here is a program of nothing but. Nov. 15. 92nd Street Y.
 GUSTAVO DUDAMEL The Los Angeles Philharmonic, among others, is banking on the 27-year-old Venezuelan Gustavo Dudamel to inherit the Bernstein magic when he takes over as its music director next fall. Here, as part of the Best of All Possible Worlds festival, Mr. Dudamel conducts the Israel Philharmonic in Bernstein's ''Halil'' and ''Jubilee Games,'' both written for the orchestra, and Tchaikovsky's Fourth Symphony. In a second concert not a part of the festival, Mr. Dudamel will do double duty as violinist, joining the orchestra in Bach's Concerto for Two Violins (BWV 1042), with Pinchas Zukerman and Nitzan Bartana as soloists. Nov. 16-17. Carnegie Hall.
 ROMERBAD MUSIKTAGE If you can't get to Badenweiler, Germany, anytime soon, you can at least get a sense of its musical attractions, thanks to the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. Klaus Lauer, the proprietor of the Hotel Romerbad in Badenweiler, has devised an unusual yet remarkably successful tourist draw: a music festival leaning heavily toward the contemporary. For the society's minifestival ''Night Fantasies,'' Mr. Lauer has programmed four concerts to give listeners an idea of the fare served up during the Romerbad Music Days. The title comes from Elliott Carter's ''Night Fantasies'' for piano. There are also works by Berg, Messiaen, Ligeti, George Crumb and other modern masters, leavened by the occasional Chopin or Schumann, Ravel or Debussy. Nov. 20-23. New York Society for Ethical Culture, Central Park West at 64th Street, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org.
 DRESDEN STAATSKAPELLE When the Italian maestro Fabio Luisi was named the future principal conductor of this venerable orchestra in 2004, not everyone was thrilled. The most unthrilled, apparently, was the incumbent, Bernard Haitink, who immediately vacated the premises after only two years on the job. But Mr. Luisi has consistently fared better with critics, with Germanic repertory evidently among his strengths, and on his first visit to New York with the orchestra, curiosity will run high. He will play to that strength (also the orchestra's, perhaps needless to say) with a program of Beethoven and Brahms, and another of Strauss, including ''Ein Heldenleben.'' Nov. 21, 23. Avery Fisher Hall.
 MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE Intimate setting notwithstanding, piano duos don't come any more high-powered than James Levine and Daniel Barenboim in terms of sheer virtuosity, let alone their institutional sway in the music world. And for much of the program they will be mere accompanists for a vocal quartet in Brahms's ''Liebeslieder Waltzes'' and ''New Liebeslieder Waltzes,'' though they will also play Schubert's ''Grand Duo'' in C. Nov. 23. Weill Recital Hall.
 'TRISTAN UND ISOLDE' Can the Met possibly inject more drama into a run of six performances than it did last season with the roundelay of ailments and cancellations between Ben Heppner and Deborah Voigt in the title roles? This time the big name is in the pit, as Daniel Barenboim, a Wagnerian of broad experience, makes his Met debut. Peter Seiffert and Katarina Dalayman take the title roles, and the estimable Rene Pape sings King Marke. Opens Nov. 28. Metropolitan Opera House.
 'MESSIAEN 100' The six-CD set of Messiaen reissues released by the French label Naive this summer in honor of the composer's centenary seemed imposing at the time. But here comes Bigfoot, Deutsche Grammophon, with a 32-CD set of the complete Messiaen. Here, too, most of the recordings are reissues, but there are also new recordings of ''Trois Petites Liturgies'' and ''Couleurs de la Cite Celeste.'' The performers include renowned Messiaen champions like the conductors Pierre Boulez, Kent Nagano and Myung-Whun Chung and the organist Olivier Latry. For Messiaen fans who do not already have many of these recordings, the set will be a bargain at $180. November. 
 LORRAINE HUNT LIEBERSON ''Dare we hope for more?,'' I greedily asked in a recent review of the second in a series of posthumous CD releases of archival recordings featuring this magnificent mezzo-soprano. No problem says a spokeswoman for the Wigmore Hall Live label, which issued the first such release, a recital in the venerable London auditorium from 1998. The next release documents a 1999 recital with the pianist Julius Drake and includes songs by Brahms and Schumann. Which will raise the inevitable question, .... November.
 DECEMBER
 'ELEKTRA' Lorin Maazel's big opera in concert with the New York Philharmonic last season, Puccini's ''Tosca,'' was not the sort of thing to test and stretch a virtuoso orchestra. This one, like most big Strauss operas, is, and it will be up to Deborah Polaski, in the title role, to surmount the instrumental ruckus. Dec. 4, 6, 9, 13. Avery Fisher Hall.
 VOX CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR George Steel, formerly the director of the Miller Theater and by now undoubtedly ensconced at the Dallas Opera, comes ''home'' for the holidays, conducting the excellent Vox Vocal Ensemble, which he founded in 1992. For the occasion he has unearthed a wealth of unhackneyed if not wholly unfamiliar historic European repertory. Dec. 4. Church of St. Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212) 854-7799, millertheatre.com.
 TILL FELLNER As Andras Schiff winds down his two-season survey of the 32 Beethoven piano sonatas at Carnegie Hall, Mr. Fellner, an acclaimed Austrian pianist of the next generation, begins a three-year trek through the works at the Met Museum. But unlike Mr. Schiff's, his ordering is not remotely chronological, so the popular, nicknamed sonatas come sprinkled throughout: the ''Tempest'' in the first program, the ''Appassionata'' in the second, the ''Hammerklavier'' in the third. Dec. 5; March 6; May 8. Metropolitan Museum.
 'THAIS' To say that this Massenet opera -- the ''Meditation'' apart -- is not universally loved is an understatement. Perhaps the Met's designated diva of the season, Renee Fleming, can bring it respect in a new production by John Cox imported from the Lyric Opera of Chicago. Thomas Hampson joins Ms. Fleming as the monk Athanael, as he did in Chicago and on a Decca recording. Jesus Lopez-Cobos conducts. Opens Dec. 8. Metropolitan Opera House.
 GILBERT KAPLAN Some laughed when Mr. Kaplan, the former founding editor and publisher of the financial journal Institutional Investor, first took the podium to conduct Mahler's mighty ''Resurrection'' Symphony, with the American Symphony in 1982. Nobody is laughing anymore, now that he has conducted it around the world and recorded it with both the London Symphony and the Vienna Philharmonic. He makes his debut with the New York Philharmonic in -- what else? -- the ''Resurrection'' Symphony, on the 100th anniversary of its first performance in America, with Mahler conducting. Dec. 8. Avery Fisher Hall.
 'MESSIAH' As always, options to hear Handel's oratorio written for the Lenten season will be many at Christmastime. But this perennial by the St. Thomas Choir of Men and Boys and Concert Royal, conducted by John Scott, remains as reliable as any and better than most. Dec. 9, 11. St. Thomas Church.
 ELLIOTT CARTER Here, finally, is the actual 100th birthday of the dean of American composers and the climax of celebrations that have been building lo these many months. James Levine will conduct the Boston Symphony in the New York premiere of Mr. Carter's ''Interventions,'' with Daniel Barenboim as piano soloist. See essay by Anthony Tommasini. Dec. 11. Carnegie Hall.
 DETROIT SYMPHONY Leonard Slatkin drew raves as music director of the St. Louis Symphony from 1979 to 1996 and decidedly mixed reviews at the National Symphony in Washington from 1996 to 2008. Maybe a return to the Midwest will be just what the career doctor ordered. By all reports, Mr. Slatkin's honeymoon with the players in Detroit is well under way. Here he belatedly heralds his tenure with portent (Verdi's ''Forza del Destino'' Overture) and bombast (Orff's ''Carmina Burana''). Then he and the orchestra can settle into the workaday realities of married life, and may it be fruitful. Dec. 11-14. Max M. Fisher Music Center, Detroit, (313) 576-5111, detroitsymphony.com.
 DANIEL BARENBOIM The Met stage is no great place for a piano recital, but -- partly for that reason -- it certainly does convey a sense of event. Vladimir Horowitz called it home in his late years, in the 1980s, and no pianist has played a recital there since. But Mr. Barenboim, his Met conducting debut finally behind him, will consolidate his conquest of the house, taking the big stage to play a program of Liszt, appropriately including paraphrases of Verdi operas: ''Il Trovatore,'' ''Aida'' and ''Rigoletto.'' Dec. 14. Metropolitan Opera House.
 'PLAY OF DANIEL' The Cloisters was the setting that helped make the 12th-century ''Play of Daniel'' famous, when Noah Greenberg and the New York Pro Musica Antiqua revived it there in 1958. That production evolved over decades into ''Daniel and the Lions'' and traveled widely in the hands of Pro Musica's successor, the Ensemble for Early Music (now Early Music New York). The Cloisters is mounting a new production to celebrate the 50th anniversary of this seminal event in the modern early-music movement. The musical edition is by Mary Anne Ballard, a member of the Baltimore Consort, who will oversee the instrumental performance. Patrick Allen, the choirmaster at Grace Church in the East Village, will prepare the vocal performance, using primarily the church's choristers. Dec. 20-21. Cloisters, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 650-2290, metmuseum.org.
 'LA RONDINE' The Metropolitan Opera, which fired the soprano Angela Gheorghiu and her husband, the tenor Roberto Alagna, in the Joseph Volpe era, seems giddy with excitement over their renaissance under Peter Gelb. It presented the ''real-life duo,'' as its Web site quaintly calls them, at Prospect Park in Brooklyn for its only parks concert this summer, and here it mounts a new production of a Puccini semi-staple by Nicolas Joel and serves it up in a bubbly though ultimately fateful (it is Puccini, after all) toast to the new year. Opens Dec. 31. Metropolitan Opera House.
 JANUARY
 INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER ORCHESTRA FESTIVAL For anyone not defeated by the very notion of Minnesota in winter, this event promises to generate plenty of warmth. The St. Paul Chamber Orchestra celebrates its 50th-anniversary season in grand and innovative fashion, playing host to a four-week event in which it joins forces with the Chamber Orchestra of Europe and the London Sinfonietta, both modern-instrument orchestras, and the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment of London and Philharmonia Baroque of San Francisco, both period bands. In weekly residencies, each visiting group will present a concert and take part in at least one more, working in combination or alternation with the St. Paul host. Three orchestras are represented on Jan. 16 and 17, as the London Sinfonietta and members of the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment join St. Paul in Heiner Goebbels's ''Songs of Wars I Have Seen.'' Jan. 8-30. Ordway Center and other sites, St. Paul, (651) 291-1144. thespco.org/festival.
 BRADLEY BROOKSHIRE Good, even competent, solo harpsichord playing is a scarce commodity in New York these days. Mr. Brookshire is much more than good, as he has shown repeatedly in recitals of Bach. Here, in the invaluable Music Before 1800 series, he adds Bach's sons Wilhelm Friedemann and Carl Philip Emanuel to the equation. And happily, there are more sons where those came from. Jan. 11. Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266, mb1800.org.
 'ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA' Commissioned for the opening of the new Metropolitan Opera House in 1966, Samuel Barber's most ambitious work had no great success in its grandiose original production by Franco Zeffirelli, and even scaled down, it has yet to join the mainstream repertory. But it is the only full work being offered this season by the New York City Opera, with its house and its new era under construction, and only in a concert version. Lauren Flanigan and Teddy Tahu Rhodes sing the title roles, and George Manahan conducts. Jan. 15-16. Carnegie Hall.
 VERDI'S REQUIEM These concerts, with Riccardo Muti conducting the Chicago Symphony in a grandly dramatic and quintessentially Italian work, loomed large even before the announcement in May that Mr. Muti would become the orchestra's music director in 2010. Now they look momentous, pointing toward what Mr. Muti has already declared will be his last music directorship. Jan. 15-17. Symphony Center, Chicago, (312) 294-3000, cso.org. MARILYN HORNE FOUNDATION The mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato is one of many prominent singers in a program ''Celebrating Marilyn Horne!'' See essay by Steve Smith. Jan. 18. Carnegie Hall. 
 RICCARDO MUTI Will he show up? Good relations with the musicians he conducts have always been paramount to Mr. Muti, and he has certainly had those with the New York Philharmonic in recent years. But to judge from the public comments of some players, those relations may be strained now that Mr. Muti has become music director in Chicago, having passed up opportunities to do so in New York, and Zarin Mehta, the Philharmonic's president, has already indicated that Mr. Muti will not be welcome back as a guest once he takes over the Chicago Symphony in 2010. He is scheduled for four weeks of concerts, beginning here with works of Haydn and Brahms's delightful, somewhat Haydnesque First Serenade. Jan. 22, 24, 27. Avery Fisher Hall.
 LES TALENS LYRIQUES The mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato joins the group, led by Christophe Rousset, in a Handel program more or less replicating the one on their CD ''Furore,'' to be released around the same time by EMI Classics. See essay by Steve Smith. Jan. 23. Carnegie Hall.
 FOCUS! FESTIVAL Is there contemporary music west of Elliott Carter, who was the subject of the Juilliard School's Focus Festival in 2008 and has been the apple in the eye of contemporary-music festivals ever since? Juilliard tries to overcome the New Yorker's eye-view of the rest of the world with ''California: A Century of New Music,'' tracing California dreamin' in the music of Henry Cowell, John Cage, Lou Harrison, Terry Riley, John Adams and others. Jan. 23, 26-30. Peter J. Sharp Theater, Paul Hall, Juilliard School.
 MET ORCHESTRA The busy mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato is a soloist in a program conducted by James Levine, which also includes the premiere of ''Time Regained,'' a fantasy for piano and orchestra by Charles Wuorinen, with Peter Serkin as soloist. See essay by Steve Smith. Jan. 25. Carnegie Hall.
 'SIMON BOCCANEGRA' Maybe at a concert performance you don't have to spend so much energy trying to keep this most convoluted of Verdi plots straight. Certainly, the musical values should be squarely in place, with James Levine conducting the Boston Symphony, the Tanglewood Festival Chorus and a cast including Barbara Frittoli, Marcello Giordani, Jose van Dam and James Morris. Jan. 29, 31; Feb. 3. Symphony Hall, Boston, (617) 266-1200 or (888) 266-1200, bso.org.
 'THE DEATH OF KLINGHOFFER' He hasn't written that many of them, but it is evidently boom time for John Adams's operas, with ''A Flowering Tree'' due out on CD from Nonesuch in September, ''Doctor Atomic'' staged at the Met in October and this concert version of ''The Death of Klinghoffer'' by the Juilliard Opera Center to round out the school's Focus Festival. Mr. Adams conducts. Jan. 31. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Juilliard School.
 FEBRUARY
 KURT MASUR Mr. Masur, as Kapellmeister of the Gewandhaus Orchestra in Leipzig for 26 years, stood in a direct if long line from Mendelssohn, and it is a legacy he has always taken seriously. While still at the Gewandhaus a dozen years ago, he spearheaded the project of reconstructing the dilapidated Mendelssohn house in Leipzig and turning it into the museum it is today. He has also honored Mendelssohn in performance, and from the beginning to the end of his tenure as music director of the New York Philharmonic, his Mendelssohn interpretations were extraordinary. So who better to help the Philharmonic celebrate the Mendelssohn bicentenary (and only one day late)? He conducts the Violin Concerto, with Anne-Sophie Mutter as soloist, the ''Ruy Blas'' Overture and the riveting cantata ''Die Erste Walpurgisnacht.'' Feb. 4-7. Avery Fisher Hall.
 CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA For those still trying to take the measure of Franz Welser-Most in his seventh season as music director of this magisterial ensemble (and they seem to be legion), he offers a richly international body of evidence. The big statements are Strauss's ''Alpine Symphony,'' Shostakovich's ''Leningrad'' Symphony and Janacek's ''Glagolitic Mass.'' Pierre-Laurent Aimard is the soloist in a new work for piano and orchestra (as yet unnamed) by George Benjamin, and Measha Brueggergosman is the soprano in Wagner's ''Wesendonck Lieder'' and in the Mass. Works by Mozart, Debussy and Ligeti broaden the range still further. Well, no need to rush to judgment; Mr. Welser-Most's tenure now runs to 2018. Feb. 4, 6-7. Carnegie Hall.
 SARA LAIMON Among other fascinating juxtapositions, Symphony Space's series Best Music of 1939 turns up two great piano works, Copland's Sonata and Ives's ''Concord'' Sonata. Ms. Laimon's Mode recording of the Copland has met with high praise. Feb. 5. Symphony Space. 
 'CZECH COUNTERPOINTS' It may seem small-bore after the Berlin Philharmonic's saturation of the city last season under the auspices of Carnegie Hall, but the Cleveland Orchestra has found at least a modest way to add value to its annual visit to New York (which this year includes Janacek's ''Glagolitic Mass''). Orchestra members will play chamber works by Janacek (''Mladi,'' Concertino), and actors will read from writings of Milan Kundera. Feb. 5. 92nd Street Y.
 'ADRIANA LECOUVREUR' A round robin of casting changes at the Met even before the season starts has taken Placido Domingo off the podium and put him on stage in Cilea's opera: in my experience, a good move on both counts. Replacing Marcelo Alvarez -- who has moved into the ''Trovatore'' cast to replace ... well, who cares? -- Mr. Domingo sings Maurizio, the role in which he made his Met debut 40 years ago, also in a casting change. Marco Armiliato conducts, undoubtedly bringing at least a marginal improvement there as well. Opens Feb. 6. Metropolitan Opera House.
 COLLEGIUM-CLARION WEEK The New York Collegium, which for several years held promise as the standard-setting period orchestra in the city, evidently continues to struggle. For the second season, its activities appear to be confined to a single week of master classes, concerts and lectures in collaboration with the Clarion Music Society, this time under the title ''Italians Abroad: Scarlatti, Vivaldi, Geminiani and Caldara.'' Feb 18-26. St. Michael's Church, Amsterdam Avenue at 99th Street, (212) 580-5700, clarionsociety.com.AMERICAN SYMPHONY We were saying, about a sudden spate of modernist opera in New York? Far be it from Leon Botstein to be left out of a brainy trend like that. Mr. Botstein conducts concert performances of two operas by Luigi Dallapiccola, ''Volo di Notte'' (''Night Flight'') and ''Il Prigioniero'' (''The Prisoner''), in a program called ''Persecution and Hope: Masterworks of Conscience.'' Feb. 20. Avery Fisher Hall.
 CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR This probing and masterly pianist already had much to say about Bach's ''Goldberg'' Variations at 23, when he played them as an unusual choice of repertory at the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth in 1993. Now he brings a wealth of experience to bear on the keen intuition of his youth, and expectations will run high when he plays them again here. Feb. 20. Miller Theater.
 'DAS RHEINGOLD,' 'DIE WALKURE' Translated titles at the opera have made the world safe not only for composers working in Slavic or other less familiar tongues but also for endlessly wordy composers working in more familiar languages, like Wagner. It is hard to imagine that companies like the Washington National Opera, which is assembling its first ''Ring'' cycle, or the Los Angeles Opera, which here embarks on its first, would do so without titles. It doesn't hurt, of course, that each company is directed by Placido Domingo, who will sing Siegmund in ''Walkure'' at the drop of a hat. Other singers include Vitalij Kowaljow, Michelle DeYoung, Anja Kampe and Linda Watson. Achim Freyer directs, and James Conlon conducts. Opens Feb. 21 (''Rheingold''), April 4 (''Walkure''). Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, Los Angeles, (213) 972-8001, losangelesopera.com.
 ALICE TULLY HALL David Robertson and the Juilliard Orchestra, who gave the last concert in Alice Tully Hall before it closed for renovations in April 2007, are among the first to welcome it back in a program called ''First Look.'' First Listen, more to the point. The exterior will certainly be striking visually, and perhaps the interior, too, with lighter-colored wood on the walls. But it is the acoustical quality of that wood, said to be more reverberation-friendly, that may hold the key to how this perennially driest of halls will sound. And the varied program -- with other performers including Jordi Savall and his Spanish early-music family (literally and figuratively), the pianist Leon Fleisher, the Emerson String Quartet and artists of the home team, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center -- should quickly tell some tales. Feb. 22.
 'COMING HOME' The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, in its first full program at its reconstructed home, opens with the first work heard in the hall when it was new, in 1969: Bach's C major Trio Sonata (BWV 1037). Society members past and present, including the founding director, Charles Wadsworth, will play a wildly varied program featuring two works commissioned for the occasion, from William Bolcom and George Tsontakis. Feb. 24. Alice Tully Hall.
 VIENNA PHILHARMONIC On its annual visit to New York, the orchestra typically plays three high-protein concerts in a weekend, and that seemed to be what was shaping up here, with Zubin Mehta conducting vintage Philharmonic repertory including Schubert's Ninth Symphony, Bruckner's Ninth, Strauss's ''Heldenleben'' and Schoenberg's ''Verklarte Nacht.'' But a fourth concert for the previous Wednesday was announced in August, with Lang Lang joining Mr. Mehta and the orchestra in a benefit performance for the National Academy Foundation, in which educators and business leaders combine to help prepare some 50,000 high school students for professional careers. Mr. Lang plays Chopin's Second Piano Concerto. Feb. 25, 27-28; March 1. Carnegie Hall.
 'VITA NUOVA' Vladimir Jurowski conducts the London Philharmonic in a concert performance of Vladimir Martynov's 1993 opera to open Lincoln Center's series New Music for a New Hall. See essay by Anthony Tommasini. Feb. 28. Alice Tully Hall.
 MARCH
 MASS IN B MINOR In his Bach performances with the Collegium Vocale Gent, Philippe Herreweghe combines a thorough knowledge of period practice and style with an undoctrinaire approach to performance. The results are typically fresh and eloquent. March 1. Alice Tully Hall.
 'LA SONNAMBULA' Some took serious exception to mixed signals in Mary Zimmerman's production of Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' at the Met last season, hit though the Met has declared it. Presumably, the star of the show, the soprano Natalie Dessay, was not among them, for she takes the lead again in Ms. Zimmerman's new present-day setting of this Bellini staple. Juan Diego Florez, Ms. Dessay's Met partner in Donizetti's ''Fille du Regiment,'' rejoins her, and Evelino Pido conducts. Opens March 2. Metropolitan Opera House.
 DEUTSCHE KAMMERPHILHARMONIE BREMEN The acoustics of the Rose Theater at Jazz at Lincoln Center have never sounded better to my ears than when Paavo Jarvi conducted this orchestra in gritty and vital performances of Beethoven's Seventh Symphony and other Beethoven there a year ago. One hopes that the acoustics of the renovated Alice Tully Hall won't need a lot of flattering, but these performers are sure to give them at least a fair test in two programs of Beethoven, evening (Symphonies Nos. 3 and 8) and late night (Symphonies Nos. 1 and 7). March 2. Alice Tully Hall.
 AROUND PROKOFIEV If Lincoln Center has declared it a Prokofiev season, who is the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center to refrain? The society offers its own two-week festival, a series of well-stuffed programs trying to recapture the spirit of the Evenings of Contemporary Music at the St. Petersburg Conservatory, in which Prokofiev the student took an active part. March 3-19. Alice Tully Hall.
 HONOR! A CELEBRATION OF THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN CULTURAL LEGACY This festival, curated by the soprano Jessye Norman, feels a little free-form alongside Carnegie's more staid classical events. For this opening night, Carnegie's Web site promises ''the brightest lights in blues, rhythm and blues, soul and jazz, as well as today's daring innovators.'' O.K., surprise us. Sounds great so far. March 4. Carnegie Hall.
 SACRED ELLINGTON Duke Ellington was surely one of the great musical entertainers of the 20th century, but he often set out to do more than entertain. Some, in fact, consider him the great American composer. This concert, part of Jessye Norman's Honor! festival based at Carnegie Hall, presents excerpts from Ellington's ''Three Sacred Concerts'' and features Ms. Norman herself. March 7. Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org/honor.
 CHICAGO SYMPHONY For the orchestra's two visits to New York this season, its caretaker maestros, Pierre Boulez and Bernard Haitink, divide the repertory between eras. Here Mr. Boulez conducts modern masterpieces including Janacek's Sinfonietta, Stravinsky's ''Pulcinella,'' Ives's ''Three Places in New England'' and Varese's ''Ameriques.'' Mr. Haitink brings the orchestra back in the spring with varieties of Romanticism: Schubert's Ninth Symphony, Bruckner's Eighth and Mahler's Ruckert Lieder. March 9-10; May 2-3. Carnegie Hall.
 SARAH CAHILL The respected new-music pianist performs ''Notes on the War: The Piano Protests,'' a program for which she commissioned works from Terry Riley, Frederic Rzewski, Meredith Monk, Yoko Ono and others. See essay by Allan Kozinn. March 12. Merkin Concert Hall.
 BAVARIAN RADIO SYMPHONY It is a lucky maestro who has two great orchestras at his command. Last season Mariss Jansons brought the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam to Carnegie Hall. Now comes the turn of the Munich-based Bavarian Radio Symphony. Germanic repertory (Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms, Jorg Widmann) is balanced by Slavic (Tchaikovsky, Prokofiev, Shchedrin). Emanuel Ax is the soloist in Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 25, Julia Fischer in Prokofiev's Violin Concerto No. 1. March 13-15. Carnegie Hall.
 TAKACS QUARTET Though now based at the University of Colorado at Boulder, this group was founded in Budapest in 1975 and thus came by its specialty in the Bartok string quartets naturally (no matter that only two Hungarians remain). Here it plays all six Bartok works over three programs, each also including an early Beethoven quartet. March 14, 18, 21. Alice Tully Hall.
 METROPOLITAN OPERA 125TH ANNIVERSARY GALA Perhaps trying to achieve economies of scale, the Met is celebrating not only its own anniversary but also the 40th anniversary of Placido Domingo's debut at the house. The evening will consist of re-creations of scenes representing notable productions in the Met's history, including ''Faust,'' from the company's opening night, in 1883; ''Parsifal,'' from 1903, a time when performances outside Bayreuth were not sanctioned; ''La Fanciulla del West,'' from its world premiere in 1910; and ''Die Zauberflote,'' in the Marc Chagall designs, from 1967. March 15. Metropolitan Opera House.
 PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA The Chicago Symphony is undoubtedly singing the praises of temporization, having called on old conducting friends, Pierre Boulez and Bernard Haitink, to tide it over until it could find a big, younger fish that it wanted as music director, Riccardo Muti. The Philadelphia Orchestra is trying something similar, with a longtime collaborator, Charles Dutoit, serving as chief conductor and artistic adviser until it can find a suitable music director. (Perhaps only God could meet its expectations, a Philadelphia critic recently suggested.) Mr. Dutoit brings the orchestra to New York for the second time this season with a program in the Honor! festival -- Milhaud's delicious ''Creation du Monde''; Mahler's ''Lieder Eines Fahrenden Gesellen,'' sung by the bass-baritone Eric Owens; and Dvorak's ''New World'' Symphony -- but Mr. Dutoit's European tour with the orchestra next summer has already been canceled for lack of adequate sponsorship. It may be a bumpy ride for a conductor with a title but without the clout of the title. March 17. Carnegie Hall. LES ARTS FLORISSANTS Coming to the aid of the New York early-music scene none too soon, the Buffalo-born, Paris-entrenched William Christie takes his elegant French ensemble to the Juilliard School for its second weeklong residency, building on its educational efforts last spring, now with a focus on instrumental and vocal music of Handel. All this by way of buildup to Juilliard's installation of a master's program in historical performance, with Mr. Christie deeply involved, later next year. March 23-27. Juilliard School.
 'LE NOZZE DI FIGARO' The lengthy extension of Franz Welser-Most's contract as music director (to 2018) was not the only surprise the Cleveland Orchestra sprang in June. It also announced a return of fully staged opera to Severance Hall for the first time since the 1970s, starting with the three Mozart-da Ponte operas in productions from the Zurich Opera. (''Cosi Fan Tutte'' and ''Don Giovanni'' follow in 2010 and 2011.) In the orchestra's first performance of ''Le Nozze di Figaro,'' Mr. Welser-Most conducts a cast including Ruben Drole, Martina Jankova, Michael Volle and Malin Hartelius. March 23, 25, 27, 29. Severance Hall, Cleveland, (216) 231-1111 or (800) 686-1141, clevelandorch.com.'DER RING DES NIBELUNGEN' Otto Schenk's Met production of the Wagner epic, introduced in installments beginning in 1986, struck some as blessedly conservative in its naturalism, others as reactionary in its literalism. Here, in three cycles, is its last outing, conducted by James Levine with singers including Christine Brewer, Waltraud Meier, Placido Domingo, Christian Franz, James Morris and Rene Pape. Opens March 28. Metropolitan Opera House.
 APRIL
 'ST. MATTHEW PASSION' Having opened the Musica Sacra season with the ''St. John Passion'' and left the Mass in B minor to others, Kent Tritle closes out the great Bach choral trilogy with choirs of the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola in the church's invaluable series Sacred Music in a Sacred Space. (And for any who can't make it, John Scott and the St. Thomas Choir of Men and Boys perform the ''St. Matthew'' two days later at St. Thomas Church.) April 1. Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, (212) 288-2520, smssconcerts.org. 
 ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY Beyond HK Gruber's ''Frankenstein!!,'' David Robertson's first program was still unformed at press time. (What would you put up against it?) The second has a solidly Finnish bent, with the soprano Karita Mattila and the cellist Anssi Karttunen as soloists in the New York premiere of Kaija Saariaho's ''Mirage''; Ms. Mattila performing songs by Sibelius and Mr. Robertson conducting Sibelius's mighty Fifth Symphony. April 3-4. Carnegie Hall.
 KRYSTIAN ZIMERMAN There are few pianists whose recitals you're willing to commit to before you know the program. Here is one. April 6. Carnegie Hall.
 ESA-PEKKA SALONEN All of 50, Mr. Salonen must feel like a geezer as he vacates the podium at the Los Angeles Philharmonic to be replaced by the precocious Gustavo Dudamel. But Mr. Salonen was young himself when he took over in 1992, and he grew into the position beautifully, taking the orchestra with him to new heights. In particular, he made it an ever better vehicle for Stravinsky, so it is fitting that his farewell program with the orchestra consists of Stravinsky's ''Oedipus Rex'' and ''Symphony of Psalms.'' April 16-18. Walt Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles, (323) 850-2000, laphil.org.
 ZEHETMAIR QUARTET Lest you fear that major attention to Elliott Carter will trail off immediately after his 100th birthday, the 92nd Street Y presents ''Elliott Carter & Heinz Holliger: A Musical Friendship.'' As the brochure points out, the oboist Mr. Holliger, 70, and Mr. Carter have been writing music for each other for 50 years. Here, in the hands of Mr. Holliger and an excellent string quartet, are works by both composers and by Mozart, Beethoven and Bruckner. April 21-22. 92nd Street Y. 'IN C' To celebrate the 45th anniversary of this ground-breaking work of proto-Minimalism by Terry Riley (because any old anniversary will do), the Kronos Quartet and some two dozen collaborators certify its status on a grand stage. See essay by Allan Kozinn. April 24. Carnegie Hall.
 ANDRE PREVIN Mr. Previn will be widely celebrating his 80th birthday this season, with notable performances including the premiere of his ''Brief Encounter'' at the Houston Grand Opera on May 1. Here he conducts the Orchestra of St. Luke's, a frequent collaborator, in his own works. His former wife Anne-Sophie Mutter will play the Violin Concerto, which was written for her, and will join the violist Yuri Bashmet in the premiere of the Concerto for Violin, Viola and Orchestra. Renee Fleming will sing ''The Giraffes Go to Hamburg'' and arias from ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' April 26. Carnegie Hall. 
 PHILHARMONIA BAROQUE ORCHESTRA The venerable period-instrument band from San Francisco, which celebrated Handel's 320th birthday with a lot of Handel at Zankel Hall in 2005, commemorates the 250th anniversary of his death in more subdued fashion, merely offering a few duets. The big work here, with the soprano Carolyn Sampson and the countertenor Robin Blaze, and Nicholas McGegan conducting, is Pergolesi's soaring Stabat Mater. April 30. Zankel Hall.
 MAY
 HARLEM QUARTET This string quartet is a product of the valued Sphinx Organization -- which was founded to help find avenues for black and Latino string players into major orchestras, where they are shamefully underrepresented -- and it also plays in the Sphinx showcase concert at Carnegie Hall on Oct. 21. Here it offers music of Billy Strayhorn and Wynton Marsalis, and is joined by Carter Brey, the superb principal cellist of the New York Philharmonic, in Schubert's dazzling C major Quintet. May 1. Symphony Space. 
 CROSSCURRENTS Denizens of the Kennedy Center -- the National Symphony Orchestra, the Fortas Chamber Music Concerts and the Millennium Stage -- fill its various stages with a teeming festival of contemporary music, mainly British and American, curated by the composer and conductor Oliver Knussen and the pianist Joseph Kalichstein. (How Boccherini and Dvorak got in is anyone's guess.) Entire programs are devoted to music of Lera Auerbach, Bruce Adolphe and Joan Tower, and performing groups, in addition to orchestra members, include the Nash Ensemble, So Percussion, Ethel, the Muir Quartet and the Miami String Quartet. May 1-10. Kennedy Center, Washington, (202) 467-4600 or (800) 444-1324, nationalsymphony.org.
 NEEME JARVI The big-name maestro seems to have had relatively little impact in his four seasons as music director of the New Jersey Symphony. Here, at any rate, is his final subscription program with the orchestra, consisting of Beethoven's ''Emperor'' Piano Concerto, with Denis Matsuev as soloist, and Bruckner's Seventh Symphony. It should tell much about where the orchestra now stands artistically. May 1, Richardson Auditorium, Princeton; May 2, 5, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, Newark; May 3, State Theater, New Brunswick; (800) 255-3476, njsymphony.org.
 MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA Those who maintain that the term Big Five no longer has meaning for American orchestras (and they will protest this mention as they do every other) should tell it to Carnegie Hall, which has all five on tap for multiple performances this season but only three other American orchestras. Minnesota's presence on that short list, if only for one concert, speaks well for what Osmo Vanska has accomplished as music director since 2003. He plies his current specialty, Beethoven (Symphony No. 7), and his perennial one, Sibelius (Violin Concerto, with Leonidas Kavakos, and ''The Wood Nymph''). As for the other non-Fives, they will have a better shot starting in May 2011, with the first outing of Spring for Music, a concert series at Carnegie produced by the recently unveiled Festival of North American Orchestras. May 4. Carnegie Hall.
 'BIRDS OF A FEATHER: MESSIAEN AND HIS LEGACY' It is fine tribute to a composer to commemorate a major anniversary by performing his or her music. It is at least as fine tribute to trace the influences, as the pianist Gilbert Kalish, the Argento Chamber Ensemble and the Stony Brook Contemporary Chamber Players do here for the Messiaen centenary, adding to his ''Oiseaux Exotiques'' works by Gerard Grisey, Tristan Murail, Allain Gaussin and Pierre Boulez. May 5. Merkin Concert Hall. 
 STAATSKAPELLE BERLIN My previous encounter with the Mahler symphonies in almost daily performances, in Amsterdam in 1995, involved three towering orchestras: the Royal Concertgebouw, the Vienna Philharmonic and the Berlin Philharmonic. Here, one hard-working band will run the gamut of symphonies along with ''Das Lied von der Erde'' and various song cycles in more or less chronological order, conducted by Daniel Barenboim, its music director, and Pierre Boulez, as it did in April 2007 in Berlin. By the end of the Ninth Symphony, we'll surely know the Staatskapelle, the orchestraof the Berlin State Opera, inside out. To know, one fondly hopes, is to love. May 6-10, 12-13, 15-17. Carnegie Hall.
 PETER LIEBERSON A new work by Mr. Lieberson, ''The World in Flower,'' gets the in-depth Hear and Now treatment from the New York Philharmonic, with Alan Gilbert conducting. See essay by Anthony Tommasini. May 7-9. Avery Fisher Hall.
 ENSEMBLE INTERCONTEMPORAIN Susanna Malkki impressed some critics mightily in her New York debut recently, conducting the City of Birmingham Symphony as part of the Finnish invasion at the Mostly Mozart Festival. Here she conducts the elite Parisian ensemble of which she is music director in two programs of music mostly by Ligeti, including the Piano Concerto and the Violin Concerto. May 8-9. Alice Tully Hall.
 GUARNERI STRING QUARTET Though the group's glory years have become a distant memory through years of indifferent or mediocre performances, it has retained a large and loyal following. And as it closes its farewell season, there is ample reason to look back and celebrate those earlier triumphs. David Soyer, its original cellist, returns for a program including Schubert's transcendent C major Quintet, with two cellos. May 16. Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum.
 BAMBERG SYMPHONY-BAVARIAN STATE PHILHARMONIC In tightly interwoven programs, Jonathan Nott conducts orchestral works by Debussy and Stravinsky along with Bartok's three piano concertos, with Pierre-Laurent Aimard as the master soloist. May 20-21. Avery Fisher Hall.
 VAN CLIBURN INTERNATIONAL PIANO COMPETITION Now in its 13th outing, this jamboree may not have a good track record when it comes to predicting major careers, but those Texans surely know how to party. And if you take in the earlier rounds, you may encounter an anomaly now common enough to be no longer considered an anomaly: a competitor eliminated prematurely only to go on to a career bigger than that of many a winner. May 22-June 7. Bass Performance Hall, Fort Worth, (817) 335-9000, cliburn.org.
 JUNE
 STANLEY DRUCKER Lorin Maazel, a relative newcomer, is not the only one leaving the New York Philharmonic at the end of the season. Mr. Drucker, 79, the principal clarinetist, is celebrating his 60th year with the orchestra and using the occasion to stage a graceful exit. He will play Copland's Clarinet Concerto, which he has already performed 64 times with the Philharmonic. Mr. Maazel conducts. June 4, 6, 9, Avery Fisher Hall; June 5, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, Newark, (888) 466-5722, njpac.org; June 19, Tilles Center, Brookville, N.Y., (516) 299-3100, tillescenter.org.
 SILK ROAD ENSEMBLE Having toured the eastern half of the country and Toronto in March, the ensemble and its founder, the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, set up shop at Lincoln Center. Beyond the concerts at Alice Tully Hall on the first two evenings, the rest of the festival is so far unformed; but then, these performers are used to improvising. The highlight of the tour and of the residency is a chamber arrangement of a classic Azerbaijani opera, Uzeyir Hajibeyov's ''Layla and Majnun,'' a sort of Arabian counterpart to ''Romeo and Juliet.'' June 5-9. Lincoln Center.
 'WAR REQUIEM' For one of his last appearances as music director of the New York Philharmonic, Lorin Maazel displays a social conscience in his programming that one would have hoped to see much sooner. ''It's a statement that needs to be made,'' he said of Britten's pacifist masterpiece at the January press conference announcing the season. ''The world is in trouble.'' So much trouble, so little time. June 11-13. Avery Fisher Hall.
 'SYMPHONY OF A THOUSAND' And one last blast from Lorin Maazel at the New York Philharmonic, Mahler's Eighth Symphony. The work has in common with Bruckner's Eighth Symphony only vast dimensions, but if the performance of the Mahler in any way rivals that of the Bruckner with which Mr. Maazel ended last season, the parting will indeed be memorable. June 24-27. Avery Fisher Hall.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 An entry last Sunday in the New Season Classical listings misstated the Web address of Le Poisson Rouge, where the new music ensemble Bang on a Can All Stars is holding a concert on Nov. 8. It is lepoissonrouge.com. And a second entry gave outdated casting information for the Pavarotti Tribute at the Metropolitan Opera House on Sept. 18. Ildar Abdrazakov will be performing as soloist, not James Morris.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Renee Fleming, above right, in Massenet's ''Manon'' at the Metropolitan Opera. Right, Marin Alsop will conduct the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra in Bernstein's ''Mass'' in October. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN HOWARD/METROPOLITAN OPERA
CLARK VANDERGRIFT/AGENCE FRANCE - PRESS -- GETTY IMAGES)
Renee Fleming, right, will perform acts from Verdi's ''Traviata,'' Massenet's ''Manon'' and Strauss's ''Capriccio'' during the Metropolitan Opera's opening night gala on Sept. 22. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIGITTE LACOMBE/METROPOLITAN OPERA) (pg.AR70)
Clockwise from left, Hanna Weinmeister, Elisabeth Kufferath, Tanja Tetzlaff and Christian Tetzlaff will perform a program of Mozart, Sibelius and Berg as the Tetzlaff Quartet on Nov. 8. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALVARO YANEZ) (pg.AR71)
 The pianist Christopher Taylor, above right, will perform Bach at the Miller Theater on Feb. 20. Right, Susanna Malkki will conduct the Ensemble Intercontemporain at Alice Tully Hall. (pg.AR74) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); OPERA (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); DANCE (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); DANCERS (66%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008



169 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2113 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Capital: It's a Short-Term Memory

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein is the author of four books, including ''When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management.''

 BODY:
A FINANCIAL firm borrows billions of dollars to make big bets on esoteric securities. Markets turn and the bets go sour. Overnight, the firm loses most of its money, and Wall Street suddenly shuns it. Fearing that its collapse could set off a full-scale market meltdown, the government intervenes and encourages private interests to bail it out.
The firm isn't Bear Stearns -- it was Long-Term Capital Management, the hedge fund based in Greenwich, Conn., and the rescue occurred 10 years ago this month.
The Long-Term Capital fiasco momentarily shocked Wall Street out of its complacent trust in financial models, and was replete with lessons, for Washington as well as for Wall Street. But the lessons were ignored, and in this decade, the mistakes were repeated with far more harmful consequences. Instead of learning from the past, Wall Street has re-enacted it in larger form, in the mortgage debacle cum credit crisis. 
In the wake of Long-Term Capital's failure, Wall Street professed to have learned that even models designed by ''geniuses'' were subject to error and to the uncertainties that inevitably afflict human forecasts. It also professed a newfound respect for the perils of borrowing. Whether this wisdom endured may be judged by events of the past year, when not only Bear Stearns but also scores of banks and financial institutions have written off hundreds of billions of dollars -- a result of blithe faith in models of the housing industry, not to mention a voracious hunger to do business on credit.
Regulators, too, have seemed to replay the past without gaining from the experience. What of the warning that obscure derivatives needed to be better regulated and understood? What of the evident risk that intervention from Washington would foster yet more speculative behavior -- and possibly lead to a string of bailouts?
Indeed, through the lens of today's more widespread failure, the Long-Term Capital collapse looks like a small dress rehearsal. But at the time, it sent tremors of fear through the corridors of Wall Street, along the electronic byways of finance and around the globe. Somehow, a geeky band of bond traders was able to throw the financial world off kilter.
In its first four years, Long-Term Capital achieved phenomenal profits with virtually no downside. Thanks to its seemingly flawless computer models, as well as its formidable arbitrageurs -- including two Nobel laureates and a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve -- it quadrupled its capital without having a single losing quarter.
BUT in the summer of '98, its fortunes took a frightful downturn. With terrifying suddenness, bond markets turned skittish and all the fund's gambits ran into trouble.
As Long-Term Capital teetered, Wall Street feared that its unraveling could set off a systemic meltdown, and William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, agreed. On Sept. 22 and 23 -- by which time Long-Term had lost almost $4.5 billion -- he summoned the heads of the major Wall Street firms, along with senior bankers from Europe, to a conference at the Fed. Fearing chaos, 14 banks -- Bear Stearns, ironically, was the lone naysayer -- agreed to rescue Long-Term by investing $3.65 billion. Within a few weeks, calm returned and the crisis passed.
No firm had a closer view of Long-Term Capital than Bear Stearns, the broker that cleared its trades. And it was Bear that sounded the first shot in the current mortgage crisis. In summer 2007, amid a sharp rise in delinquencies on subprime mortgages, two hedge funds sponsored by Bear that invested in high-rated mortgage securities imploded. As foreclosures kept rising, other institutions suffered losses and the crisis spread.
Bear was warned to raise more capital by selling stock, but its senior executives, led by James E. Cayne, the chief executive, thought the company's stock was cheap and refused. Mr. Cayne, who was an original investor in Long-Term Capital, should have remembered that the hedge fund's most obvious flaw was its excessive borrowing, or leverage. Before its annus horribilis, Long-Term had intentionally reduced its equity to a mere 3 percent of assets. It was a fatal mistake.
This time around, Bear gambled that it could survive with a weak balance sheet -- its equity-to-assets ratio was an identical 3 percent. By March, worries that Bear was overleveraged prompted a run on its stock and pushed it to the brink of bankruptcy. Again, Wall Street feared that a chaotic collapse could jeopardize the financial system, and the Fed orchestrated a rescue.
AS striking as the parallel is to Bear, Long-Term Capital's echo is far more profound. Its strategy was grounded in the notion that markets could be modeled. Thus, in August 1998, the hedge fund calculated that its daily ''value at risk'' -- meaning the total it could lose -- was only $35 million. Later that month, it dropped $550 million in a day.
How could the fund have been so far off? Such ''risk management'' calculations were and are a central tenet of modern finance. ''Risk'' is said to be a function of potential market movement, based on historical market data. But this conceit is false, since history is at best an imprecise guide.
Risk -- say, in a card game -- can be quantified, but financial markets are subject to uncertainty, which is far less precise. We can calculate that the odds of drawing the queen of spades are 1 in 52, because we know that each deck offers 52 choices. But the number of historical possibilities keeps changing.
Before 1929, a computer would have calculated very slim odds of a Great Depression; after it, considerably greater odds. Just so, before August 1998, Russia had never defaulted on its debt -- or not since 1917, at any rate. When it did, credit markets behaved in ways that Long-Term didn't predict and wasn't prepared for.
This was the same mistake that scores of lenders would make in the housing industry. The United States had never suffered a nationwide contraction in housing prices; they assumed that the pattern would hold.
Modern finance is an antiseptic discipline; it eschews anecdotes and examples, which are messy and possibly misleading -- but nonetheless real. It favors abstraction, which is perfect but theoretical. Rather than evaluate financial assets case by case, financial models rely on the notion of randomness, which has huge implications for diversification. It means two investments are safer than one, three safer than two.
The theory of option pricing, the Black-Scholes formula, is the cornerstone of modern finance and was devised by two Long-Term Capital partners, Robert C. Merton and Myron S. Scholes, along with one other scholar. It is based on the idea that each new price is random, like a coin flip.
Long-Term Capital's partners were shocked that their trades, spanning multiple asset classes, crashed in unison. But markets aren't so random. In times of stress, the correlations rise. People in a panic sell stocks -- all stocks. Lenders who are under pressure tighten credit to all.
And Long-Term Capital's investments were far more correlated than it realized. In different markets, it made essentially the same bet: that risk premiums -- the amount lenders charge for riskier assets -- would fall. Was it so surprising that when Russia defaulted, risk premiums everywhere rose?
More recently, housing lenders -- and the rating agencies who put triple-A seals on mortgage securities -- similarly misjudged the correlations. The housing market of California was said to be distinct from Florida's; Arizona's was not like Michigan's. And though one subprime holder might default, the odds that three or six would default were exponentially less. Randomness ensured (or so it was believed) a diverse performance; diversity guaranteed safety.
After Long-Term Capital's fall, many commentators blamed a lack of liquidity. They said panic selling in thin markets pushed its assets below their economic value. That's why leverage is dangerous; if you operate with borrowed money, you lack the luxury of waiting until prices correct.
The fund's partners likened their disaster to a ''100-year flood''-- a freak event like Katrina or the Chicago Cubs winning the World Series. (The Cubs last won in 1908; right on schedule, they are in contention to repeat.) But their strategies would have lost big money this year, too.
John W. Meriwether, the fund's founder, later organized a new fund, which suffered big losses early this year, according to press reports.
If 100-year floods visit markets every decade or so, it is because our knowledge of the cards in history's deck keeps expanding. When perceptions change, liquidity evaporates quickly. Indeed, the belief that one can safely get out of a ''liquid'' market is one of the great fallacies of investing.
This lesson went unlearned. Banks like Citigroup and Merrill Lynch felt comfortable owning mortgage securities not because they knew anything about the underlying properties, but because the market for mortgages was supposedly ''liquid.'' Each firm would write down the value of its mortgage investments by more than $40 billion.
Such stupefying losses suggest the biggest difference between 1998 and today. In '98, though credit markets froze and stocks plunged, they recovered quickly. Long-Term Capital was wholly a financial episode; it left no scar on Main Street. The current crisis has its roots in housing, a mainstay of the economy, and with the bubble's bursting the damage has been enduring and severe.
But Long-Term Capital's influence on regulatory practice is anything but forgotten. Alan Greenspan conceded at the time that the fund's rescue could lead to ''moral hazard,'' meaning it could tempt financial players to take excessive risk. The warning was ignored. And the notion that a private hedge fund with but 16 partners and fewer than 200 employees could cause lasting harm was never truly examined. It was simply accepted.
The concept of too-big-to-fail, exceptional in 1998, is now a staple in the regulators' playbook. Bear Stearns and, by implication, other troubled investment banks have been taken under Washington's protective skirts; Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, too. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is pushing for easier terms for millions of homeowners; auto companies are demanding loan guarantees.
Where does it end? If individual responsibility is to be fully excised from American capitalism, the free-market enthusiasts who founded Long-Term Capital deserve no little credit.
The shock of their failure was such that hedge funds have been regarded as especially suspect ever since. This, too, is a misbegotten lesson; an investment bank (Bear Stearns) could and did wreak similar havoc. Long-Term Capital's woes had less to do with who was trading than with the kind of assets they were playing with, namely that potent tinder of modern finance: derivatives. (These are off-balance sheet agreements whose value ''derives'' from that of underlying assets like stocks or bonds.)
In traditional finance, borrowers borrow and lenders lend. The only firms exposed to, say, home mortgages, are the banks that issue them. Thanks to derivatives, a firm with exposure can pass it off, and a firm with no exposure can assume it.
Markets thus have less information about where risk lies. This results in periodic market shocks. Put differently, derivatives, which allow individual firms to manage risk, may accentuate risk for the group. Markets were stunned to discover that Long-Term Capital owned outsized portions of obscure derivatives. They dealt with that shock in typical fashion: they panicked.
Incredibly, six months after the Long-Term Capital affair, Mr. Greenspan called for less burdensome derivatives regulation, arguing that banks could police themselves. In the last year, he has been disproved to a fault.
INVESTORS have no confidence in banks or in their disclosures. How much will each downward tick in housing prices hurt the bottom line? No one knows. Failing to inspire confidence, banks cannot raise (enough) capital; thus, they do not lend.
Bear Stearns had on its books $2.5 trillion of a derivative known as a credit default swap. Perplexed and alarmed, investors dumped the stock. And Bear was party to a hopelessly complex web of such derivative deals. Rather than let its contracts fail, regulators forced it to merge.
What we need from Washington now is not a promise of help after the next bust, but a show of wisdom before it. Requiring full, meaningful derivatives disclosure would be a good start. Investors, meanwhile, could help themselves by preparing for the next 100-year flood. Rest assured, it will arrive before then.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John W. Meriwether, the founder of Long-Term Capital Management, shown in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES MCGOON/CORBIS SYGMA)(BU1)
Long-Term Capital Management's offices in Greenwich, Conn., in 1998. A group of banks bailed out the fund after it lost billions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Alan Greenspan once said a rescue of the fund could tempt others to take excessive risk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS, 1998) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010



170 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Microcosm of the Office But on Four Wheels

 BODY:
I LIVE in Brick, N.J., a 50-mile drive from my office in Ewing Township. I am a lawyer who investigates and prosecutes New Jersey lawyers accused of unethical behavior.
About four years ago, I met a woman at work who commuted by van pool. She was looking for an alternate rider for those days when regular riders were absent. With what gasoline was costing me, I jumped at the chance to become one.
At the time, I was working at the justice complex in downtown Trenton. Two years ago, when I moved to a building in Ewing Township, I decided to start my own van pool. First, I had to find enough people living on my route who were interested. V.P.S.I., a van-pool company that many New Jerseyans use, requires a minimum of six riders for each van. I knew about this company from my former van pool. 
I found the last person I needed when my husband and I were having a drink at a nearby crowded bar and he gave a woman his seat. We started talking, and she was a perfect candidate.
I'm the coordinator for our van, which V.P.S.I. leases to us, insures and maintains. I determine what each person pays, collect the money, pay the lease, recruit alternates and resolve disputes. I also drive the van one or two days a week.
The lease is normally $1,350 a month, but we receive a $175 subsidy from New Jersey Transit as an incentive because there is no mass transit available from our area to Trenton. I divide the remaining $1,175 by the 12 regular riders, which works out to $97.92 a rider a month. We all contribute for gas, the cost of which varies monthly. The amount depends on how much we received from the alternates who rode in the previous month.
In August, I raised the daily rate to $9 from $8 because of the higher price of gas. I felt bad, but the van is still a good deal. I've heard that on vans with only one driver, that person usually rides free. After all, that driver has all the responsibility and never gets to relax. Three people drive our van besides me, and we get a reduced rate.
There's one regular who is like an annuity for us. He hardly ever manages to make the van, so we get his monthly fee as well as the daily fee from the alternates who take his seat. We also have personality conflicts on the van, just like in an office.
Once when I was driving, a woman arrived late to her pickup point. I saw her and started backing up to let her board. Several members started yelling, so I slammed on the brakes but it was too late. I had hit a car behind us. Half the members got out and drove their own cars to work and half stayed with me. The officer who showed up was annoyed that everyone hadn't stayed.
Recently, we saw a car on the other side of the highway being chased by at least two state troopers who were soon joined by others. As the car tried to make a quick U-turn on the grass median, it flipped three times and landed 30 feet in front of us. I quickly pulled onto the shoulder and braked not 10 feet from the guardrail. About five troopers surrounded the woman's car. By the time they had questioned all the witnesses, we were delayed two hours. I got lots of compliments on my driving.
The van pool has been a godsend in this economy. When gas hit $3.50 a gallon earlier this year, my phone was ringing off the hook. Our waiting list for alternates became so long that some of the callers didn't wait. They started their own van pools.
I'm still friends with people I rode with on the first van, and I've made some good friends on this van, too. Last summer, a member got a new job in another part of the state. One evening we all met at a restaurant for a going-away party.
Recently someone suggested we interview potential alternates to make sure they're a good fit. Their first month of ridership would be a trial period, and we could vote them off the van just as people vote contestants off the island on ''Survivor.'' It is absolutely the way to go. As told to Patricia R. Olsen

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina Kennedy at the wheel of the van she organizes for fellow commuters working in Ewing Township, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2010



171 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: NUANCE

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
Three unfamiliar words dominated the political guns of August: in their noun states, they are nuance, catharsis and empathy.
 The subtlest first: ''Worlds Apart: McCain's Clarity vs. Obama's Nuance'' was The Washington Post's headline over a column by Sally Quinn after the two candidates appeared seriatim with Rick Warren, the pastor at the Saddleback Church in California. She liked the way the Democrat was ''low-key, thoughtful and nuanced. That kind of nuance is hard to understand sometimes -- it's unclear, complicated.'' The pollster John Zogby had a different take on Barack Obama's performance: ''That hairline difference between nuance and what appears to be flip-flopping is hurting him with liberal voters.''
 It's a noun that exemplifies the verbal gymnastics that we synonymists enjoy: nuance is ''a subtle difference in meaning; a fine distinction, inviting a delicate shading of varied connotations.'' It began in Middle French, meaning ''a shade of color,'' rooted in the Latin for ''cloud''; an offshoot is nebulous, ''cloudy; vague; obscure.'' That may explain why nuance has recently gained a pejorative nuance: ''variability, ambivalence, equivocation.'' 
 Its first recorded use in English was by Horace Walpole in England in 1781: ''The more expert one were at nuances, the more poetic one should be.'' In the next century, it was applied to a variation or shade of color: the novelist Walter Scott wrote of Lady Penelope's ''natural blush reinforcing the nuance of rouge,'' and was taken up in music, as one critic was upset with a performer's ''failure in expression or nuance.''
 In modern times, Gen. Alexander Haig brought the word back to Foggy Bottom from his NATO service in Paris; as secretary of state, he created the adjective nuancal -- a modifier I cruelly ridiculed as mere Foggy Bottom jargon in this space, for which I now apologize. Feel free to use Haig's nuancal as a slightly more emphatic version of nuanced (along with his military verb snake-check, meaning ''examine with care'').
 On to catharsis!
 On the eve of August, Senator Hillary Clinton told her disappointed supporters that the way to unify the Democratic Party was ''to have a strategy so that my delegates feel like they've had a role and that their legitimacy has been validated.'' A roll-call vote, demonstrating the nearness of her miss of the nomination, would satisfy her troops: ''It's as old as Greek drama,'' she said. ''There's a catharsis. Everybody comes, and they want to yell and scream and have their opportunity, and I think that's all to the good.'' 
 Mainstream pundits as well as the bloggergaggle leaped on the word as the perfect purifier of any taint of convention disunity. Hillary had also said: ''I think people want to feel like, 'O.K., it's a catharsis, we're here, we did it, and then everybody get behind Senator Obama.' ''
 Alienists of every political stripe caught the senator's psychological intent. To them, the word means ''a way to relieve abnormal emotional tension or profound anxiety by bringing to consciousness repressed fears and affording them expression.'' Gastroenterologists often use the synonym ''purgation'' to describe the evacuation, often by laxative or enema, of the digestive system. In nonmedical metaphoric usage, catharsis has the general meaning of ''complete cleaning out,'' which of course has a political nuance.
 An acerbic classicist who writes editorials for The Los Angeles Times, however, was moved to take up Clinton's specific reference to Greek drama: ''We don't know how familiar Clinton is with ancient Greek tragedy, but the use of the term 'catharsis' will seem ominous to those who are. According to Aristotle's 'Poetics,' catharsis (sometimes translated as 'purgation') occurs when the audience at a drama experiences a scene -- such as Oedipus's discovery that he married his mother and killed his father -- that arouses 'pity and fear.' . . .'' The anonymous, erudite editorialist -- writing before the Democrats' Denver convention -- concluded: ''The party can only hope that catharsis will purge the Clinton holdouts of their refusal to recognize reality. If not, the party could be headed for a real tragedy.''
 Finally, to identify with empathy.
 ''We have an empathy deficit,'' Obama said in late 2006. ''It's time for a sense of empathy to infuse our politics in America.'' In June, he called on government to help instill in children ''a sense of excellence and empathy.'' His staff writers got the word: a Democratic convention press release praised Clinton as ''one of the most effective and empathetic voices in the country today.'' 
 E. J. Dionne Jr., emerging as one of the most insightful of the liberal columnists in my old dodge, writes in The Washington Post that ''empathy, the gift that Bill Clinton kept on giving, is now an Obama imperative. And some of the Democrats' policy mavens see a link between empathy as a personal attribute and the way a candidate discusses policy.'' As his favored candidate's lead eroded in mid-August, Dionne saw hopeful signs ''that Obama has been listening to his critics on the centrality of economics and the empathy imperative.''
 If you think empathy is the synonym of sympathy, I'm sorry for your confusion. Back to the Greeks: pathos is ''emotion.'' Sympathy feels pity for another person's troubles, secondarily a sense of allegiance; empathy identifies with whatever is going on in another's mind or in a work of art -- visual, dramatic, musical -- whether merry or morose, hanging loose or uptight. The Greek prefix sym means ''together with, alongside''; the verbal prefix em goes deeper, meaning ''within, inside.'' When you're sympathetic, your arm goes around the shoulders of others; when you're empathetic, your mind lines up with what's going on inside their heads. Big difference; no nuance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); WRITERS (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (77%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



172 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Economic Kick-Start?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In his column, Ben Stein eloquently expressed serious concern about Barack Obama's planned economic stimulus package and way of funding it (Everybody's Business, Aug. 31). Mr. Stein noted Senator Obama's plans to tax oil companies' profits, and therefore their investors -- like pension funds, retirees and middle-class Americans who have actually saved. Why select this profitable industry and its shareholders for additional taxes? Is that fair? 
 For that matter, how does ''fairness'' fit into Mr. Obama's support of bailing out Americans, many of them driven by personal gain and lifestyle choice, who turned to adjustable-rate mortgages, or foolishly low down payments, in a time of historically low interest rates?
 I do not remember anyone suggesting during the housing boom that we levy additional taxes on the income of mortgage companies, construction companies, developers or real estate agents.
 Mike Mahler
 Fairfield, Conn., Sept. 1
 To the Editor: 
 In previous columns, Ben Stein has argued for raising income taxes on the rich and most especially on the superrich. The gist of the argument was that we need the money to reduce our stupendous deficits.
 It's unfortunate that in his most recent column, he has decried the excess profits tax on oil companies that is advocated by Senator Barack Obama. In the long run, Mr. Stein doesn't anticipate that the oil companies' profits will be above average. That may be correct. But right now they have huge profits and we have huge deficits. These companies are where the money is.
 Stephen J. Seligman, M.D.
 Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., Sept. 1 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX INCREASES (72%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (56%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



173 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns Voice Support for Rescue of Fannie and Freddie

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and JEFF ZELENY; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Albuquerque, and Jeff Zeleny from Terre Haute, Ind.

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE 

 BODY:
Both presidential campaigns expressed support on Saturday for the planned government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as a necessary step to protect homeowners from further distress.
 Senator Barack Obama, in comments to reporters in Terre Haute, Ind., said that although he supported the concept of a takeover, he would withhold final judgment until the Treasury Department released a detailed outline of the plan. 
 ''Any action we take has to be focused not on the whims of lobbyists and special interests worried about their hourly fees,'' said Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, ''but on whether it's going to strengthen our economy, whether it's going to help strengthen the housing market and help struggling homeowners who are also being hit by lost jobs and stagnant wages.'' 
 Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee for president, said at a rally in Albuquerque that ''we need to keep people in their homes, but we can't allow this to turn into a bailout of Wall Street speculators.''
 His chief economic adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, said in a telephone interview that Mr. McCain saw the takeover as distasteful but essential. ''You've got to do what they're doing today,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin said. ''You make every effort to insulate the mortgage and financial markets from financial distress so there's no further harm to homeowners and businesses in general.''
 Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, went further and called for the mortgage giants to be scaled back.
 ''They've gotten too big and too expensive to taxpayers,'' Ms. Palin said in Colorado Springs. ''The McCain-Palin administration will make them smaller and smarter and more effective for homeowners who need help.'' 
 Ms. Palin's statement, among her first on domestic policy, reflects longtime Republican criticism of the management and size of the companies, which own or back $5.3 trillion in mortgages. But Democrats have countered that scaling back the companies in the midst of a housing crisis would make mortgages more difficult to obtain.
 Mr. Obama said he had a ''lengthy conversation'' late Friday with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. but declined to discuss details. 
 ''There is no doubt that what was taking place in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was in many instances irresponsible -- it may have been illegal,'' Mr. Obama said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (73%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (70%) INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



174 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Georgia On My Mind

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
On Wednesday, The New York Times on the Web flashed a headline that caught my eye: ''U.S. to Unveil $1 Billion Aid Package to Repair Georgia.'' Wow, I thought. That's great: $1 billion to fix Georgia's roads and schools. But as I read on, I quickly realized that I had the wrong Georgia. 
 We're going to spend $1 billion to fix the Georgia between Russia and Turkey, not the one between South Carolina and Florida. 
 Sorry, but the thought of us spending $1 billion to repair a country whose president, though a democrat, recklessly provoked a war with a brutish Russia, which was itching to bash its neighbor, makes no sense to me. Yes, we should diplomatically squeeze Russia until it withdraws its troops; no one should be invading neighbors. 
 But where are our priorities? How many wars can we fight at once without finishing even one? Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and now Georgia. Which is the priority? Americans are struggling to meet their mortgages, and we're sending $1 billion to a country whose president behaved irresponsibly, just to poke Vladimir Putin in the eye. Couldn't we poke Putin with $100 million? And shouldn't we be fostering a dialogue with Georgia and with Putin? Otherwise, where is this going? A new cold war? Over what?
 And that brings me to our election.
 What I found missing in both conventions was a sense of priorities. Both Barack Obama and John McCain offered a list of good things they plan to do as president, but, since you can't do everything, where's the focus going to be?
 That focus needs to be on strengthening our capacity for innovation -- our most important competitive advantage. If we can't remain the most innovative country in the world, we are not going to have $1 billion to toss at either the country Georgia or the state of Georgia.
 While we still have enormous innovative energy bubbling up from the American people, it is not being supported and nurtured as needed in today's supercompetitive world. Right now, we feel like a country in a very slow decline -- in infrastructure, basic research and education -- just slow enough to lull us into thinking that we have all the time and money to play around in Tbilisi, Georgia, more than Atlanta, Georgia.
 As Chuck Vest, the former president of M.I.T., said to me: ''Both candidates have spoken a lot about 'change,' but in most areas of need, innovation is the only mechanism that can actually change things in substantive ways. Innovation is where creative thinking and practical know-how meet to do new things in new ways, and old things in new ways.
 ''The irony of ignoring innovation as a theme for our times is that the U.S. is still the most innovative nation on the planet,'' Vest added. ''But we can only maintain that lead if we invest in the people, the research that enable it and produce a policy environment in which it can thrive rather than being squelched. Our strong science and technology base built by past investments, our free market economy built on a base of democracy and a diverse population are unmatched to date; but we are taking it for granted.''
 A developed country's competitiveness now comes primarily from its capacity to innovate -- the ability to create the new products and services that people want, adds Curtis Carlson, chief executive of SRI International, a Silicon Valley research company. As such, ''innovation is now the only path to growth, prosperity, environmental sustainability and national security for America. But it is also an incredibly competitive world. Many information industries require that products be improved by 100 percent every 12 to 36 months, just for the company to stay in business.''
 Our competitiveness, though, he added, is based on having a broadly educated work force, superb research universities, innovation-supportive taxes, immigration and regulatory policies, a productive physical and virtual infrastructure, and a culture that embraces hard work and the creation of new opportunities.
 ''America is still the best place for innovation,'' said Carlson. However, we are falling behind in K-12 education, infrastructure and in tax, regulatory and immigration policies that no longer welcome the world's most talented minds. ''These issues must be at the top of the national agenda because they determine our ability to provide health care, clean energy and economic opportunity for our citizens.''
 (For a good plan, read the new ''Closing the Innovation Gap'' by the technologist Judy Estrin.)
 Alas, though, the Republicans just had a convention where abortion got vastly more attention than innovation, calls to buttress Tbilisi, Georgia, swamped any for Atlanta, Georgia, and ''drill, baby, drill'' was chanted instead of ''innovate, baby, innovate.''
 If we were serious about weakening both Putin and Putinism, we would be investing $1 billion in Georgia Tech to invent alternatives to oil -- the high price of which is the only reason the Kremlin is strong enough today to bully its neighbors and its own people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GEORGIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



175 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: When Academia Puts Profit Ahead of Wonder

BYLINE: By JANET RAE-DUPREE. 
Janet Rae-Dupree writes about science and emerging technology in Silicon Valley.

 BODY:
''It is the policy and objective of the Congress to use the patent system to promote the utilization of inventions arising from federally supported research or development'' and ''to promote collaboration between commercial concerns and nonprofit organizations, including universities.''
 -- The Bayh-Dole Act, a k a the University Small Business Patent Procedures Act
 THE law of unintended consequences is perhaps less a ''law'' than a simple statement of fact: We cannot accurately predict all the results of our actions. We may do something with the best of intentions, and sometimes even accomplish the good toward which we aim. Yet, at the same time, we are all too often surprised by results that didn't occur to us beforehand.
 The Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 started out with the best of intentions. By clearing away the thicket of conflicting rules and regulations at various federal agencies, it set out to encourage universities to patent and license results of federally financed research. For the first time, academicians were able to profit personally from the market transfer of their work. For the first time, academia could be powered as much by a profit motive as by the psychic reward of new discovery. 
 University ''tech transfer'' offices have boomed from a couple dozen before the law's passage to nearly 300 today. University patents have leapt a hundredfold. Professors are stepping away from the lab and lecture hall to navigate the thicket of venture capital, business regulations and commercial competition. 
 None of these are necessarily negative outcomes. But more than a quarter-century after President Jimmy Carter signed it into law, the Bayh-Dole Act, sponsored by the former Senators Birch Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, and Robert Dole, Republican of Kansas, is under increasing scrutiny by swelling ranks of critics. The primary concern is that its original intent -- to infuse the American marketplace with the fruits of academic innovation -- has also distorted the fundamental mission of universities.
 In the past, discovery for its own sake provided academic motivation, but today's universities function more like corporate research laboratories. Rather than freely sharing techniques and results, researchers increasingly keep new findings under wraps to maintain a competitive edge. What used to be peer-reviewed is now proprietary. ''Share and share alike'' has devolved into ''every laboratory for itself.''
 In trying to power the innovation economy, we have turned America's universities into cutthroat business competitors, zealously guarding the very innovations we so desperately want behind a hopelessly tangled web of patents and royalty licenses.
 Of course, there is precedent for scientific secrecy, notes Daniel S. Greenberg , author of ''Science for Sale: The Perils, Rewards and Delusions of Campus Capitalism'' (University of Chicago Press, 2007). When James Watson and Francis Crick were homing in on DNA's double-helix structure in the 1950s, they zealously guarded their work from prying eyes until they could publish their findings, to be certain that they would get the credit for making the discovery.
 ''They didn't try to patent it,'' Mr. Greenberg notes, ''but somebody doing the same work today would certainly take a crack at patenting the double helix.''
 In fact, it was the life sciences -- in particular, biotechnology -- that started universities down the slippery commercial slope in the first place. Even before the Bayh-Dole Act, pharmaceutical companies were eagerly trolling campuses, looking for projects to finance. After the law was passed, they stepped up their efforts, but now with renewed zeal for keeping potential trade secrets from competitors.
 While patients have benefited from the growing supply of new medications, the universities have obtained patents not only for the actual substances but also for the processes and methods used to make them, potentially hampering discovery of even more beneficial treatments. 
 ''Bayh-Dole tore down the taboos that existed against universities engaging in overtly commercial activity. Universities really thought that they were going to make it rich,'' said Jennifer Washburn, author of ''University Inc.: The Corporate Corruption of Higher Education'' (Basic Books, 2005). ''Each school was convinced that if they came up with that one blockbuster invention, they could solve all their financial problems.''
 Ms. Washburn says that was ''extremely wrong-headed.'' Initially reacting to the law by slapping patents on every possible innovation, universities quickly discovered that patents were an expensive proposition. The fees and legal costs involved in obtaining a single patent can run upward of $15,000, and that doesn't count the salaries of administrative staff members. Instead of bringing home the bacon, university tech transfer offices were throwing money into the void with little hope of returns.
 To date, Ms. Washburn says, data gathered by the Association of University Technology Managers, a trade group, show that fewer than half of the 300 research universities actively seeking patents have managed to break even from technology transfer efforts. Instead, two-thirds of the revenue tracked by the association has gone to only 13 institutions.
 Part of the problem has been a lingering misunderstanding about where the value lies in innovation. Patenting a new basic science technique, or platform technology, puts it out of the reach of graduate students who might have made tremendous progress using it. 
 Similarly, exclusive licensing of a discovery to a single company thwarts that innovation's use in any number of other fields. R. Stanley Williams, a nanotechnologist from Hewlett-Packard, testified to Congress in 2002 that much of the academic research to which H.P. has had difficulty gaining access could be licensed to several companies without eroding its intellectual property value.
 ''Severe disagreements have arisen over conflicting interpretations of the Bayh-Dole Act,'' he said. ''Large U.S.-based corporations have become so disheartened and disgusted with the situation, they are now working with foreign universities, especially the elite institutions in France, Russia and China.'' 
 THE issue is further clouded by ''reach through'' licenses, complex arrangements used by many tech transfer offices. A reach-through lets the patent holder claim a share of any profits that result from using, say, an enabling technology, even if those profits come several steps down the market transfer line. Several universities are already embroiled in messy lawsuits trying to sort out who is entitled to what.
 Perhaps the most troublesome aspect of campus commercialization is that research decisions are now being based on possible profits, not on the inherent value of knowledge. ''Blue sky'' research -- the kind of basic experimentation that leads to a greater understanding of how the world works -- has largely been set aside in favor of projects considered to have more immediate market potential.
 In academia's continuing pursuit of profit, the wonder of simple serendipitous discovery has been left on the curb. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES WANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (92%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

PERSON: BIRCH BAYH (79%); JIMMY CARTER (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



176 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Ending Our Oil Addiction

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''And Then There Was One,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Sept. 3): 
 Ending our oil addiction should be not only an environmental and economic concern, but also a national security priority.
 While industrial emissions contribute to global warming and rising oil prices cause inflation here at home, oil wealth has emboldened Russia to suppress democracy and attack its neighbors, Iran to threaten Israel, Saudi Arabia to finance extremists who promote terrorism, and Sudan to commit genocide in Darfur with China's tacit support. 
 Increasing domestic oil production by exploiting America's environmentally sensitive Arctic wildlife refuge and coastal shelves will neither reduce gas prices in the short term nor provide a long-term solution for our growing energy needs. To the contrary, if we rely on more drilling, America's role as a world superpower will vanish along with the coral reefs and polar bears. 
 The green solution is also the red, white and blue one. If our next president is a true patriot, he will convene a group of scientists similar to the Manhattan Project to address this issue while challenging the American people to innovate and find their own novel solutions.
 Stephen A. Silver San Francisco, Sept. 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); WILDLIFE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); MAMMALS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); GENOCIDE (55%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (54%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SUDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); ISRAEL (87%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



177 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: A Free-Market-Loving, Big-Spending, Fiscally Conservative Wealth Redistributionist

 BODY:
As Barack Obama hones his economic policy (David Leonhardt, Aug. 24), he should include a historian among his advisers to counterbalance advice he receives from free-market economists. Free-market laissez-faire economics is based on the faulty notion that corporate owners, workers and consumers have equal power and influence within the economic sphere. History teaches otherwise. Obama should study America's Gilded Age, and the difficult times that followed, to see why it is important for government to regulate business and provide necessary support for workers. The titans of industry have disproportionate power that must be held in check by government to make our economic system work for everyone.
 Jerry Wallingford 
 San Diego
 Nuance and explication are important and welcome in outlets like The Times, but the American people need and deserve a more direct message, something like: ''This outrageously expensive war must be ended so that the great sums of money spent daily can be reinvested immediately in the domestic economy: infrastructure like roads and bridges; light rail and solar, to rapidly create real jobs for real people with real benefits; and lower taxes than those under Bush or those proposed by McCain for the bottom 80 percent of the American income ladder.''
 Obama needs to say it directly, again and again between now and Election Day. Forget discussion of how the service economy has failed to create sustained growth; save the nuance for governing in January. Hit the economy in as few words as possible again and again until it sticks.
 Pam Talley
 Louisville, Colo.
 In his otherwise excellent article, David Leonhardt misses the single most pernicious thing done tax-wise during the Reagan era to favor the rich. The alternative minimum tax was gutted as to its original purpose, which was to protect the common good from unfair tax-sheltering by the rich. This is why the alternative minimum tax now hits more at the middle class than the rich. Any scheme for tax reform needs to address this black-hole-size loophole.
 The Rev. Stewart Wilber
 Roswell, Ga.
 Whatever you think of Obama's plan to shape the economy, there is no doubt that his plan is complicated. If you believe that simplicity is the mark of the master, there is much to dislike in Obamanomics, which reflects his worldview that social change and something approaching equal outcomes must be achieved through the tax code. Such a plan is doomed to failure.
 How about a plan to truly simplify the tax code, with every American paying his or her fair share with a flat tax, no social engineering, no deductions, no exceptions.
 Michael G. Brautigam
 Cincinnati
 Though I support Obama, I worry that when he says he doesn't like the word ''redistributionist,'' he runs the risk of political doublespeak. His tax proposal is the cornerstone of his economic policy; he shouldn't shy away from using this, or any other descriptive terminology. Now is not the time to be subtle; the 60 to 80 percent of households who will benefit from this proposal need to hear this message.
 Mark Lemler
 Long Valley, N.J.
 I have yet to hear or read of Obama counseling the country that individual fiscal discipline is both morally and economically a good thing. Such comments may be politically difficult, but this does not negate their truth. 
 Norman Leibovitz
 Philadephia
 In criticizing tax reductions on dividends some years ago, Warren Buffett provided the clearest and pithiest narrative supporting Obama's tax policies: ''Putting $1,000 in the pockets of 310,000 families with urgent needs is going to provide far more stimulus to the economy than putting the same $310 million in my pockets.'' Data on Clinton's eight years of tax policies favoring the lower- and middle-classes versus the 16 years of trickle-down economics under Reagan and Bush would seem to bear out Buffett's logic.
 Pasky Pascual
 Silver Spring, Md.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (LEFT: VICTOR SCHRAGER: RIGHT: TIM DAVIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HISTORY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX REFORM (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



178 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: China Calls for Peaceful Resolution of Nuclear Standoff

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
President Hu Jintao of China urged other nations on Saturday to negotiate a resolution to Iran's nuclear issue during a meeting with Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, making clear again that China disapproves of any move by Western countries to attack Iran with military force. 
 Mr. Hu met with Mr. Ahmadinejad on Saturday in the Great Hall of the People here after Mr. Ahmadinejad flew into Beijing to attend the opening ceremony of the Paralympic Games, which began in the evening.
 ''At present, the Iran nuclear issue is faced with a rare opportunity for the resumption of talks, and we hope all parties concerned could seize the opportunity and show flexibility to push for a peaceful settlement of the issue,'' Mr. Hu said in the meeting, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported.
 The agency said in its own words that Mr. Hu had said that that China ''respects Iran's right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy'' and ''adheres to the peaceful settlement of the Iran nuclear issue through dialogues and negotiations.''
 According to Xinhua, Mr. Hu also said that ''both China and Iran are big developing nations, and have strong economic complementarity and great potential of cooperation.''
 At issue is Iran's refusal to halt its uranium enrichment program, a central step in burning uranium into nuclear fuel -- or, at greater concentrations, into bombs. Senior American officials contend that Iran is trying to build a nuclear warhead, while Iran has repeatedly said that its program is for peaceful purposes.
 Mr. Hu spoke more than a week after Iran announced that it had increased the number of operating centrifuges at its uranium enrichment plant. On Aug. 29, Iran said it had 4,000 operating centrifuges at the plant, in the city of Natanz, which was an increase of 1,000 from the number it gave last November. 
 As members of the United Nations Security Council, China and Russia, each of which have veto power, have long opposed plans by the United States and other Western countries to impose strict sanctions on Iran. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hu Jintao of China, right, welcomed Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who arrived in Beijing on Saturday. (POOL PHOTO BY GUANG NIU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); VETO (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (70%); CENTRIFUGES (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



179 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Bhutto's Widower, Viewed as Ally by U.S., Wins the Pakistani Presidency Handily

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and SALMAN MASOOD; Ismail Khan contributed reporting from Peshawar, Pakistan, and Steven Lee Myers from Washington.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of the assassinated former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto who has little experience in governing, was elected president of Pakistan on Saturday by a wide margin.
 Mr. Zardari, 53, who spent 11 years in jail on corruption charges that remain unproved, succeeds Pervez Musharraf, who resigned last month under the threat of impeachment. He is expected to be sworn in on Monday or Tuesday, officials said.
 Mr. Zardari has the tacit approval of the United States, which views him as an ally in the campaign against terrorism. He has promised a tougher fight against members of the Taliban and Al Qaeda ensconced in the nation's tribal areas, from where they mount assaults on American and NATO troops in Afghanistan. 
 His election coincides with a stepped-up effort by the United States to root out the Taliban and Al Qaeda from the tribal areas. American commandos attacked militants in a village near the Afghan border on Wednesday, in what American military officials said could be a continuing campaign in Pakistan's tribal region.
 Evidence is growing that the government and military face almost overwhelming difficulties in battling the militants, who now virtually control the tribal areas. In a reminder of that challenge, a suicide bomber killed at least 30 people and wounded 80 at a police checkpoint near Peshawar on Saturday.
 Official results from voting in the two houses of Parliament and four provincial assemblies showed that Mr. Zardari, the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party, won 481 of 702 votes. His closest competitor, Saeeduz Zaman Siddiqui, of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, won 153 votes, and a third candidate, Mushahid Hussain Syed, received 44 votes. 
 After Ms. Bhutto was killed in December, Mr. Zardari became the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party, which was founded by Ms. Bhutto's father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, and is considered to be almost a cult of the Bhutto dynasty. 
 Mr. Zardari led the party to victory in a parliamentary election on Feb. 18 and formed a coalition with Nawaz Sharif, the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League-N.
 That coalition collapsed last month amid recriminations over the reinstatement of some 60 judges fired by President Musharraf when he imposed emergency rule in November.
 In a sign of conciliation, Mr. Sharif telephoned Mr. Zardari on Saturday to congratulate him on his victory and pledge his support, according to television accounts of the call.
 The White House issued a supportive statement on Saturday. ''The United States congratulates Asif Ali Zardari on his election as president,'' said Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman. ''President Bush looks forward to working with him, Prime Minister Gilani and the government of Pakistan on issues important to both countries, including counterterrorism and making sure Pakistan has a stable and secure economy.''
 Mr. Zardari's aides have promised that as president, Mr. Zardari would agree to the elimination of a constitutional provision that allows the president to dismiss Parliament, long considered a weak institution.
 The minister of information, Sherry Rehman, a member of the Pakistan Peoples Party, said the relationship between the presidency and Parliament would be better balanced under Mr. Zardari, resulting in a ''new era of democratic stability.'' Ms. Rehman added, ''Today, every Pakistani can raise his head with pride.''
 After the vote, Mr. Zardari spoke briefly outside the prime minister's residence. Flanked by his two teenage daughters, Bakhtawar and Asifa, Mr. Zardari said he would uphold the democratic philosophy of Ms. Bhutto. 
 ''Parliament will be sovereign,'' he said. ''This president shall be subservient to the Parliament.''
 But there was considerable skepticism among politicians and in the news media that Mr. Zardari would agree to a diminution of power. An editorial on Saturday in the daily newspaper Dawn said it hoped that ''his commitment to make himself a titular head of state will not waver.''
 Most Pakistanis looked on the presidential vote with considerable indifference, a sharp contrast to the excitement during the campaign leading to parliamentary elections.
 In the Aabpara market in Islamabad, some storekeepers viewed Mr. Zardari's victory as a foregone conclusion.
 Several said it was good for Pakistan to have a president and a prime minister from the same party, reflecting the official line of the Pakistan Peoples Party. ''He can be a good president because the whole party is behind him,'' said Malik Zahoor, 50.
 But some vendors said the corruption charges against Mr. Zardari made him unsuitable for the presidency. 
 ''He's a certified thief,'' said Akhlaq Abbasi, 60, the owner of a fabric and tailoring shop. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Asif Ali Zardari, who has little experience in governing and won by a wide margin, celebrated in Islamabad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); CORRUPTION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (91%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (59%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



180 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: A Call to Action, for Earth and Profit

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
IN his role as a cheerleader for globalization, Thomas L. Friedman has always been aware that there are environmental consequences. But now, with ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.95), he embraces going green not just as a national security imperative but also as an economic El Dorado.
 Lacerating the ubiquitous, feel-good, magaziney ''205 easy ways to save the earth,'' Mr. Friedman, a columnist for The New York Times, exhorts sacrifice to stem rapidly accelerating biodiversity loss. He wants a green revolution as part of nothing less than ''nation building'' in America. 
 He also says that renewable energy driven by technology plays to American strengths: great laboratories and entrepreneurs, a start-up culture of risk and reward. If the United States gets serious, it will dominate, creating not just jobs but also whole new industries.
 Mr. Friedman's first book on globalization, ''The Lexus and the Olive Tree'' (1999), was translated into 27 languages; his second, ''The World Is Flat'' (2005), has sold more than two million copies. So ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded'' raises outsized expectations. Admirers and critics will have a field day with his take-no-prisoners punditry. Either you agree with him or you wear a dunce cap. 
 Our planet is becoming hot because flat (globalization, in Mr. Friedman's lingo) is meeting crowded (ever more people are joining the resource-consuming middle class). As of 1950, all world economic activity was valued at $7 trillion, he says, but now that much in new growth takes place each decade. He quotes scientists and representatives of nongovernmental organizations, as well as some corporate executives, urgently warning of the need to avoid a doubling of carbon in the atmosphere over the next few decades -- the course we are on. 
 Mr. Friedman has an unabashedly American-centric solution: the United States can regain its national purpose and save the world via green innovation. This can happen, he says, if Americans recognize -- in the words of John Gardner, founder of Common Cause -- ''a series of great opportunities disguised as insoluble problems.'' Overflowing landfills? Devise products with materials that are more easily reusable, and rack up profits. 
 The book opens self-referentially, quoting a reader commenting to the author about one of his columns. The content and method will be familiar to Mr. Friedman's legions of readers: source, anecdote, pop metaphor. Repeat point. In italics. The unfamiliar reader should prepare for hyperbole, neologisms and aphorisms. ''Affluenza.'' ''Code Green.'' ''The new Energy Climate Era (E.C.E.).'' ''We've already hit the iceberg.'' We're ''the proverbial frog in the pail on the stove'' (boiled to death after failing to jump out because the temperature rose only incrementally). ''We are the flood, we are the asteroid. We had better learn how to be the ark.''
 Relentless, the text can also be trenchant. ''Our addiction to oil,'' he writes, ''makes global warming warmer, petrodictators stronger, clean air dirtier, poor people poorer, democratic countries weaker, and radical terrorists richer.'' The magnitude of the challenge requires government action, he argues, but government should act so as to spur the greater power of the marketplace. He notes that government shapes the market all the time -- think home-mortgage tax breaks -- and has long underwritten profligate oil consumption.
 Instead, he argues, Washington should shift current incentives by making the cost of hydrocarbons higher, with new taxes (and a price floor), and by making the cost of alternative fuels lower, with tax breaks, until clean industries achieve scale and can compete without subsidies. To Americans who abhor talk of higher taxes, Mr. Friedman asks, would you rather shell out to the Saudi, Russian and Venezuelan treasuries, as you now do, or to the United States Treasury?
 Mr. Friedman assures us that if America spends to get clean, others will follow suit -- and not claim a license to continue polluting. In a chapter dedicated to China, he writes that a still-unclean United States would give China an excuse to repeat America's dirty-fuels economic growth, and that if China does not go green, its ''emissions and appetites will nullify everything everyone else does to save the earth.'' 
 Finally, Mr. Friedman slams the climate-change skeptics, but also slyly observes that ''if climate change is a hoax, it is the most wonderful hoax ever perpetrated on the United States of America.'' By responding, America would become immensely more efficient, cleaner and leaner.
 When the book tries to explain why this is not already happening, it is less compelling. ''If the right things to do are so obvious to the people who know the most about the energy business,'' Mr. Friedman asks, ''why can't we put them in place?'' His too-pat answer: omnipotent old-industry lobbies and dumb political leaders. 
 ''I am convinced,'' he writes in populist guise, ''that the public is ready; they're ahead of the politicians.'' So special interests and venal politicos make consumers live in supersized homes and drive gas guzzlers? Who's reading all those easy-ways-to-go-green articles that he seems to regard as self-indulgent?
 One up-and-running energy alternative supported by the government, corn-based ethanol, has costs that may exceed its benefits. But instead of confronting this apparent cautionary tale head on, Mr. Friedman questions biofuels in a mere footnote.
 A few anecdotes are long enough to qualify as illuminating case studies, like one about GE Transportation's energy-efficient locomotives, a hit in emerging markets. The book's best example may be First Solar Inc., which was founded in Ohio and invented thin-film solar technology, which is cheaper to use and works in more varied climates than regular silicon solar panels. But First Solar found a more hospitable public-policy environment and built its new factory abroad, in the former East Germany. 
 ''A vision without resources is a hallucination,'' goes a Pentagon saying quoted by Mr. Friedman, who adds that ''right now we are having a green hallucination.'' But he remains an optimist: the money is there to be made. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WRITERS (76%); BIODIVERSITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LANDFILLS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Hot, Flat, and Crowded (Book)>; Hot, Flat, and Crowded (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



181 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2355 words

HEADLINE: 24/7 School Reform

BYLINE: By PAUL TOUGH. 
Paul Tough is an editor at the magazine. His book, ''Whatever It Takes: Geoffrey Canada's Quest to Change Harlem and America,'' will be published next week.

 BODY:
In an election season when Democrats find themselves unusually unified on everything from tax policy to foreign affairs, one issue still divides them: education. It is a surprising fault line, perhaps, given the party's long dominance on the issue. Voters consistently say they trust the Democrats over the Republicans on education, by a wide margin. But the split in the party is real, deep and intense, and it shows no signs of healing any time soon.
 On one side are the members of the two huge teachers' unions and the many parents who support them. To them, the big problem in public education is No Child Left Behind, President Bush's signature education law. Teachers have many complaints about the law: it encourages ''teaching to the test'' at the expense of art, music and other electives, they say; it blames teachers, especially those in inner-city schools, for the poor performance of disadvantaged children; and it demands better results without providing educators with the resources they need. 
 On the other side are the party's self-defined ''education reformers.'' Members of this group -- a loose coalition of mayors and superintendents, charter-school proponents and civil rights advocates -- actually admire the accountability provisions in No Child Left Behind, although they often criticize the law's implementation. They point instead to a bigger, more systemic crisis. These reformers describe the underperformance of the country's schoolchildren, and especially of poor minorities, as a national crisis that demands a drastic overhaul of the way schools are run. In order to get better teachers into failing classrooms, they support performance bonuses, less protection for low-performing teachers, alternative certification programs to attract young, ambitious teachers and flexible contracts that could allow for longer school days and an extended school year. The unions see these proposals as attacks on their members' job security -- which, in many ways, they are.
 As the fall campaign and a new school year begin, both the unionists and the reformers find themselves distracted by the same question: Which side is Barack Obama on? Each camp has tried to claim him as its own -- and Obama, for his part, has done his best to make it easy for them. He reassures the unions by saying he will reform No Child Left Behind so teachers will no longer ''be forced to spend the academic year preparing students to fill in bubbles on standardized tests,'' and he placates reformers by calling himself a ''strong champion of charter schools.'' The reformers point to his speech in July to the National Education Association, during which he was booed, briefly, for endorsing changes to teachers' compensation structure. The unionists, in turn, emphasize his speech a week later to the American Federation of Teachers, during which he said, ''I am tired of hearing you, the teachers who work so hard, blamed for our problems.'' On blogs and at conferences, the two sides have continued to snipe at each other, all the while parsing Obama's speeches and policy pronouncements, looking for new clues to his true positions. 
 It's possible, though, that both camps are looking in the wrong place for answers. What is most interesting and novel about Obama's education plans is how much they involve institutions other than schools.
 The American social contract has always identified public schools as the one place where the state can and should play a role in the process of child-rearing. Outside the school's walls (except in cases of serious abuse or neglect), society is seen to have neither a right nor a responsibility to intervene. But a new and growing movement of researchers and advocates has begun to argue that the longstanding and sharp conceptual divide between school and not-school is out of date. It ignores, they say, overwhelming evidence of the impact of family and community environments on children's achievement. At the most basic level, it ignores the fact that poor children, on average, arrive in kindergarten far behind their middle-class peers. There is evidence that schools can do a lot to erase that divide, but the reality is that most schools do not. If we truly want to counter the effects of poverty on the achievement of children, these advocates argue, we need to start a whole lot earlier and do a whole lot more.
 The three people who have done the most to propel this nascent movement are James J. Heckman, Susan B. Neuman and Geoffrey Canada -- though each of them comes at the problem from a different angle, and none of them would necessarily cite the other two as close allies. Heckman, an occasional informal Obama adviser, is an economist at the University of Chicago, and in a series of recent papers and books he has developed something of a unified theory of American poverty. More than ever before, Heckman argues, the problem of persistent poverty is at its root a problem of skills -- what economists often call human capital. Poor children grow into poor adults because they are never able, either at home or at school, to acquire the abilities and resources they need to compete in a high-tech service-driven economy -- and Heckman emphasizes that those necessary skills are both cognitive (the ability to read and compute) and noncognitive (the ability to stick to a schedule, to delay gratification and to shake off disappointments). The good news, Heckman says, is that specific interventions in the lives of poor children can diminish that skill gap -- as long as those interventions begin early (ideally in infancy) and continue throughout childhood. 
 What kind of interventions? Well, that's where the work of Susan Neuman becomes relevant. In 2001, Neuman, an education scholar at the University of Michigan, was recruited to a senior position in George W. Bush's Department of Education, helping to oversee the development and then the implementation of No Child Left Behind. She quit in 2003, disillusioned with the law, and became convinced that its central goal -- to raise disadvantaged children to a high level of achievement through schools alone -- was simply impossible. Her work since then can be seen as something of a vast mea culpa for her time in Washington. After leaving government, Neuman spent several years crisscrossing the nation, examining and analyzing programs intended to improve the lives of disadvantaged children. Her search has culminated in a book, ''Changing the Odds for Children at Risk,'' to be published in November, in which she describes nine nonschool interventions. She includes the Nurse-Family Partnership, which sends trained nurses to visit and counsel poor mothers during and after their pregnancies; Early Head Start, a federal program, considerably more ambitious than Head Start itself, that offers low-income families parental support, medical care and day-care centers during the first three years of the lives of their children; Avance, a nine-month language-enrichment program for Spanish-speaking parents, mostly immigrants from Mexico, that operates in Texas and Los Angeles; and Bright Beginnings, a pre-K program in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school district in North Carolina that enrolls 4-year-olds who score the lowest on a screening test of cognitive ability and manages to bring most of them up to grade level by the first day of kindergarten. 
 Neuman's favorite programs share certain characteristics -- they start early, focus on the families that need them the most and provide intensive support. Many of the interventions work with parents to make home environments more stimulating; others work directly with children to improve their language development (a critical factor in later school success). All of them, Neuman says, demonstrate impressive results. The problem right now is that the programs are isolated and scattered across the country, and they are usually directed at only a few years of a child's life, which means that their positive effects tend to fade once the intervention ends.
 This is where Geoffrey Canada comes in. He runs the first and so far the only organization in the country that pulls together under a single umbrella integrated social and educational services for thousands of children at once. Canada's agency, the Harlem Children's Zone, has a $58 million budget this year, drawn mostly from private donors; it currently serves 8,000 kids in a 97-block neighborhood of Harlem. (I've spent the last five years reporting on his organization's work and its implications for the country.) Canada shares many of the views of the education reformers -- he runs two intensive K-12 charter schools with extended hours and no union contract -- but at the same time he offers what he calls a ''conveyor belt'' of social programs, beginning with Baby College, a nine-week parenting program that encourages parents to choose alternatives to corporal punishment and to read and talk more with their children. As students progress through an all-day prekindergarten and then through a charter school, they have continuous access to community supports like family counseling, after-school tutoring and a health clinic, all designed to mimic the often-invisible cocoon of support and nurturance that follows middle-class and upper-middle-class kids through their childhoods. The goal, in the end, is to produce children with the abilities and the character to survive adolescence in a high-poverty neighborhood, to make it to college and to graduate. 
 Though the conveyor belt is still being constructed in Harlem, early results are positive. Last year, the charter schools' inaugural kindergarten class reached third grade and took their first New York state achievement tests: 68 percent of the students passed the reading test, which beat the New York City average and came within two percentage points of the state average, and 97 percent of them passed the math test, well above both the city and state average.
 Obama has embraced, directly or indirectly, all three of these new thinkers. His campaign invited Heckman to critique its education policy, and Obama has proposed large-scale expansions of two of Neuman's chosen interventions, the Nurse-Family Partnership and Early Head Start. Most ambitiously, Obama has pledged to replicate the Harlem Children's Zone in 20 cities across the country. ''The philosophy behind the project is simple,'' Obama said in a speech last year announcing his plan. ''If poverty is a disease that infects an entire community in the form of unemployment and violence, failing schools and broken homes, then we can't just treat those symptoms in isolation. We have to heal that entire community. And we have to focus on what actually works.''
 Obama has proposed that these replication projects, which he has labeled Promise Neighborhoods, be run as private/public partnerships, with the federal government providing half the funds and the rest being raised by local governments and private philanthropies and businesses. It would cost the federal government ''a few billion dollars a year,'' he acknowledged in his speech. ''But we will find the money to do this, because we can't afford not to.''
 It remains to be seen, of course, whether Obama will convince voters with this position, and whether, if elected, he will do the heavy lifting required to put such an ambitious national program in place. There are many potential obstacles. A lot of conservatives would oppose a new multibillion-dollar federal program as a Great Society-style giveaway to the poor. And many liberals are wary of any program that tries to change the behavior of inner-city parents; to them, teaching poor parents to behave more like middle-class parents can feel paternalistic. Union leaders will find it hard to support an effort that has nonunion charter schools at its heart. Education reformers often support Canada's work, but his premise -- that schools alone are not enough to make a difference in poor children's lives -- makes many of them anxious. And in contrast to the camps arrayed on either side of the school-reform debate, there is no natural constituency for the initiative: no union or interest group that stands to land new jobs or new contracts, no deep-pocketed philanthropy devoted to spreading the message. 
 The real challenge Obama faces is to convince voters that the underperformance of poor children is truly a national issue -- that it should matter to anyone who isn't poor. Heckman, especially, argues that we should address the problem not out of any mushy sense of moral obligation, but for hardheaded reasons of global competitiveness. At a moment when nations compete mostly through the skill level of their work force, he argues, we cannot afford to let that level decline. 
 Obama's contention is that the traditional Democratic solution -- more money for public schools -- is no longer enough. In February, in an interview with the editorial board of The Journal Sentinel in Milwaukee, he called for ''a cultural change in education in inner-city communities and low-income communities across the country -- not just inner-city, but also rural.'' In many low-income communities, Obama said, ''there's this sense that education is somehow a passive activity, and you tip your head over and pour education in somebody's ear. And that's not how it works. So we're going to have to work with parents.''
 In the end, the kind of policies that Obama is proposing will require an even broader cultural change -- not just in the way poor Americans think about education but also in the way middle-class Americans think about poverty. And that won't be easy. No matter how persuasive the statistics Heckman is able to muster or how impressive the results that Canada is able to achieve, many Americans will continue to simply blame parents or teachers for the underperformance of poor kids. Obama's challenge -- if he decides to take it on -- will be to convince voters that society as a whole has a crucial role to play in the lives of disadvantaged children, not just in the classroom but outside schools as well. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY Alex Tehrani) CHART: GRADE EXPECTATIONS: Bright Beginnings, a pre-K program in North Carolina, enrolls 4-yearolds with the lowest scores on cognitive-ability tests. The numbers below chart one group's progress after completing the program. They show the percentage of students at or above grade level on literacy assessments, compared with a group with similar demographics and with all other students of a same age. Chart details pie-chart of comparison group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: An Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MERIT PAY (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



182 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Shying Away From N.Y. Loans

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
BORROWERS in New York with poor credit scores already know how hard it is to get a mortgage. As of this month, it has become even more difficult.
 A law signed this summer by Gov. David A. Paterson introduced a host of new regulations for subprime loans that are meant to protect borrowers and the financial stability of the mortgage finance system. With the legislation, New York created a threshold that separates subprime loans from other mortgages, so that loans 1.75 percentage points above the prevailing market interest rates are deemed subprime.
 Among other things, borrowers with high-cost loans can block being foreclosed on if they can prove they should not have been offered the loans in the first place. 
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored companies that back most of the nation's mortgages, have said that as of September they would not buy subprime loans from New York because the new law exposes them to too much risk and cost. ''We're simply not in position to monitor and enforce compliance with all these requirements,'' said Brad German, a Freddie Mac spokesman.
 Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae back few subprime loans anyway, mortgage industry executives and regulators said, but the announcement left mortgage brokers wondering whether any lenders would touch such mortgages -- even community banks that tend to keep loans on their books, rather than sell them to Fannie or Freddie.
 Gene Tricozzi, the executive director of the New York Association of Mortgage Brokers, said such banks might not offer subprime loans because Fannie and Freddie's new policy strips these lenders of future options, should they ever need to sell the loans.
 Mr. Tricozzi said that Federal Housing Administration loans might be the only remaining choice for prospective borrowers with poor credit. F.H.A. loans are insured and repaid by the federal government if borrowers default. The F.H.A. is giving lenders incentives to offer struggling borrowers new government-insured mortgages, starting next month.
 These loans, which typically carry fixed rates, will save borrowers from sharply increasing interest rates, but the loans require borrowers to pay F.H.A. insurance premiums, which can add as much as half a percentage point to the interest rate. Those additional fees, Mr. Tricozzi said, will often bump a loan into the high-cost category under New York's new laws.
 But it appears that lenders will continue to make such loans, even if they cannot sell them to Fannie and Freddie. Terry M. Carr, a spokeswoman for Ginnie Mae, the government-sponsored company that backs F.H.A. and other government-insured mortgages, said the agency would continue to support loans made in New York -- even if those loans cross into the ''high cost'' category of the state's new laws.
 Mr. Tricozzi called Ginnie Mae's statement ''great news'' because it keeps open an important option for subprime borrowers. 
 Such F.H.A. borrowers will still pay as much as 8.5 percent for a long-term mortgage, Mr. Tricozzi added. That is considerably higher than the 6.5 percent rates recently offered those with good credit.
 Richard Neiman, superintendent of the New York State Departmentationanking, said the new protections, while shrinking the subprime market in the short term, should help to restore it in later. Investors who buy subprime mortgages from lenders in the future will know the lenders have made such loans carefully.
 ''When the market returns,'' he said, ''there will be sound rules in place.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Fixed and adjustable rate mortgages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (79%); FORECLOSURE (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



183 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3194 words

HEADLINE: What Does Henry Kravis Want?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
LAST month, as Henry R. Kravis, the co-founder of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, and his wife, Marie-Josee, took their seats at the Water Cube in Beijing for a session of synchronized diving at the Olympics, they quickly recognized a couple sitting nearby: Stephen A. Schwarzman, the co-founder of the Blackstone Group, and his wife, Christine Hearst. 
 For a brief moment, there was an awkward pause as the longtime rivals took stock of each other. Then both men cracked smiles, and Mr. Schwarzman extended his hand, congratulating Mr. Kravis on his latest move: an attempt to take K.K.R. public despite a stock market mired in uncertainty and fear.
 Mr. Schwarzman had already taken Blackstone public -- more than a year earlier at the top of the market -- and since then had watched the share price plunge, his personal spending lampooned, and his firm made a whipping boy in Congress. 
 Beyond those headaches, the credit crisis had all but shuttered the once high-octane private equity industry, upending the pecking order on Wall Street. Even worse, concern was mounting about whether the myriad companies that private equity had acquired and saddled with debt during the boom could survive during tighter times.
 Given all that, why would Mr. Kravis want K.K.R., perhaps the nation's most storied private equity firm, to become a publicly traded company now?
 ''The Blackstone deal has gone horribly in the marketplace, yet Henry seems unwilling to let it go,'' says Kelly DePonte, a partner at Probitas Partners in San Francisco, which helps private equity firms raise money. ''There are a lot of questions about what K.K.R. is trying to do here.''
 The decision to go public is the latest twist for a firm that helped invent an entire industry while emerging as an object of fascination after winning the battle to take over RJR Nabisco for $25 billion in 1988. The buyout became fodder for a best seller (''Barbarians at the Gate'') and an HBO movie.
 In the two decades since, K.K.R. and its principals have grown wealthy and the firm has built up a $58 billion war chest, even as its inner workings have remained a mystery to outsiders. K.K.R.'s pursuit of a public offering has opened a window into a firm struggling with success and failure, ego and greed -- and is ultimately a tale of ingenuity and desperation. 
 Surrounded by economic uncertainty, heightened competition and questions about his firm's performance, Mr. Kravis is also grappling with how to transform K.K.R. into an even bigger institution that would outlive the names on the door. By trying to tap into public markets, he is also rejecting a gospel he has routinely preached over the years: the virtues of private, rather than public, ownership.
 ''The trouble, in my opinion, with corporate America today is that everything is thought of in quarters,'' Mr. Kravis said in an interview with the American Academy of Achievement several years ago. ''Analysts push them: 'What are you going to earn this quarter?' We say to the management of companies: 'You are here today. Where do you want to be five years from now, and how are you going to get there?' ''
 The same is now being asked of Mr. Kravis. Where does he want to be five years from now, and how does he plan to get there?
 LATE last March, Mr. Kravis got on the telephone in his newly renovated 42nd floor office with sweeping views of Central Park to gather members of his brain trust for an urgent conference call. 
 On the line was George Roberts, Mr. Kravis's cousin and fellow co-founder, and Scott C. Nuttall, 35, a rising star at the firm who had interrupted his family vacation to take the call.
 Mr. Kravis, with his steely drawl, was searching for fixes to a clutch of problems bedeviling the firm. 
 The biggest challenge involved a publicly traded European affiliate that was stumbling badly, causing some investors to grow increasingly anxious. Inside and outside the firm, the affiliate's stock price -- a public proxy for the value of K.K.R.'s own secretive private equity funds -- had become an embarrassment. 
 Although K.K.R.'s longtime investors, mostly state pension funds and large institutions, had been rewarded amply since 1976 with an internal rate of return of 20.1 percent, net of fees, the firm's more recent investments had given investors pause.
 At the same time, the firm had another lingering concern: its much-ballyhooed effort to go public, a move initially planned for the previous summer, had been stymied by the credit crisis. And, given the direction of the markets, it seemed unlikely anytime soon.
 Because of securities regulations forbidding firms from talking about their operations and prospects before a public offering, Mr. Kravis and other K.K.R. principals were prohibited from commenting for this article.
 But according to people familiar with that phone call in March, Mr. Kravis and his two colleagues fruitlessly batted around a number of ideas before hitting on a possible solution: the firm could try to buy the European affiliate outright, a takeover that would allow K.K.R. to shore up the struggling unit. A takeover also offered an end-run around the I.P.O. process by allowing the firm to become listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
 For the next four months, Mr. Kravis and his partners held a series of secret meetings across the globe, code-named ''Project Colt-King,'' before surprising Wall Street with the news that the firm was going public.
 On a Sunday afternoon in late July, Mr. Kravis, stuck at his home in East Hampton because a storm had prevented his helicopter from ferrying him to Manhattan, watched the announcement of the proposed deal cross the tape. If the offering goes through as planned, it could give K.K.R. a market capitalization of $12 billion to $15 billion. 
 While Mr. Schwarzman and Blackstone had already beaten K.K.R. to the punch with an I.P.O., the offering at that point had been a resounding failure for its investors. Nonetheless, Blackstone insiders had profited handsomely and the I.P.O. had cemented the firm's reputation as private equity's new alpha dog.
 Moreover, Blackstone now had a valuable currency it could use to lure talent and make acquisitions, allowing it to diversify the firm beyond private equity into new arenas like asset management, for example. Other private equity firms, like Apollo Management, which was founded by Leon Black -- and whose office is in the same building as K.K.R.-- also were planning public listings so they could enjoy the same benefits.
 Going public is not a recent fixation for Mr. Kravis -- he began considering the idea more than five years ago, when he started to have a series of meetings with longtime K.K.R. bankers, like Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, back when he worked at Morgan Stanley. Over the years, Mr. Kravis continued to bounce the idea around with Robert Scully, a vice chairman of Morgan Stanley, and Michael Klein, a former Citigroup executive who oversaw relationships with major clients of the bank.
 Mr. Kravis and Mr. Roberts, who runs the firm's office in Menlo Park, Calif., had spoken about ''institutionalizing'' and diversifying the firm for years -- getting into real estate, infrastructure and fixed-income investments, for example. (K.K.R. recently even tried to lure Alan Schwarz, Bear Stearns's former chief executive, to the firm to help it start an advisory practice, people briefed on the discussions said, and contemplated how to buy Neuberger Berman from Lehman Brothers.)
 They were also aware that some of the early success stories in Buyout Land -- like Forstmann Little & Company and Hicks Muse -- fizzled during bad times, and they wanted to leave behind a more lasting institutional legacy.
 Going public forces private equity firms to more directly confront nagging questions that have swirled around the industry ever since K.K.R. burst into the popular imagination in the 1980s. 
 Back then, private equity firms were called ''leveraged buyout'' operators and, over time, critics became concerned that the firms -- whose goal was to privatize publicly traded companies and make them more efficient and profitable -- were instead larding takeover targets with unmanageable debt and raking in handsome fees before flipping the companies to other buyers.
 The private equity world has sought in recent years to reverse that perception, pointing to a number of deals that have benefited newly privatized companies, as well as their employees, investors and customers.
 The new, public, supersized version of private equity is a much headier mission than Mr. Kravis and Mr. Roberts, both 64, dreamed up when they left Bear Stearns to open their own shop in 1976 with their other co-founder, Jerome Kohlberg Jr. 
 After struggling to raise money in the first few years, the three men watched their business boom in the 1980s with the surge in junk-bond financing. K.K.R. quickly developed a reputation as a savvy deal maker.
 As the deals got bigger, so did Mr. Kravis's wallet and his profile in both business and Manhattan's charity circuit, where he made major donations to New York cultural and medical centers. (The current size and value of Mr. Kravis's stake in the firm is likely to remain a mystery until just ahead of the public offering.)
 Although a schism had developed among the three founders, leading to Mr. Kohlberg's departure to start his own private equity firm, K.K.R. continued to prosper. Over the next decade, Blackstone and the Carlyle Group joined the fray, shortly before K.K.R. hit its first speed bump. 
 In the late 1990s, a series of K.K.R.'s investments in businesses like Regal Cinemas went belly-up. The debacle persuaded the men to streamline K.K.R., which had grown to more than 100 people but was still being run as if it were a mom-and-pop shop. The firm reorganized according to industry groups and investment committees and set up an internal consulting practice called Capstone, which was modeled on McKinsey & Company.
 By 2004, K.K.R. was back on top. It made a series of multibillion-dollar investments. Within a couple of years it had bought businesses like Toys ''R'' Us and First Data. It also spent $45 billion to buy TXU, a Texas utility.
 UNTIL very recently, private equity could rely on investors throwing money at it. In 1998, the largest private equity fund was housed at K.K.R. and had $6.1 billion in it. Starting in 2006, K.K.R. raised buyout funds that totaled $17.6 billion, Goldman Sachs raised $20 billion and Blackstone, $21.7 billion.
 To juice returns even more, firms like K.K.R. recently began ''recapitalizing'' earlier deals, essentially adding more debt to companies in their portfolios so they could pay themselves and their investors hefty dividends before ever even having to sell them.
 ''It was leveraged recaps that were fueling the really high returns that the L.B.O. funds were showing in 2005 and 2006,'' says Colin C. Blaydon, the director of the Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship at the Tuck School of Business. 
 The frenzy around private equity in 2006 persuaded K.K.R. to make its first run at the public markets -- latching onto the idea of raising ''permanent capital,'' the holy grail of investing. Instead of going hat in hand every year to raise new investment funds, they want access to steadier financing, allowing them to make long-term investments.
 It listed an affiliate, KKR Private Equity Investors, known by its ticker symbol KPE, on Euronext, the exchange based in Amsterdam. The fund let small investors and mutual fund companies like Fidelity Investments get a piece of the action in private equity deals. 
 KPE invested in K.K.R.'s private funds and participated in several co-investments with it. (Mr. Kravis and Mr. Roberts were part of the five-member board that oversaw KPE; the firm also benefited by charging KPE various fees and expenses for its services.)
 Investors couldn't get enough. The firm planned to raise $1.5 billion through the KPE offering. In the end, it snared $5 billion.
 But just as quickly as the firm catapulted KPE's $25-a-unit I.P.O., it began to tank. 
 Within two months, the price had dropped to less than $22 a share, a decline so precipitous that virtually no other private equity firm, with the exception of Apollo Management, could pursue a similar listing. Blackstone, the Carlyle Group and other firms had planned offerings similar to KPE, but the investor reception was so chilly that they pulled back those plans. At the time, Mr. Schwarzman said K.K.R.'s offering had ''destroyed the market for anyone else.''
 After a few months, KPE stabilized. And by early last year, private equity was booming again. And Mr. Kravis seemed to be on top of the world. 
 ''The stars are aligned,'' he boasted at a meeting of Canadian private equity and venture capitalists at the time, adding that the private equity world was in its ''golden era.'' 
 And so began a parlor game: Which private equity firm would dip into the public trough first? Some bet on Mr. Kravis, others on Mr. Schwarzman and others still on David Rubenstein, the co-founder of Carlyle, who was salivating over a possible I.P.O.
 The race was on. 
 Inside K.K.R., a small group of the firm's partners was tasked with strategizing for an I.P.O. 
 Mr. Nuttall led the project, holding marathon meetings in the firm's wood-paneled conference room. They studied other I.P.O.'s, like Goldman Sachs's, debating various structures and the impact that I.P.O.'s had on cultures.
 K.K.R. also started thinking more about its public image. In an effort to burnish its reputation as a pioneer, it joined forces with the Environmental Defense Fund, a prominent advocacy group, on its deal for TXU and later asked the group to help it improve the environmental performance of the dozens of businesses it owns. And as Congress began looking at private equity's tax rates, K.K.R. retained Ken Mehlman, a lobbyist and former chairman of the Republican National Committee, to help it establish relationships in Washington and fine-tune its public image; Mr. Mehlman later joined K.K.R. as the head of public affairs. 
 Despite all of K.K.R.'s jockeying, Mr. Schwarzman made the first move. When Blackstone went public, the firm had a market capitalization of $38 billion at the end of its first day of trading. 
 Although Blackstone's shares quickly sank, K.K.R. filed its own $1.25 billion offering plan. 
 After studying Blackstone's offering line by line, according to people familiar with the discussions, K.K.R. tried in its offering to draw sharp distinctions between the two firms. One of the biggest differences? Nobody at K.K.R. would take any money out in the offering, in contrast to Mr. Schwarzman (who cashed out $677 million) and his co-founder, Pete Peterson (who took out $1.88 billion) at Blackstone. 
 Mr. Kravis even decided that all K.K.R. employees should receive shares, including secretaries and the employees in its private kitchen. The firm also put aside 20 percent of the proceeds for future employees. But the market turned sour within weeks of its filing. The collapse of two Bear Stearns hedge funds in the summer of 2007 touched off a seizure in the credit markets, which began to wreak havoc on some of K.K.R.'s own holdings.
 KKR Financial, an affiliate in which K.K.R. executives held a 12 percent stake, faced steep losses starting last summer. Struggling to come up with a way to shore up KKR Financial, Mr. Kravis and Mr. Roberts soon became aware of a growing problem with yet another affiliate, KPE.
 While not in the headlines like KKR Financial, it was clear that KPE was becoming a major headache for the firm as well. The value of units in KPE had dropped even further since its I.P.O., and K.K.R. tried every trick in the book to rescue it: encouraging more research coverage by analysts, and setting up a Web site detailing its investments to make them more transparent to outsiders concerned about performance. 
 Mr. Nuttall even took K.K.R.'s corporate jet on a round-the-world tour to meet with shareholders to help instill confidence, but the running joke inside the halls of the firm was that every time he met with an investor, the affiliate's shares fell further. 
 ''What caused the stock to go from $25 to $10 is that it was too big and I don't think they put the highest-quality deals in there,'' said a portfolio manager at a mutual fund company that owns shares of KPE but who requested anonymity because the firm has a policy against discussing individual stocks. ''And the timing could not have been worse. The fund was invested in 2006 and 2007, when valuations were at the high end of historic ranges.''
 Eventually, in an effort to rescue KPE -- and its relationship with investors -- K.K.R. decided to buy out the investors and go public. 
 ''They realized their initial flotation didn't work as well for investors, and they're buying it out and reissuing it in the United States. That's the right thing to do,'' said Christopher Ailman, the chief investment officer of the California State Teachers' Retirement System, or Calstrs.
 AS it battles a number of headwinds, K.K.R.'s biggest challenge may be whether it can convince a large pool of investors that its shares are attractive. The firm says that its public offering is for long-term investors and that it will not provide guidance about quarter-to-quarter earnings.
 So far, KPE shareholders remain skeptical of the deal; KPE shares are less than half the price of what K.K.R. says its offer for them is worth.
 It also needs to convince institutional investors, a primary source of funding, that going public will not force it to become overly focused on its stock price.
 ''One of the things we've liked about private equity is the fact that these firms have been private and that that has created a good culture within the firm -- very entrepreneurial in nature,'' says Mr. Ailman. ''I have voiced the concern that by going public, it changes the culture of these firms.''
 There are also questions about how well K.K.R.'s most recent investments are doing. 
 The bulk of K.K.R.'s recent portfolio, almost $18 billion worth, ''are investments that were made at the height of the bubble,'' said Mr. Blaydon of the Tuck School. ''For a lot of the deals done in the latter half of 2006 and the first half of 2007 they're going to be facing a challenging runway to get returns and to get returns quickly.'' 
 Despite all of these issues, Mr. Kravis has remained optimistic. In a conference call in February with KPE shareholders, Mr. Kravis dismissed criticisms that K.K.R. overpaid for assets in 2006 and 2007, noting that the firm had historically produced very strong returns for its investors. 
 In his interview at the American Academy of Achievement last year, he also pointed out that he thrives on adversity.
 ''I want people who will stand up to me,'' he said. ''People who are not afraid to say exactly what's on their minds, even though that's probably not what I want to hear. That's what I want.''
 And once K.K.R. goes public, that might be what Mr. Kravis will get. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Henry R. Kravis has been planning an I.P.O. of his private equity firm for five years. The deal is finally at hand, but the timing is baffling: the stock and credit markets are suffering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU1)
George Roberts, left, and Henry Kravis, both left Bear Stearns and formed K.K.R. in 1976 -- and saw business boom through the heyday of the L.B.O. The firm now has a $58 billion war chest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY SPECTOR)
Stephen Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, left, took his firm public. David Rubinstein had hinted that he wanted to do the same with his firm, the Carlyle Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTINE LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU10) CHART: Sharp Rise, Sharp Fall: The volume of private equity deals rose rapidly in 2006 and 2007, but has crashed in recent quarters as credit has evaporated.(Source: Thomson Reuters)(BU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WATER SPORTS (77%); DIVING (77%); OLYMPICS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (96%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (73%); KRAFT NABISCO (53%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (96%); BX (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (53%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (53%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



184 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Rival Tickets Are Redrawing Battlegrounds

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and MICHAEL COOPER; Elisabeth Bumiller, Michael Luo and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Fresh from the Republican convention, Senator John McCain's campaign sees evidence that his choice of Gov. Sarah Palin as his running mate is energizing conservatives in the battleground of Ohio while improving its chances in Pennsylvania and some Western states that Senator Barack Obama has been counting on.
 Mr. Obama's campaign intends to focus heavily on the economy, especially in light of the mounting job losses, and to keep up the effort to tie the McCain-Palin ticket to the policies of President Bush. It is banking on holding all the states Senator John Kerry won in 2004 and picking up the additional electoral votes it needs by flipping some combination of Colorado, Indiana, Iowa, Nevada, New Mexico, Ohio or Virginia into the Democratic column. 
 With just over eight weeks left until Election Day, the two sides are settling into a set of state-by-state face-offs, with an increased focus on turning out supporters and tough decisions looming about where to invest time and advertising money. 
 Aides to Mr. Obama said the campaign was preparing advertisements tailored to issues important in specific states, like ones about the auto industry in Michigan and nuclear waste in Nevada, even as the Democrats pulled back advertising in Georgia, a Republican state he had sought to put in play by registering new Democratic voters.
 Strategists say that Mr. McCain can now count on a more motivated social conservative base to help him in areas like southern Ohio, where the 2004 race was settled.
 While fortified turnout from this base is probably not enough to assure victory for Mr. McCain, strategists said, it would be very difficult for him to win without it. In that sense, Ms. Palin's presence on the ticket -- depending on how her candidacy fares under the scrutiny it is receiving -- could be vital.
 Mr. Obama has refrained from directly criticizing her, but on Saturday he shed the niceties. He said Ms. Palin embraced lawmakers' pet projects known as earmarks back home in Alaska but criticized them in her new role.
 ''She's a skillful politician, but when you've been taking all the earmarks when it's convenient and then suddenly you're the anti-earmark person, that's not change,'' Mr. Obama told a crowd in Indiana. ''Come on! Words mean something. You can't just make stuff up.''
 Some McCain campaign officials hoped that Ms. Palin, an Alaskan, can broaden the ticket's appeal in the Northwest, possibly gaining traction in states like Oregon and Washington, as well as shore up Mr. McCain's standing with social conservatives who had, up to now, been lukewarm at best about his candidacy. 
 ''Thursday morning our phones started ringing about how do we get involved, where are the phone banks, where is the literature to distribute,'' said Mike Gonidakis, executive director of Ohio Right to Life, explaining that many people had been motivated by Ms. Palin's convention speech on Wednesday night. ''It's amazing to see the attitude and enthusiasm -- especially compared with what it was about 10 days ago.''
 Mr. Obama's campaign manager, David Plouffe, said that his team was not concerned that independents and undecided women might be drawn to Ms. Palin, and that the Obama camp did not plan to run hard against her. 
 ''As the post-convention dust settles, we believe a lot of the battleground states will be close, and that this will remain a race between John McCain and Barack Obama,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''She'll be out there promoting John McCain's economic message, which is fine by us because it is so bad for middle-class voters.''
 Yet several Republican leaders, both moderates and conservatives, said they were comfortable with the economic message of their ticket, which is asserting in its advertising and campaigning that Mr. Obama would enact higher taxes and policies too liberal for most voters.
 ''Even in the face of job losses and the mortgage crisis,'' said Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, ''the core Republican message is still appealing: no higher taxes, get government off your back, cut regulations and make us more competitive.''
 McCain aides once believed that his appeal to independents might help him win a traditional Democratic state like New Jersey, and Obama aides thought their candidate's broad appeal could be a lift in traditionally Republican ones like Montana, but the emerging swing states picked by both campaigns so far resemble the Bush-Kerry map in 2004 and the Bush-Gore map in 2000.
 But Democrats say that they will still have the advantage, thinking that Mr. Bush's unpopularity, economic discontent and lingering anger over the Iraq war will make it hard for Republicans to carry all the Bush states. 
 Republicans are hoping that positioning Mr. McCain as a maverick now could help them hold the Bush states and win some like New Hampshire, which Mr. Bush lost in 2004 but where Mr. McCain is popular.
 In one indication of how Mr. McCain defines the battleground and the message he will emphasize to counter the Democratic strategy, the Republican National Committee recently bought television time in 14 states for an advertisement calling Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats ''ready to tax, ready to spend, but not ready to lead.''
 That advertisement will be shown in Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Missouri, New Mexico, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia (all Republican states in 2004 that Mr. Obama is contesting aggressively this time) and Michigan, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, (Democratic states four years ago that Mr. McCain is trying to win over).
 A sign of the shifting battlegrounds can be found in the itineraries of both campaigns. Mr. Obama on Saturday warned voters in Indiana, a state where Democratic presidential candidates seldom plant their flag, to be wary of Republicans promising change. ''Don't be fooled,'' he told several hundred people at the fairgrounds in Terre Haute. ''These are the folks who have been in charge.''
 For their part, Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin chose to remain in solid Republican territory. Thousands of enthusiastic supporters greeted them at an airport rally in Colorado Springs, where the crowd waved a sea of flags and chanted ''Sarah Palin, Sarah Palin.'' 
 Ms. Palin took on Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, Mr. Obama's running mate and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, as a personification of the status quo.
 ''When our opponent made his choice, he went for a fine man, a decent man,'' she said at the rally. ''Senator Biden can claim many chairmanships across many, many years in Washington, and certainly many friends in the Washington establishment. But even those admirers would not be able to call him an agent of change.''
 Mr. Obama chose not to participate in the public financing system for presidential campaigns, freeing him to spend unlimited amounts on his political efforts in any state.
 One indication of the Obama campaign's priorities can be found in a breakdown of how it is distributing large donations to a special fund-raising account it has set up for state parties. The breakdown, provided by an Obama fund-raiser, shows the campaign funneling money to traditional swing states like Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, but also allocating substantial sums to normally solid Republican states like North Carolina.
 Obama aides, while pulling back commercials in Georgia, are mulling new advertisements in other states that Mr. Bush carried, like Arizona and West Virginia, where the poor economy might help them somewhat.
 Both sides are intensifying their efforts in a less visible but potentially more important aspect of presidential politics: identifying their likely supporters, household by household, and ensuring that they show up to vote on Election Day.
 Mr. Obama has long been seen as having had a head start in that area, drawing on his campaign's vast army of volunteers to make phone calls, knock on doors and distribute literature.
 Mr. Plouffe said the Obama campaign had recruited thousands of neighborhood and precinct captains to concentrate on voter turnout: The campaign has seven offices in Allegheny County alone, around Pittsburgh, and has teams devoted to turning out the estimated 600,000 black residents of Florida who were registered in 2004 but did not vote.
 ''You have a lot of sporadic Democratic voting in Florida and other states in different years,'' Mr. Plouffe said, ''but we believe the clear contrast between the candidates will drive Democrats out in record numbers this year.''
 But the McCain campaign, after a slow start, is increasing its efforts as well, building on the sophisticated voter-targeting operation built for President Bush.
 Mike DuHaime, the McCain campaign's political director, said that right after Ms. Palin was chosen, more than four times as many volunteers as usual showed up, even though it was Labor Day weekend. 
 Even before the pick, he said, the campaign had stepped up its efforts: Although it made only 20,000 volunteer phone calls and knocks on doors a week two months ago, the McCain campaign made 800,000 the week before Ms. Palin was selected.
 The campaign is using technology to help identify likely voters, including having volunteers call supporters using Internet phones that can help collect data for the Republican National Committee.
 ''If the person you're calling says, 'Yes, I'm voting for Senator McCain,' you push a button on the phone and it automatically goes back to the R.N.C. database,'' Mr. DuHaime said. ''If the person says it's a wrong number, there's another button and it wipes that number out, so that nobody ever calls that again.'' 
 ''You can take all that data,'' he added, ''and analyze it, figure out things that are working and things that are not and how to allocate resources.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEMOCRATS IN INDIANA: Senator Barack Obama speaking at a town hall-style meeting on Friday at the fairgrounds in Terre Haute. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS CARLSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Senator John McCain and his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, at a rally in Colorado Springs on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Gov. Sarah Palin and Senator John McCain in Colorado, a state the Democrats hope to contest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator Barack Obama on Friday in Pennsylvania, a state the Republicans want in their column. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) CHARTS: TELEVISION ADVERTISING: Amount of money spent by the Obama and McCain campaigns, June 3 to Aug. 31. (Source: TNS Media Intelligence/Campaign Media Analysis Group) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); SARAH PALIN (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (56%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



185 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: John McCain's Energy Follies

DATELINE: The industries that create energy 

 BODY:
coal, wind, nuclear, ethanol, and, of course, oil and gas -- all clamored to be heard at the Republican convention. At cocktail receptions and in hundreds of ads, each claimed to welcome the challenge of creating a cleaner, greener energy future. 
 A lot of that was corporate boilerplate. But one advertisement, from Chevron, seemed strikingly on point. ''It took us 125 years to use the first trillion barrels of oil,'' it said. ''We'll use the next trillion in 30.'' This nicely framed a big part of the energy challenge. It was also a reminder of why John McCain is proving, so far, to be such a disappointment on issues he once seemed to understand better than almost anyone else in his party.
 The world is consuming oil at a ferocious pace because of runaway demand in India and China and because America -- the world's largest consumer -- is only beginning to confront its addiction. This cannot go on forever. Even the conservative United States Geological Survey predicts that oil production will peak by midcentury, meaning that future prices will make today's $3.70 gas look like chump change.
 Emissions from fossil fuels -- not just oil but the coal and natural gas used in power plants -- are the main drivers of global warming. Mainstream scientists have warned that unless they are sharply reduced the planet will face rising sea levels, prolonged droughts, widespread famine and other frightening consequences. 
 Global problems obviously require a global response. As the world's most profligate user of energy, and as one of its most technologically gifted nations, the United States can and should lead the way by developing more efficient vehicles and by expanding carbon-free energy sources like wind and solar power.
 The John McCain of a few years ago understood this. He sponsored a bill with John Kerry that would have aggressively raised fuel economy standards, and another that would have put a stiff price on carbon emissions to encourage investment in cleaner technologies. 
 Unfortunately, that John McCain has receded from view just in time for the presidential campaign. He has dropped his opposition to offshore drilling, pandered shamelessly by urging a gas tax holiday, and missed several crucial votes on bills extending credits for wind and solar power.
 And while his acceptance speech promised ''the most ambitious national project in decades,'' including efforts to improve energy efficiency, increasing oil production remains the centerpiece of his strategy. 
 These positions divert public attention from an unavoidable truth: a nation that uses one-quarter of the world's oil while owning only 3 percent of its reserves cannot drill its way to happiness or self-sufficiency. And they trivialize the very hard work that lies ahead.
 Mr. McCain's choice of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska as his running mate raises even more worrisome questions. Her strategy is drill here, drill there, drill now. 
 She would open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in a heartbeat -- something Mr. McCain continues to oppose. She has sued the Bush administration for declaring the polar bear a threatened species, fearing it would interfere with oil exploration in Alaskan waters. She has questioned whether humans are responsible for climate change. Governor Palin's views are alarmingly out of touch with reality. No less alarming was Mr. McCain's decision to welcome them into his campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ETHANOL (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); POWER PLANTS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (59%); FUEL TAX (58%); FAMINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



186 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Atomic Club Votes to End Restrictions On India

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA and MARK MAZZETTI; Somini Sengupta reported from New York, and Mark Mazzetti from Washington. Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Algiers, and Heather Timmons from New Delhi.

 BODY:
The worldwide body that regulates the sale of nuclear fuel and technology approved a landmark deal on Saturday to allow India to engage in nuclear trade for the first time in three decades, after a pressure campaign by the Bush administration and despite concerns about setting off an arms race in Asia.
 Only one hurdle now remains for the deal: final approval by the United States Congress. But passage is likely to be difficult, considering both political opposition and dwindling time in the Congressional calendar before November's elections. 
 If the agreement ultimately goes through, it would stand as a symbol of the deepening strategic ties between the United States and India, seen as a potential balancing power to a rising China. It would also be enormously lucrative for sellers of nuclear fuel and technology all over the world; India plans to import at least eight nuclear reactors by 2012, according to projections by the State Department. 
 State Department officials were ecstatic about the vote Saturday by the 45-nation Nuclear Suppliers Group, or N.S.G. ''I don't think a lot of people thought we'd be able to get this through the N.S.G. this weekend,'' said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who was in Algiers.
 Both President Bush and the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, have cast the nuclear agreement as a legacy issue. The White House said the two leaders spoke to each other on Saturday. 
 Indian and American proponents of the deal hailed Saturday's agreement as a historic opportunity to meet India's growing energy demands and allow New Delhi to come into what Mr. Singh called ''the nuclear mainstream.'' Its critics warned that such a sweeping exemption for India, which has developed an atomic weapons program but steadfastly refused to sign the global nonproliferation treaty, sets a dangerous precedent. 
 Several members of the N.S.G. had in recent days proposed several amendments that would terminate nuclear trade and the sale of secret technologies if India conducts more nuclear tests. The Bush administration had pressed N.S.G. members not to impose such restrictions on India. The exact terms of the agreement were unclear on Saturday night. 
 Because any agreement requires consensus among the member nations, administration officials had to lean hard on the holdouts, principally Austria, China, and New Zealand.
 Ms. Rice made at least two dozen calls over the last two days to push allies to allow for the India-specific waiver, as she traveled across North Africa, according to administration officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. They said she also called the Chinese foreign minister early Saturday morning to urge Beijing not to block the deal. 
 After three days of fierce debates in Vienna, where they met, the N.S.G. approved the accord. It allows India to buy nuclear fuel and technology for its civilian nuclear power program. India has already agreed to separate civilian reactors from those used in its strategic nuclear weapons program. It has also agreed to allow the International Atomic Energy Agency to inspect the reactors used in its energy program.
 Although a senior State Department official said the White House has only two weeks to get the deal through Congress, Ms. Rice told reporters traveling with her that she had been talking to Congressional leaders and was hopeful it could be done.
 Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an interview on Saturday that he would not consider any expedited timetable for considering the agreement until the Bush administration provides him with more information about the negotiations in Vienna.
 Mr. Berman said that he wants to check that the Bush administration did not cut any side deals with N.S.G. member countries to get their votes. He wants to ensure, for instance, that the United States did not say any countries could sell nuclear technology to India that the United States is currently prohibited from selling. 
 Ultimately, he said, the burden was on the White House to convince Congress that the nuclear pact needed to be authorized in a ''rushed'' fashion.
 Indian advocates for the deal were elated. 
 ''Most countries have realized the logic of the United States in arguing that it is better to have India inside the tent instead of treating India as an outcast,'' said Lalit Mansingh, a retired Indian ambassador to the United States. 
 Indians were celebrating Saturday night: small groups of revelers set off fireworks in honor of the deal in the nation's capital, and groups gathered to dance outside the headquarters of Mr. Singh's Congress Party.
 A deal is considered important for India's continued economic growth and increased demand for electricity. Since it conducted its first nuclear test decades ago, India has not been able to buy nuclear fuel or technology on the world market. 
 The country is now running short of uranium for existing nuclear reactors because it does not have enough of a domestic supply to feed them. India's leaders also want to substantially grow the civilian power program.
 But even in India, the deal has been dogged by intense political opposition, so much so that Mr. Singh's opponents sought to bring down his government this year over this issue. 
 They have said the agreement would impinge on India's right to advance its strategic weapons program. The United States has said that it could stop supplying nuclear fuel if India conducts a weapons test.
 On Saturday, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party assailed the deal as a ''nonproliferation trap.'' In defense, Mr. Singh's government has said India can do what it wants with its weapons program, and that if India tests another weapon, the United States can decide whether it will cut off nuclear trade. In practical terms, officials and analysts in both countries acknowledge that the United States reaction would depend, in large part, on how and when India tests. If it came on the heels of tests by Pakistan or China, New Delhi hopes that American officials might be persuaded to feel that India was facing a threat and needed to move its nuclear program forward.
 Under current law, Congress must be in session a full 30 days to consider the nuclear deal. Congressional officials said Saturday that the White House might be able to work with lawmakers to circumvent this provision and expedite a vote. 
 A potentially more significant hurdle for the White House is that a Democratic Congress might not want to give President Bush a significant victory during his waning days in office. White House officials have long hoped that the deal could be part of Mr. Bush's foreign policy legacy. 
 Lawmakers in late 2006 voted overwhelmingly to support the White House's plan to sell the civilian reactors to India, but that was when Congress was still in Republican hands. Congress granted provisional approval at that time and was required to vote again after a nod from the Nuclear Suppliers Group.
 Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat and a vocal opponent of the deal, said in a statement on Saturday that with only a few weeks left in the Congressional session, ''It is highly questionable whether such a complex and controversial agreement can be thoroughly examined before the House and Senate adjourn for the elections.''
 Still, even some opponents of the deal acknowledged that should the White House manage to force a vote in September, the pact was likely to be approved. 
 Representative Ellen O. Tauscher, a California Democrat, said by telephone on Saturday that the nuclear agreement was a ''very, very bad deal,'' but said that since the 2006 vote indicated that a large part of the House of Representatives was inclined to approve the pact and that it would be difficult to scuttle the deal at this point.
 In the end, if the deal is approved, India will be forced to decide what kind of nuclear program it aspires to develop. If it wants to be a major nuclear power in the world -- significantly increasing the country's arsenal and improving its sophistication -- India has to conduct tests sooner rather than later, and face the potential consequences, said Stephen Cohen, a South Asia specialist at Brookings Institution. 
 Or it could actively negotiate with its rivals, Pakistan and China, to negotiate what he called a ''nuclear restraint agreement.''
 ''This is the time for the Indian government to declare what kind of nuke capability they will have and negotiate with the other Asian powers to avoid a nuclear arms race,'' Mr. Cohen said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMS RACE (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR SUPPLIERS GROUP (55%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (69%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRIA (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008



187 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Some States Set Caps To Control Payday Loans

BYLINE: By BOB DRIEHAUS

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
Tracey Minda needed cash to buy clothes and school supplies for her 6-year-old son before the 2006 school year. A preschool teacher and single mother, she was broke after making her mortgage and car payments.
 The quick and easy answer was a $400 loan from a payday lender. When payment was due two weeks later, she needed another loan to keep afloat. Nine months and 18 loans later, she was hundreds of dollars in debt and paying about $120 in monthly fees from her $1,300 in wages. 
 ''Once I was in the cycle for a few months, I couldn't get out of it,'' said Ms. Minda, who was on the brink of losing her car and her home in Washington Courthouse, Ohio, before turning to family to pay off her debt. 
 Ohio lawmakers sought last spring to aid borrowers like Ms. Minda by capping annual interest rates for payday lenders at 28 percent, a sharp reduction from 391 percent. But payday lenders, which typically offer short-term loans with high fees and no credit check, are fighting back in a novel way, collecting enough signatures, once certified, to force a vote in November on a measure that could overturn legislation that established the rate cap.
 ''You can't make a payday loan cheaper than the industry does,'' said Steven Schlein, a spokesman for the Community Financial Services Association of America, which represents lenders. 
 Mr. Schlein said lenders had left other states that had recently capped rates at 36 percent or lower. ''Consumer choice has always worked best,'' he said. ''That's what drives prices down, not eliminating competition.'' 
 In Arizona, an exemption allowing payday lenders to charge 400 percent interest will expire in 2010, with the cap reverting to 36 percent. Lenders there are supporting a ballot measure in November to extend the exemption permanently. 
 The industry has grown fivefold this decade, from lending $10 billion in 2000 to $50 billion in 2007, according to Stephens Inc., a brokerage in Little Rock, Ark., which said lenders collected $8.6 billion in fees last year. 
 In 2006, Congress capped rates for payday loans at 36 percent for military personnel. Following that, Arkansas, the District of Columbia, New Hampshire and Oregon, as well as Ohio, have capped rates at 36 percent or lower.
 ''The business model is a debt trap,'' said Uriah King, a spokesman for the Center for Responsible Lending in Durham, N.C., which supports rate caps. More than 90 percent of customers are repeat borrowers, he said, and two-thirds of lenders' revenue comes from borrowers who take out a dozen loans annually.
 Mr. King said state lawmakers had been emboldened by Congress's move to protect military personnel.
 ''People are finding ways to cope without payday lending, and it's at a fraction of the cost,'' he said, like using consumer finance companies and credit unions. But the best way to avoid crunches that drive consumers to payday lenders, he said, is to build up savings of as little as $500.
 In Ohio, payday borrowers paid more than $318 million in fees annually and an average yearly interest rate of 391 percent before the new restrictions, according to a study released by the Ohio Coalition for Responsible Lending.
 ''It's like legal loan sharking,'' said Sandy Theis, a spokeswoman for a political action committee that supports the new regulations and whose honorary co-chairmen are Gov. Ted Strickland, a Democrat, and the Senate president and House speaker, both Republicans. 
 Payday lenders say they fill an important niche threatened by the new law, which has already led to 150 lending stores closing.
 ''Ohio politicians took away a financial choice that customers prefer, forcing them to use less desirable alternatives like bounced checks and credit card late fees at much higher rates,'' said Kim Norris, a spokeswoman for a group formed by the payday loan industry called Ohioans for Financial Freedom.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); REFERENDUMS (66%); BALLOTS (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: STEPHENS INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); DURHAM, NC, USA (51%) OHIO, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



188 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Summer Without Astroland?

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Depression has no place in an amusement park, but a definite pall hung over Astroland at Coney Island on Sunday, even as the screams of thrill seekers -- grade-school children, metal-mouthed teenagers and nostalgic, if slightly nauseated, grownups -- tore through the air.
 On Thursday, the park's owner, Carol Albert, announced that Sunday would be the last day for Astroland, the three-acre space-themed amusement park that has been a fixture on Coney Island's Boardwalk since 1962. Ms. Albert sounded a similar alarm last year, when it seemed that negotiations between her and the property's owner, Thor Equities, had come to a standstill, only for a deal to be worked out. The Albert family sold the land to Thor for about $30 million in 2006. 
 But this year, Ms. Albert said, Thor Equities refused to meet with her to discuss her lease, which expires Jan. 31. While Thor Equities disputed Ms. Albert's version of events, Ms. Albert insisted that at 9 p.m. on Sunday, the park's midway lights would shut off, ride by ride, game by game, for good. Twenty rides from the park are listed for sale on the Web site www.rides4u.com.
 And so, thousands of visitors poured into Astroland for what appeared to be the last time, pushing toddlers in strollers and aged relatives in wheelchairs, and taking a final look at a park that may have seen better days, but was still widely adored. Many people reminisced about their childhood days spent at Astroland, and shook their heads in disbelief that yet another vestige of old New York would be lost.
 ''The city has decided that anything that makes a buck is a good thing. We're giving up everything that makes New York wonderful,'' said John Jeannopoulos, 55, a lawyer who lives in Manhattan and began coming to Astroland soon after it opened. ''Once you take down some something like Astroland, or Disneyfy Times Square, you never get it back.'' 
 Astroland's closing would not mean the end of rides at Coney Island; the Cyclone wooden roller coaster and the Wonder Wheel, which is part of Deno's Amusement Park, are both city landmarks and will continue to operate next year. Thor Equities said it would also bring more amusement rides to the Astroland site next year. 
 The shuttering of the park would erase another attraction from the Coney Island Boardwalk, which has fallen a long way from its glory days, when it was home to attractions like Luna Park and the Steeplechase.
 But part of what made Astroland unique was its accessibility, said Charles Denson, a Coney Island historian and author of the book ''Coney Island Lost and Found.'' Rather than being an expensive, glossy and distant amusement park, Astroland was a place that was reachable by subway, a place where a visitor could shoot a water gun at a clown's mouth and win a prize, or venture on kitschy rides with names like Dante's Inferno and Break Dance that, while arguably seedy, were still loads of fun. 
 ''It wasn't Disneyland, but thank God for that,'' said Mr. Denson. ''It's open to people of small means, and it always has been.'' 
 Indeed, youngsters living near Astroland said they worried now about how they would fill their summer days and nights. 
 ''No one's going to have anywhere to hang out anymore,'' said Keyira Serrano, 14, who lives at the Coney Island Houses and said she spent every summer weekend at Astroland, usually with her younger sisters Dannierra Whitfield, 13, and Felicia Serrano, 9. ''We're not going to have nothing to do. So today we're going to have all the fun we can, while it lasts.'' 
 For the park's 350 employees, too, the future is suddenly uncertain. Some held out hope that Astroland might somehow survive, though Ms. Albert said she could not continue operating Astroland without a multiyear lease from Thor Equities, which she said the company was not willing to give. 
 Jose de la Cruz, a 40-year-old Brooklyn resident, began working at Astroland eight years ago, and has operated its Pirate Ship ride since 2003. Mr. de la Cruz has worked at amusement parks since he was 16 and dropped out of high school, after deciding that he preferred a carny's life to classrooms. 
 ''Sometimes there are drunk people, and sometimes people toss their cookies in the air -- it ain't a pretty sight and I got to clean it up,'' he said. ''But I'm going to miss it. I enjoy seeing people having fun, being so terrified and then afterwards walking off, their legs shaking, saying 'I did it.' ''
 Like most of Astroland's workers, Mr. de la Cruz plans to help dismantle its rides over the next few months. After that, he said, he would apply for unemployment insurance, and then try to get a job at another amusement park. ''This is my life,'' he said. ''It's the only thing I've ever been doing, and I'm good at it.'' 
 Other park workers said they were furious at the park's planned shutdown. ''Thor is putting 350 people out of jobs,'' said Philip Englebert, a maintenance worker. ''We all live here. We work here. What are we going to do now, in this economy?''
 Stefan Friedman, a spokesman for Thor Equities, said in a statement that the developer had been in touch with ''numerous amusement operators'' to discuss setting up ''permanent year-round development.'' The city and Joseph J. Sitt, the chairman of Thor Equities, which is now the largest landowner in the area, have yet to reach an agreement on how to redevelop Coney Island, though locals worry that the neighborhood will become awash in generic chain stores, condominiums and hotels. 
 On Sunday, Walter McCoy, a maintenance worker in his 40s, watched his niece swinging high in the Pirate Ship as it soared toward the sky, screaming with her arms aloft. Mr. McCoy's grandson Andre, 6, stood beside him. Andre was too small for the ride, and watched his cousin, enthralled. 
 Going to Astroland, Mr. McCoy said, had been a summer tradition in his family for decades. 
 ''This place lets kids trust their legs, they don't have to worry about cars, and neighborhoods are getting so rough,'' said Mr. McCoy, who lives in East New York, Brooklyn. 
 ''They're closing down a legend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nina Pulukarova, 53, enjoyed a sunny day on the Coney Island Boardwalk, where the owner of Astroland said the park would not open next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 The Cyclone, Astroland's famous roller coaster, is a city landmark and will be open next year. ((PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); WEB SITES (66%); HISTORY (60%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



189 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Agency Fights Building Code Born of 9/11

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A federal agency has joined some of the nation's biggest landlords in trying to repeal stronger safety requirements for new skyscrapers that were added to the country's most widely used building code last year, arguing that they would be too expensive to meet.
 The new provisions, which include requiring tall office buildings to have more robust fireproofing and an extra emergency stairwell, were enacted as a result of an exhaustive federal study into the collapse of the twin towers at the World Trade Center seven years ago this week.
 The General Services Administration, which serves as the federal government's property manager, is now opposing the tougher standards, even though they were based on a report by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which issues recommendations for safety standards after investigating fires and other building catastrophes. 
 ''It does not take a NIST report or a rocket scientist to figure out that requiring additional exit stairs will improve overall occupant evacuation times,'' David Frable, a General Services Administration fire safety engineer, wrote in a petition asking the International Code Council to rescind the changes, which go to a vote next week. ''The bigger question that needs to be answered is at what economic cost to society?'' 
 The dispute reflects a debate among safety officials and real estate executives nationwide as to how to respond adequately to the 2001 attacks.
 The fireproofing and stairwell requirements alone could cost real estate developers $13 million for a 42-story office building, as well as perhaps $600,000 a year in lost rent because of decreased floor space, real estate industry officials estimated. 
 Advocates of the stronger requirements questioned those figures, saying they were inflated. Regardless, they said, they are outraged at the role the federal agency is playing in the debate.
 ''It is unbelievable to me that our tax dollars are being spent to fight safety improvements,'' said Glenn P. Corbett, an associate professor of fire science at John Jay College in New York City. ''They are trying to subvert necessary change.''
 The challenges raised by Mr. Frable and building owners and architects focus on three safety standards drawn up by a code council committee that were based on recommendations in the final NIST report from 2005.
 Under the new rules, any nonresidential skyscraper over 420 feet tall, or about 40 stories, must have a third stairwell and fireproofing capable of staying in place even if hit with 1,000 pounds per square foot of force, provisions that Mr. Frable and a real estate industry group, the Building Owners and Managers Association, want repealed. As an alternative, Mr. Frable is urging that skyscrapers include specially designed elevators that can reliably operate even during a fire.
 Separately, the building owners' group has asked the organization to repeal a requirement that buildings taller than 75 feet apply glow-in-the-dark markings on stairwells as a backup if the lights go out. Such markings are credited with saving many lives on Sept. 11; they had been installed at the twin towers after the first terror attack there in 1993, even though the enhancement was not yet required by city code.
 Only a small number of new towers would be subject to all three of the contested changes. Since 2000, about 10 nonresidential towers taller than 420 feet have been completed each year in the United States, according to Emporis, a German-based database of tall buildings, compared with about 750 such buildings currently standing nationwide.
 The matter will go to a vote next week at a meeting of the code council in Minneapolis, where more than 1,000 building-code officials from around the nation will gather to adopt the 2009 version of the so-called model code, which serves as a template for 20,000 jurisdictions in all 50 states, including skyscraper cities like New York, Houston and Philadelphia. The council is a nonprofit association that was created in 1994 to try to develop a single national standard for building safety.
 The contested provisions will now be reconsidered as part of a comprehensive review of the building code, which is conducted every three years. Most jurisdictions wait for that larger overhaul before revising their own codes; as a result, few cities have adopted the tougher skyscraper standards. 
 States and cities have the option of including or excluding any provision of the model code before making it binding, and many, including New York, make such modifications. Still, the code is important because it creates a base standard that most jurisdictions try to meet.
 Historically, tall buildings have not been designed to anticipate a complete evacuation, because even during an office fire generally only the several floors immediately near it are cleared. Fireproofing was also not traditionally designed with enough adhesive strength to ensure that it would stick to steel in the event of an explosion or another unexpected stress. 
 But dislodged fireproofing was blamed in part by federal investigators for the collapse of the twin towers. And the flow of firefighters climbing the stairs as office workers were leaving created traffic jams, the investigators found.
 Jake Pauls, a code consultant specializing in stairwell safety, said he understood that the World Trade Center was a singular event. But calamities do happen -- be it a terrorist attack, a blackout, an earthquake -- and skyscrapers often do not have sufficient systems to protect occupants or allow them to rapidly and safely evacuate, he said.
 Mr. Pauls said he believed that a bias against regulation was wrongly driving the effort to repeal the tougher standards.
 ''It is basically a political game that is being played here,'' Mr. Pauls said. ''And I find it appalling.''
 But Mr. Frable of the General Services Administration and other real estate officials who have joined him in challenging the new standards rejected that charge, saying they were trying to counteract an emotional reaction to the 2001 attacks that has led to unrealistic and unnecessary new building standards.
 They argue that office buildings are extremely safe, citing statistics from the National Fire Protection Association that show an average of one civilian a year died in office building fires nationwide from 2000 to 2004, excluding the Sept. 11 attacks.
 ''What we have had here are knee-jerk reactions without any indication that they are going to do any good,'' said Ron Burton, a vice president of the Building Owners and Managers Association, whose members control nine billion square feet of office space in North America.
 The costs associated with these new requirements are so significant that if major cities around the United States enact them, it could slow skyscraper construction nationwide, real estate executives predicted.
 ''We put up buildings to make a profit,'' Mr. Burton said. ''If the numbers don't work, it won't happen.''
 S. Shyam Sunder, who led the $16 million investigation into the World Trade Center collapse for the standards institute, said he would be in Minneapolis urging the council to honor the recommendations in his report.
 ''Everything is more complicated when an emergency happens in a skyscraper,'' he said. ''So you want to have more safeguards in taller buildings.''
 The federal government itself is technically exempt from local building codes. But the General Services Administration, which has 352 million rentable square feet in 8,600 properties nationwide, generally requires that buildings it rents or buys honor building codes. Mr. Frable said that his opposition to the stairwell and fireproofing standards did not come from a directive from the White House or anywhere else in the administration.
 Building officials in Chicago and New York declined in interviews to predict whether they would adopt the stairwell and fireproofing requirements if they remained in the revised model code. New York is required by law to consider the revisions, said James P. Colgate, executive architect at the New York City Department of Buildings. 
 New York was the first large city to require the luminous marking on stairwells, even before it became part of the model code. More than 1,500 buildings now have the markings, and the city has no plans to rescind that requirement, Mr. Colgate said. 
 ''If everything works the way it is supposed to, then it is not necessary,'' Mr. Colgate said. ''But in emergencies, we know that generators fail and electrical systems quite often do not work the way they are supposed to.''
 New York has demonstrated mixed emotions over tougher building standards. After the Sept. 11 attacks, city officials declined to require wider stairwells in skyscrapers, as some safety advocates had urged. But at several of the towers built since 2001, including the Bank of America building near Times Square and 7 World Trade Center near where the twin towers stood, the developers have decided on their own to include either additional stairwells or wider ones.
 Gary Lewis, a construction official from Summit, N.J., who is the chairman of an International Code Council committee that translated the NIST recommendations into the specific proposed code changes, said the meeting was an important test of the integrity of the national building code system.
 ''We want buildings that stand long enough for people to get out and stairs that allow people to get out quickly,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''If we reverse any of those improvements, we are not learning from the lessons of Sept. 11.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new 7 World Trade Center building has wider emergency stairwells and a fire-resistant area on each of its 52 floors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The 54-story Bank of America building near Times Square is in its final stages of completion and also has extra safety features.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (88%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FIRES (68%); PETITIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (83%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



190 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: The Riders Pay

 BODY:
New York City's mass-transit system is deteriorating and desperately underfunded. The politicians know this, but they are still providing far too little in the way of financing. The result is that the system's users, many of them already suffering from tough economic times, could be stuck with the bill. 
 Neither the city nor the state is paying its fair share, despite what they claim. With the Metropolitan Transportation Authority facing a budget gap of nearly $1 billion next year, direct subsidies from both governments last year totaled about $600 million, not much more than what they were a decade ago, according to the nonpartisan Independent Budget Office. Adjusted for inflation, subsidies have actually declined, saddling riders with an ever-increasing burden. 
 The main problem is that New York's state legislators have failed to put a dependable source of financing -- like congestion pricing -- in place. Transit has been forced to rely on fluctuating taxes from real estate and other sources and, increasingly, rising fares. 
 A one-two punch of back-to-back fare hikes and reduced service seems likely if New York's elected leaders don't approve significant new subsidies or a solid revenue-generating plan.
 The M.T.A. has said it needs the city and state together to contribute an additional $300 million next year. State lawmakers say they are awaiting the recommendations of a commission led by Richard Ravitch, expected after the November elections. Mayor Michael Bloomberg insists that the city has already done its part, contributing $1.2 billion last year.
 But Mr. Bloomberg gets to his $1.2 billion figure by including not only the city's direct subsidies, which are what really matters, but also an assortment of other kinds of payments that do not directly benefit the M.T.A. They include $344 million in interest payments on money the city borrowed for previous transit aid. 
 A safe, clean and reliable mass-transit system is not only environmentally sound; it is also essential to New York's economy. We know the city and state have their own huge, looming budget gaps. But both need to dig deeper to keep mass transit moving. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



191 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae, Freddie and You: What It Means to the Public

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER. 
Report your housing crisis to rlieber@nytimes.com

 BODY:
So what does the federal takeover of two mortgage finance giants mean to consumers?
 Mortgage rates may fall a bit initially but probably not enough to halt the decline in home prices anytime soon. Some delinquent borrowers may have a better shot at modifying their loans and ending up with lower fixed payments. And the rules on new mortgages could slightly change. 
 Oh, and the federal government will help pay for it all, using your tax money. 
 These themes emerged over the weekend as mortgage specialists wrinkled their foreheads to determine what the federal bailout of the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will mean for consumers. They cautioned, however, that the unprecedented nature of the rescue makes it hard to know all of the ramifications immediately. 
 So first, what happened here, and why? In order to provide capital to banks that lend money to aspiring homeowners, Fannie and Freddie need to be able to sell the mortgages, packaged as securities, to investors around the world once the two companies have bought the loans from the banks. 
 All this worked fine until foreign investors got nervous about the housing market and the uncertainty over how a theoretical federal takeover might affect their holdings. When concerns emerged about the viability of Fannie and Freddie, the government thought it had no choice but to step in and take over.
 Here's what could happen next:
 MORTGAGE RATES If you already have a fixed-rate mortgage, nothing will change, except perhaps for a rising feeling of righteous indignation that you as a taxpayer are footing the bill for the mistakes of borrowers who got in over their heads and the lenders who let them. 
 If you are thinking of buying a home or refinancing a mortgage, the emerging consensus is that the government takeover will help stabilize rates. They might even fall a quarter of a percentage point or so, now that the government has stepped in to make its backing of Fannie and Freddie more explicit, said Kevin Iverson, who has been in the mortgage business for 30 years and is president of Reed Mortgage Corporation, a loan brokerage firm in Denver. 
 John A. Courson, chief operating officer of the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade group, also pointed with relief to the statement by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., on Sunday morning that Fannie and Freddie would examine the fees they charge banks for loan securitization services, ''with an eye toward mortgage affordability.'' 
 Any reduction in those fees, Mr. Courson said, could help bring mortgage rates down a bit if the banks pass on the lower costs to consumers. 
 HOME PRICES Rates certainly matter in persuading people on the sidelines to step in and start shopping for a home, so any stabilization there can only help. 
 The overall mood in the market is also a factor, but the front-page headlines noting the government's move may not resonate with home buyers. ''I would love it if people thought that way, but they don't connect the dots like that,'' said Steve Heideman, president of United Mortgage Financial Group, a mortgage brokerage firm in Tempe, Ariz. 
 The biggest factor weighing on home prices, aside from the overall jobs picture and the state of the economy, may now be the sheer number of homes for sale, as people try to get out from under bad mortgages or their lenders put homes on the market, having already foreclosed on them.
 NEW DEALS ON OLD LOANS ''The government doesn't have a great deal of interest in foreclosing on a ton of homes,'' said Kurt Eggert, a law professor at Chapman University in Orange, Calif., and a former member of the Federal Reserve Board's Consumer Advisory Council. As an example, he pointed to IndyMac, which was seized in July. Soon after, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation began offering troubled borrowers the opportunity to move into cheaper fixed-rate loans.
 Could a similar move happen here? Well, both Fannie and Freddie have already provided additional financial incentives to the companies that service the loans to modify some of the troubled ones. It remains to be seen how much further they can or will go to bail out homeowners, or what sort of political pressure may be put on them to do so. 
 NEW RULES ON NEW LOANS The interest rate you pay for a mortgage depends in part on the rules that Fannie and Freddie set for the kinds of loans they will buy. Now that they have new bosses in the federal government, the rules could change.
 ''How much authority will they have to make changes?'' asked Mr. Iverson, the Denver mortgage broker. ''Must they go to Congress? It's a huge unknown for consumers.'' 
 Mr. Courson, of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said that in theory at least, credit score requirements, loan-size-to-home-value ratios and down payment requirements could come up for review. 
 We may not know if the loan rules will change for a few months, given the potential desire to push off some of the tough decisions until after the November elections. 
 INVESTORS While it is not yet clear whether stockholders in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will be wiped out entirely, Mr. Paulson did say on Sunday that the entities ''will no longer be managed with a strategy to maximize common shareholder returns.'' 
 The drop in their share prices thus far offers another lesson in the importance of diversification. If you invest in mutual funds, those funds may have lost a bit of money on Fannie and Freddie. But that is the whole point; it was just a bit, because most funds hold many securities. 
 It is now clearer than ever that there is no such thing as a truly safe single investment -- not a big savings account at IndyMac, not the auction-rate securities that have caused so many problems for scores of investors and not supposed blue-chip stocks like Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac that you might buy on your own, outside of a mutual fund. 
 Any big, focused bets are better left for hedge funds, not for you and me. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bank-owned house in Moreno Valley, Calif. The decline in home prices is likely to continue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); SECURITIZATION (73%); LOAN BROKERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



192 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: The Dilemma Of Fannie And Freddie

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other.
 -- Matthew 6:24
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were intended to serve at least two masters -- the investors who put up capital and a government that wanted to help the housing industry and extend home ownership. In the end, they failed to serve either one very well.
 The government tried to navigate a narrow line, aimed at allowing Fannie and Freddie, as government-sponsored enterprises, to borrow at low interest rates through implicit government backing, while publicly criticizing what the Treasury Department earlier this year called ''the financial markets' misperception that G.S.E.'s are backed by the federal government.''
 Now, with its rescue plan, the government hopes that perception will return to financial markets that have grown dubious. 
 Remarkably, the country that prides itself on being the beacon of free enterprise finds itself with a financial system that needs government money to finance the most important asset most Americans will ever own. 
 There have been bailouts before, but none that seemed more crucial than that of Fannie and Freddie. The housing boom and bust have left them virtually the only sources of large amounts of money for home loans in the country.
 The steps announced Sunday stop just short of full nationalization of Fannie and Freddie. The companies' common and preferred shares will remain outstanding, but will be junior to new preferred shares that the government will receive. 
 The Treasury will get $1 billion in preferred shares in each institution -- and with it $100 million a year in dividends -- and can get a 79.9 percent stake in each company, without putting up any money. The existing common and preferred shares are unlikely to have much if any value for a long period of time, if ever.
 The government has tried before to restore faith in Fannie and Freddie, but the passage in July of the law that made the actions on Sunday possible did not have the desired effect. 
 The companies still had to pay more to borrow than they used to pay, and investors began to doubt whether their enormously complicated financial statements might be concealing larger problems.
 Fannie and Freddie will now be able to borrow directly from the Treasury, if they need to. In addition, the Treasury will buy mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie and Freddie, and the Treasury will buy more preferred stock if needed to keep the companies solvent. If all goes as hoped, the value of existing bonds issued by the enterprises will rise, providing profits to banks and others that own them. But owners of the common and preferred shares, including some banks, will suffer losses.
 It was during the long housing boom that the seeds of destruction were sowed for Fannie and Freddie. They appeared to be very profitable, so pressures mounted for them to find ways to finance housing for poorer Americans, often living in areas where banks had historically been hesitant to lend. Congress set goals for such lending.
 At the same time, the private mortgage industry was becoming more and more reckless in its own lending -- in part because the lenders were selling the home loans as soon as they were made, and therefore had less reason to care if the loans were repaid. 
 As those standards deteriorated, there was pressure on Fannie and Freddie to relax their own standards, both to remain competitive and to meet the Congressional goals. In some cases, the goals were met by buying subprime mortgage securities sold by private lenders. 
 Wall Street had convinced itself that even very risky loans would not produce large losses. Most homeowners would meet their payments, and foreclosed homes would still be valuable. The securities were structured so that most of them received super-safe AAA ratings from the bond rating agencies. 
 Initial losses, if any, would go to securities that were less senior, making it virtually impossible for AAA-rated securities to face losses. To provide belt-and-suspenders protection, many of the securities were also guaranteed by private insurance firms.
 In the current housing bust, all the assumptions have proved wrong. Home prices have fallen in much of the country, not just in a few markets, and they have fallen further than the bond rating agencies thought possible. The private bond insurers are in trouble. Buyers of the mortgage securities fled, and the securities now trade at far below face value. Bankers insist those values are ridiculously low, but they are not buying.
 The private mortgage securitization market is dead. If banks make home loans that will not be purchased by Fannie or Freddie, or guaranteed by the government in some other way, such as the Federal Housing Administration, the banks must hold them on their own books until they are repaid. Banks are reluctant to do that.
 In recent months, Fannie and Freddie raised the fees they charged to purchase or guarantee loans. That raised the cost of mortgages, and angered some banks. But the increases were seen as necessary, given the increased borrowing costs for Fannie and Freddie. That is one reason mortgage rates have not fallen in line with other interest rates.
 Now the new managers of Fannie and Freddie will have to decide how they want to run enterprises controlled by the government. Lowering fees and buying large numbers of mortgages would serve as an economic stimulus, but could increase the ultimate cost to the government if the housing market gets worse. Raising fees, and being cautious in lending, could prolong the housing slump. Being generous in restructuring loans could help borrowers, but cost the enterprises money.
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary and former chief executive of Goldman Sachs, tried to assure the public that the enterprises would follow both courses, an indication that the need to serve multiple masters remains. On one side, he promised that ''the primary mission of these enterprises now will be to proactively work to increase the availability of mortgage finance, including by examining the guaranty fee structure with an eye toward mortgage affordability.'' 
 On the other side, he said Fannie and Freddie ''will no longer be managed with a strategy to maximize common shareholder returns, a strategy which historically encouraged risk-taking.'' 
 It may not be easy to take less risk while lending more and charging lower fees.
 Many in the Bush administration questioned the need for government-sponsored enterprises long before this crisis began, and called for efforts to restrain their growth. Those efforts were largely abandoned as the crisis grew, and this plan again seeks to have it both ways. 
 In the near term, Fannie and Freddie will be encouraged to grow, to help the housing market and economy recover. But beginning in 2010, after a new president has taken office, Fannie and Freddie will have to become smaller each year.
 By then, perhaps Congress will have confronted the contradictions inherent in the business model of the enterprises. 
 ''The new Congress and the next administration must decide what role government in general, and these entities in particular, should play in the housing market,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''Government support needs to be either explicit or nonexistent, and structured to resolve the conflict between public and private purposes.''
 How can that be done? Mr. Paulson says he will offer his ideas later.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); COMMON STOCK (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); NEW ISSUES (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



193 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Palestinians Get 2nd Try In Terror Suit, But at a Price

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
When a Palestinian gunman burst into a bat mitzvah celebration in northern Israel in 2002, killing 6 people and wounding more than 30, the attack sparked anger and despair, and military retaliation by Israel. It also prompted a lawsuit in New York, which has taken an unusual turn.
The family of the sole American, Aharon Ellis, killed in the attack, charged the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority with orchestrating the shooting that killed him. The suit was brought under a law that allows American victims of international terrorism to sue for triple damages in federal court.
A federal judge awarded the family a default judgment of $192.7 million in damages after the P.L.O. and the Palestinian Authority refused to defend the suit on the merits.
But now the Palestinians, holding themselves out as a partner in the Middle East peace process, have changed lawyers, and asked the judge for a second chance. The judge, Victor Marrero of Federal District Court in Manhattan, has agreed to set aside the judgment and give them that chance. 
But there's a catch. He is requiring the Palestinians to post a bond of $192.7 million so that if they lose again, the damages would be paid.
The new defense lawyers have proposed a bond of $15 million, saying that their clients cannot afford $192.7 million, which they said was nearly 10 percent of the annual budget of the entire Palestinian Authority. The defendants ''are teetering on the verge of bankruptcy,'' they said in court papers.
And so the case has veered for now into a detailed discussion and examination of Palestinian finances. But should those matters be resolved, the suit stemming from the 2002 rampage may be heard and defended in Judge Marrero's courtroom, thousands of miles from the scene of the attack.
The defense lawyers have filed affidavits from Salam Fayyad, prime minister in the government of the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, citing a financial crisis caused by international embargos on foreign aid, a withholding of payments by Israel and restrictions on trade and movement in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
The lawyer for Mr. Ellis's family, David J. Strachman, has opposed any reduction in the bond, telling the court he believes the defendants are misleading the court and concealing property like valuable bank accounts that were once controlled by the P.L.O. chairman Yasir Arafat, who died in 2004.
''We think we can prove that there are hundreds of millions of dollars that are available in assets by both of these defendants,'' Mr. Strachman said.
The court, which has not yet ruled on whether to reduce the bond, ordered the Palestinians to provide the family with a fuller accounting of properties and bank accounts. Late last month, the defendants filed new financial documents with the court.
Richard A. Hibey, a lawyer for the Palestinian defendants, has told the court that the documents will show how ''this utterly insolvent, destitute operation runs.''
Neither Mr. Hibey nor Mr. Strachman would comment publicly. But legal experts said the case shows how hard it can be for victims of international terrorism to recover damages in the civil courts, even where there is a law passed on their behalf.
''Civil litigation, even in normal circumstances, is time-consuming, expensive, and you certainly can't be certain of victory,'' said John F. Murphy, a Villanova University law professor. ''That kind of problem is exacerbated in the terrorist context.''
Professor Murphy estimated that there had been a few dozen cases under the law, which was passed in the early 1990s after the murder of Leon Klinghoffer in a Palestinian hijacking of the cruise ship Achille Lauro. Another expert, Beth Van Schaack, an associate law professor at Santa Clara University, said that the legal process, if the Palestinians do participate fully, could allow an inquiry into Palestinian finances, and whether money went to support terrorism.
''The Abbas administration has gotten themselves in a little bit of a bind,'' Professor Van Schaack said. ''If they are claiming, 'We can't put up the bond because we don't have the money,' '' she said, ''that opens the door to do some level of discovery about money.''
Mr. Ellis, 31, was born in Israel to American parents who moved there to help found a religious community for the African Hebrew Israelites. Mr. Ellis was trying to build a life for his family, court records show, performing as a singer in hotels and clubs, at weddings and other celebrations.
The attack occurred the night of Jan. 17, 2002, as he was performing before about 180 guests at the David's Palace banquet hall in Hadera, where a girl was celebrating her bat mitzvah.
The gunman, Abdul Salaam Sadek Hassouneh, identified in court filings as a Palestinian Authority security officer, entered and opened fire on the crowd. Another singer later testified that Mr. Ellis had protected her from the bullets by pushing her down and laying on her, even after he had been shot. Mr. Hassouneh was eventually shot dead by police officers.
The lawsuit argued that the P.L.O. and the Palestinian Authority assisted in the planning and carrying out of the attack.
The defendants' original lawyer, Ramsey Clark, a former United States attorney general who has made a second career out of representing unpopular defendants, tried unsuccessfully to have the suit dismissed.
Later, in 2005, he wrote to Judge Marrero, saying that his clients had instructed him ''to present only their position that U.S. courts have no jurisdiction over them and not to answer on the merits.''
After Judge Marrero ordered the default judgment, a magistrate judge held an emotional hearing to establish damages for the economic loss and pain and suffering that Mr. Ellis's death had caused. The defendants did not participate.
In 2006, the family was awarded damages of $192.7 million.
In March, when Judge Marrero agreed to give the defendants another chance if they posted the bond and complied with other conditions, he cited their arguments that they had undergone significant changes in political leadership and, as a result, had adjusted their legal strategies.
Mr. Abbas, for example, had written to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, asking for guidance in handling the case and other pending lawsuits.
''I encourage you, as I would any government, to respond to U.S. legal proceedings in good faith and a timely manner,'' Ms. Rice responded in January 2007.
The judge noted that the Palestinians had new lawyers who had ''a clear directive'' to participate fully in the litigation. He also noted that the defendants were prepared to defend the suit in court, arguing that the gunman acted alone, without their direction or assistance.
In ordering the bond and other conditions, the judge cited concerns about the defendants' record of defaulting on judgments and not participating in the court process.
The filing of financial records late last month followed extensive debate over whether the defendants were providing a clear picture of their assets, as requested by the plaintiffs.
Mr. Strachman argued in court papers that the descriptions of Palestinian finances had been ''woefully incomplete and frankly disingenuous.''
''The issue is: What assets do they have?'' he told the court in July.
The defense lawyers, Mr. Hibey and Mark J. Rochon, who have denied those assertions, have said that the financial crisis was real. ''It is not an overstatement,'' they wrote, ''to say that the current bond requirement would force defendants to choose between their ongoing viability and defending themselves in this case.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Palestinian officials are accused of planning a deadly attack by Abdel Salaam Sadek Hassouneh, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); DAMAGES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); TESTIMONY (75%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); PEACE PROCESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



194 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Finance Chief To Lead Freddie Mac

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
David M. Moffett, who was appointed chief executive of Freddie Mac on Sunday, helped transform U.S. Bancorp from a small Ohio bank into the nation's sixth biggest lender. 
 Mr. Moffett, 56, brings a deep knowledge of the banking industry and strong relationships on Wall Street.
 ''This job is all about interest rate risk and credit risk, and he has been analyzing that all his life,'' said a longtime banker, Edward J. Kelly III. 
 Although he is virtually unknown outside banking circles, Mr. Moffett is highly regarded on Wall Street. Alongside Jerry A. Grundhofer, he helped transform the Star Banc Corporation, a small Cincinnati lender, into a Midwestern banking powerhouse through acquisitions in the late 1990s. U.S. Bancorp's efficient operations and solid results have helped it stand out among many of its peers in the recent credit crisis.
 Mr. Moffett served as U.S. Bancorp's finance chief for nearly 14 years, overseeing financial reporting, treasury operations and real estate functions, as well as the asset and wealth management group. He left the bank in 2007 after he was passed over for the top job. He collected more than $29.3 million in salary, bonus and stock compensation from 1998 to 2007, the last period for which data are available.
 Mr. Moffett had been working since then as a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, a big private equity firm in Washington. He also serves as a director on several high-profile boards, including those of eBay, E. W. Scripps and MBIA, the troubled bond insurance company. It is unclear if Mr. Moffett's new job will require him to give up any of those positions.
 Mr. Moffett is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma and holds an M.B.A. from Southern Methodist University. He is married to Lori Appelbaum, a former banking analyst at Goldman Sachs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); STAR BANC CORP (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (54%)

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



195 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Bargain Hunters With Deep Pockets

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
From September 2006 to last April, club stores like Sam's Club and Costco experienced a big increase in shoppers, particularly more affluent ones. The number of people visiting such stores grew three times as fast the adult population of the United States, according to figures recently released by Mediamark Research, a market research company, which asked about 26,000 adults whether they had visited a club store within the preceding six months. 
 Much of the growth came from high-income households, whose members may be finding bargain prices more attractive amid the lingering economic downturn. Club stores had an 11.9 percent jump in shoppers with household incomes above $75,000, who now make up just under half of their visitors, according to the Mediamark figures.
 ''My guess is that lower-income people were already shopping at club stores, and the economy has made people who are more affluent shop there, too,'' said Kathi Love, the president of Mediamark.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHARTS: 1.2%: Growth in the adult population in the United States, September 2006-April 2008
 3.6%: Increase in the number of club store shoppers during that period 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (93%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); AFFLUENT MARKET (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); STATISTICS (87%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%)

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



196 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Magazines Assert Their Power to Sell

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AS advertising spending in magazines continues to decline, publishers are intensifying their search for revenue from marketers.
 The trade association for the industry, the Magazine Publishers of America, is scheduled to introduce an assertive campaign on Monday that promotes the power of its publications to move merchandise. The campaign, by a boutique agency in New York named Toy, carries the theme ''Under the influence of magazines.''
 The campaign comprises print and online advertisements as well as information on a Web site (magfacts.org). The goal is to show that advertising in magazines encourages consumers to consider buying products -- a phenomenon known as purchase intent -- and stimulates them to go online to shop or to learn more about items they might want to buy. 
 ''What better time to tell the magazine story than when marketers are looking for results?'' asked Nina B. Link, president and chief executive at the association in New York.
 Because the economy ''is no laughing matter,'' she added, advertisers and agencies are more likely to consider appeals to their economic well-being -- if backed by facts.
 The campaign offers ''third-party, independent research'' on the power of magazine advertising, Ms. Link said, ''none of it commissioned or paid for by us.''
 The research covers categories like packaged goods, which already have large budgets for magazine ads, as well as categories like automobiles, whose makers have slashed spending on magazine ads because of their economic woes.
 In the first quarter of 2008, according to the Publishers Information Bureau, an affiliate of the association, the number of magazine ad pages dropped off 6.4 percent compared with the same period of 2007, then fell 8.2 percent in the second quarter compared with the second quarter of last year.
 The combined decline for the first half was 7.4 percent from the same period of 2007.
 Of course, the tumult in the stock and real estate markets is affecting other media as well. Ad revenue for newspapers, for instance, is falling much faster than that of magazines, and even the rate of growth of online advertising has been slowing.
 But that is not much consolation for the employees of magazines like Blueprint, Golf for Women, Home, House & Garden, Quick & Simple and Stuff, which were all recently closed or announced plans to stop publishing.
 ''We feel magazines are holding their own, relative to where the economy is,'' Ms. Link said. ''Many categories that are down -- home, apparel, auto -- are affected by the economy.''
 Data compiled by the association, based on figures from TNS Media Intelligence, indicates that consumer magazines have increased their share of total ad spending, to 18.4 percent in 2007 from 16.5 percent in 2004.
 One reason, the association believes, is a decision in 2005 to form the Magazine Marketing Coalition, which is sponsoring a three-year effort to make a case for buying ad pages in magazines.
 The first such campaign, created by the New York office of Fallon Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, sought to dispel qualms about the place of magazines in a digital world. The ads were designed to look like the covers of magazines published in 2105, sending a message that the medium has a future.
 After Fallon closed its New York office, the association turned in 2006 to Mullen, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies based in Wenham, Mass., for a campaign that celebrated magazines because they engage readers with ''ideas that live beyond the page.''
 That idea was expressed in a novel manner: The ads were designed as if they had been ripped or torn from the magazines in which they appeared.
 After two years of that campaign, the association turned to Toy, whose founding partners had led the Fallon New York office before it closed.
 ''We wanted to work with a New York agency,'' Ms. Link said, ''and we're working again with this team we loved before.''
 The team is composed of Anne Bologna, chief executive at Toy, and Ari Merkin, chief creative officer. They chose to express the theme of ''Under the influence of magazines'' in a humorous fashion by showing the exaggerated consequences of what could happen when consumers act on magazine ads.
 In one ad, a woman is surrounded by enough cartons of Haagen-Dazs ice cream to stock a supermarket freezer case. She has a look on her face suggesting, to paraphrase a line from an old commercial for Alka-Seltzer, that she can't believe she bought the whole thing.
 The text reads: ''Magazine ads. No. 1 in driving purchase intent of packaged goods. See why at magfacts.org.''
 Mr. Merkin said he would describe the tongue-in-cheek look of the campaign as ''the morning-after effect: 'What did I do last night?' ''
 ''It's done to make the point that magazines have a powerful influence on people,'' he added.
 The campaign is to appear in trade publications like Advertising Age, Adweek, Brandweek and Mediaweek as well as on Web sites that include adage.com, adforum.com, adweek.com, brandweek.com, nytimes.com and wsj.com. The budget for the rest of the year is estimated at more than $1 million.
 The campaign will also run in ad pages to be donated by magazines that are members of the association.
 To underline the power of magazine ads, Ms. Bologna said, the three brands featured in the first stage of the campaign -- Adidas footwear; Haagen-Dazs, owned by Nestle; and Mini Cooper, part of BMW -- ''are all winners of Kelly Awards.''
 Those awards are presented annually by the association to campaigns deemed to demonstrate how creativity can bolster the effectiveness of magazine ads.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An ad promoting the idea that readers will buy what is advertised. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PURCHASE INTENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); STATISTICS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); GOLF (61%)

COMPANY: PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



197 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: A Sigh of Relief, but Hard Questions Remain on U.S. Economy

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Investors around the world breathed a sigh of relief on Sunday after the federal government took over and backed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, assuring a continued flow of credit through America's wounded mortgage system. 
 But the takeover of the companies reinforced concerns about troubles of the American economy and highlighted its significant reliance on foreign investors, particularly in Asia. 
 Almost immediately, the move will protect central banks in Asia, which have amassed hundreds of billions of dollars of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bonds, from taking big losses. The move should also bode well for American financial institutions and, in the short term, the broader stock market. 
 As policy makers looked to the start of trading in Asia on Monday, investors said they expected the spread between Treasury securities and comparable Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt to shrink drastically, reflecting renewed faith about the safety of the market.
 In recent months that spread, or premium, had ballooned significantly, eroding confidence in the health of the companies. Before the housing crisis, Fannie and Freddie could borrow money at a small premium over the federal government's rates. ''If it becomes like U.S. Treasuries, that is a positive for Asia,'' said Ifzal Ali, the chief economist of the Asian Development Bank in Manila.
 Treasury's purchase of mortgage securities may help lower interest rates on home loans, which this summer rose to their highest level in a year. That reduction in housing costs should help cushion the decline in home prices, which have already fallen more than 18 percent from their peak in the summer of 2006, said Bill Gross, the co-chief investment officer of Pimco, the large bond investment firm.
 ''It goes a long way to stopping this housing deflation which, I think and Pimco thinks, is at the heart of the problem,'' he said.
 But the plan also raises a host of questions about the fragility of the American economy, which will continue to figure into investor calculations. On Friday, for instance, the Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate climbed to a five-year high of 6.1 percent.
 Perhaps most important, despite the government support for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, any stabilization in home prices is still a way off, and the waves of foreclosures battering the housing market are not likely to reverse right away. What is more, the plan will do little to stem losses in risky home loans, commercial mortgages and debt used by private equity firms to acquire companies. Financial institutions have already taken write-downs of $500 billion and the International Monetary Fund projects that losses could reach $1 trillion. 
 ''It's a good half a plan, but its still just half a plan,'' said Joseph Mason, a finance professor at Louisiana State University, who cautioned that the government needed to outline its longer-range plan for the two companies and the credit markets to restore greater confidence to markets. 
 Yet for foreign investors, particularly in Asia, the takeover will do little to assuage mounting fears that the economic problems in the United States are not only far from over, but could also hurt growth in China, India and other emerging economies.
 ''People don't know about the depth of the problem,'' Mr. Ali said. 
 Asian central banks, particularly the People's Bank of China, have emerged over the last several years as important buyers of bonds from the two American government-sponsored enterprises.
 Standard & Poor's estimates that the People's Bank of China held $340 billion of these agency securities at the end of June, but has been unable to estimate Asian holdings over all because the data is too unclear.
 While central banks around the world have historically accounted for a quarter of purchases of Freddie Mac debt, their share rose to 37 percent for debt issued since 2006, according to an analysis of the latest available data by CreditSights that was released on Wednesday. The bulk of those purchases appear to have been by Asian central banks, which have been buying dollar-denominated securities at a record pace to slow their currencies' rise against the dollar and thus preserve the competitiveness of their exports. 
 Still, Asian central banks are likely to remain major buyers of mortgage securities. That is because they must reinvest dollars earned from exports to the United States, said Daniel Alpert, a managing director at Westwood Capital, an investment bank in New York. The Treasury backing of the debt will serve to make the bonds more attractive, he said. 
 ''The money that they have been giving us as basically a gift will come back to them,'' Mr. Alpert said, referring to the Asian investments in the securities. ''They should be quite pleased.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, the Treasury secretary, and James B. Lockhart of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, at a news conference on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: New Leadership, Same Roles: Under the Treasury's plan, the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the market will not change in the short term. The government will provide capital and buy mortgage-backed securities as needed. (Sources: Fannie Mae
Freddie Mac
 Treasury)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); BONDS (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); DEFLATION (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (67%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (59%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



198 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 182 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC SIGNALS Reports this week will provide a broad look at the state of the economy.
 They will include consumer credit for July (Monday); pending home sales for July and wholesale inventories for July (Tuesday); trade deficit for July and import prices for August (Thursday); and the Producer Price Index for August, retail sales, the Reuters-University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey and business inventories for July (Friday). 
 COMPANY EARNINGS It is a quiet week for earnings, with only one major company, Campbell Soup, reporting, on Thursday.
 TRADE DELIBERATIONS The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets in Vienna to discuss possible production cuts (Tuesday).
 The Doha round of world trade talks resumes in Geneva (Tuesday).
 THE REGULATORS The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks in Washington about education, at the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities (Tuesday).
 A Fed governor, Donald L. Kohn, above, will speak about financial regulation research, at the Brookings Institution in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); PRODUCER PRICES (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); RETAIL SALES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



199 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Real Life Economy

DATELINE: During the boom years of the Bush presidency 

 BODY:
-- remember them? -- economic growth was an especially unreliable indicator of how most Americans were doing. 
 The numbers were impressive, but the gains were lopsided, benefiting executives and investors far more than hourly workers and salaried employees. Because the growth was fueled by reckless lending and borrowing, it created an illusion of wealth even as many Americans lost ground. 
 The strange and painful disconnect was evident again in recent weeks. 
 The government reported that the economy grew at a surprising 3.3 percent in the second quarter, while productivity (the measure of how much workers accomplish per hour) soared. Unfortunately, those bounces did not mean a rebound in the lives of most Americans. 
 Growth rose, but so did unemployment. Productivity surged, but wages fell. Fixing that disconnect is the central economic challenge for the next president. 
 Increased exports were responsible for last spring's strong economic growth numbers. But selling more abroad has not led to more manufacturing jobs or working-class pay raises at home. 
 One reason, as The Times's Louis Uchitelle reported, is that manufactured goods accounted for an unusually low share of export gains in the first half of 2008, while commodities like corn and scrap metal accounted for an unusually high share. Worse yet, exports are likely to fall as the economies of Europe and Japan slow.
 American consumers also helped drive recent growth, spending nearly $100 billion in government-provided stimulus payments. That was only a temporary lift. A true rebound cannot occur until the economy stabilizes. For that, oil prices have to settle at or below their recent levels; housing prices have to bottom out; and emerging economies, like China, have to avoid recession, thus propping up global growth. 
 Washington has little influence over those factors. But the government can try to stop things from getting much worse, helping to set the stage for a rebound. Congress will likely have to provide another round of stimulus -- which should center on bolstered food stamps and grants to state and local governments. It may also have to provide more foreclosure relief. 
 That's the easy part. Once the economy stabilizes, the creative and controversial work must begin to build an economy in which all Americans have a shot at sharing in the growth. 
 Senator Barack Obama has addressed the issue conceptually, rejecting the ''you're on your own'' ethos of the Bush years. He has put forth prescriptions, including specific plans to create jobs with public-works investments, and he supports legislation that would make it easier for employees to form unions. 
 It's well established that public-works spending yields a big economic bang for every buck and that unions lead to better pay. The politics are difficult. First, Americans must agree that government has a useful role to play in the economy, a notion that has been disparaged for decades. Big employers with powerful friends on Capitol Hill -- Wal-Mart comes immediately to mind -- can be expected to fight any attempts to foster unions. 
 Senator John McCain has also pledged to address the struggles of working Americans. Both candidates say their energy plans will create jobs. But Mr. McCain emphasizes more high-end tax cuts as the main engine for new jobs. Tax cuts are always politically popular. As job generators, however, they are a loser strategy, especially now. The Bush era, with its huge tax cuts, has the worst job-creation record of any post-World War II economic cycle. 
 America needs more jobs and American workers need a raise. Mr. Obama should sharpen his promising ideas. Mr. McCain has yet to address the real economy's real problems head on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008



200 of 985 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Congress Resumes; May Take Up Drilling and Energy Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
With the presidential campaign now in full swing, Congress returns today for a September stretch that will be more about politics than policy as the two parties maneuver for full advantage in both Congressional contests and the race for the White House. The first issue on the Congressional plate will be higher energy prices as House Democrats could move as early as this week to bring to the floor a broad energy plan that would open up some areas to coastal drilling while providing incentives for alternative energy and reducing subsidies for oil companies. Democrats were still assembling the measure over the weekend, and Republicans were set to portray it as a sham, particularly if Democrats do not allow them any opportunity to amend it on the floor. 
But the measure is expected to open the door to new drilling in coastal waters now off limits, potentially depriving Republicans of the ability to keep hammering Democrats for blocking an offshore drilling vote. The Senate, where a growing bipartisan group is pushing its own version of a comprehensive measure, could have more success in finding a consensus, one that includes some financial aid for the nation's auto industry, throwing the lobbying muscle of automakers behind the plan. Senate Republicans may cite the need to keep focused on energy if they block a Democratic attempt later Monday to vote to take up the annual Pentagon policy bill. Democrats will also be pushing for a second economic stimulus package headed into the fall, arguing that the government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and rising unemployment are clear evidence that the economy is still in turmoil and average Americans need help as much as the mortgage giants and automakers. ''This situation is yet another stark reminder that we live in difficult economic times and we must do more to help struggling families reach the American dream,'' said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the majority leader. ''That is why I urge President Bush, Senator McCain and other Republicans to work with Democrats in the immediate days ahead to enact an economic recovery package.'' The one thing Congress must do before the end of the month is pass a stop-gap financing bill for the federal government after Sept. 30, but even that seemingly simple action is fraught with politics. Such a bill would typically include an extension of the annual ban on drilling off much of the nation's coast, and Republicans may try to block the funding bill over the ban, raising the prospect of a government shutdown just a few weeks before the November elections. Lawmakers will also have to decide whether any interim spending measure expires later this year, forcing a post-election lame-duck session, or extends into early 2009 after the inauguration of a new president. With some states still cleaning up from Hurricane Gustav and a more menacing hurricane approaching, Congress will also likely provide significant disaster relief before leaving town to campaign. Lawmakers will also try to deal with a rapidly depleting highway fund that is threatening to shut down road and bridge projects around the nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008

 
