

201 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Rent Now, Buy Later

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
WHEN sales began almost two years ago at the first Northside Piers tower in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, buyers snapped up more than 20 percent of the 180 luxury condominiums in the first two months. They may have been drawn by the sweeping East River vistas and myriad amenities like valet parking and rooftop cabanas.
But then came the credit crisis and the meltdown on Wall Street. Sales traffic inside the 29-story glass building began to slow down, and today about a third of the condos remain unsold.
Faced with the prospect of empty units and static cash flow, just as sales were starting on an even larger sister tower -- Two Northside Piers -- the developer, Toll Brothers, decided to take a different approach and expand a program used elsewhere in the country that allows prospective owners to lease with the option to buy, using part of the rent toward the purchase. 
Rent-to-own options, which come in many variations, have become increasingly common for developers in areas where home foreclosures are high, like Nevada, California and Florida. In most cases, the accumulated rent is used to lower the purchase price or to reduce closing costs. (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guidelines generally preclude using rent money toward the down payment, mortgage experts say, because buyers need to prove that they can save on their own and thus qualify for a loan.)
Prospective buyers at Northside Piers tower are essentially able to try out certain one- to three-bedroom apartments. If they like what they see, they can purchase them later on. Or, once the lease is up, they can simply walk away.
''It's really experimental, but all indications so far are good,'' said David Von Spreckelsen, a senior vice president of Toll Brothers City Living, a division of Toll Brothers. Two families have signed up for the rent-to-own program since it began this fall, he said.
In the last several months, as residential sales have softened in the city and throughout the region, other developments (many in parts of Brooklyn that are rife with new construction), have been offering similar deals, as have a smattering of motivated individual sellers. Some are finding help through Web sites devoted to such listings, like iRentToOwn.com -- which, according to its founder, John Kobs, has had 4.4 million page views since its inception a year ago.
At the same time, real estate brokers have been revamping their approaches to marketing hard-to-move property to include renting with an option to buy (a k a lease purchase or lease option).
Fliers and promotional material inviting people to ''test drive'' homes and neighborhoods can be found on buildings in Manhattan, including Sutton Manor on East 53rd Street, 99 John Street, the Revere on East 54th Street and Morgan Court on Madison Avenue. In Brooklyn, the BridgeView Tower and the Decora are among those with this option, in addition to Northside Piers. Both sale prices and rents are often included in the listings.
The rent-to-own concept represents ''a change in mind-set'' during these tough economic times, said Jonathan J. Miller, a founder and the president of the Miller Samuel real estate appraisal firm. ''The longer this drags out, the more acceptable this option becomes; this is just evolving,'' he said.
The last time lease-purchase options were seen with any frequency in the New York area was in the late '80s and early '90s -- a time when market conditions may have been even more dire than they are now, according to veteran real estate professionals, and certainly a time when interest rates were a lot higher.
''That period of time was a very severe downturn,'' Mr. Miller said. ''The market had about seven years of surplus inventory to be absorbed. In the period we're in now, we have 7.9 months of inventory. We're clearly going into a weak economic period but going into it with relative strength.''
Klara Madlin, the owner of Klara Madlin Real Estate in Manhattan, offered similar observations, and recalled handling a few lease-purchase deals in those dicey decades.
How many of these lessees ultimately bought their apartments back then? ''I would say maybe 5 percent -- not a lot,'' Ms. Madlin said, noting that hard numbers are difficult to come by. Conversion rates were low, she said, ''because the people generally who were renting to buy couldn't really afford to buy.''
''I think it might be different this time around,'' she said.
Renting to own can be attractive for both sides of a real estate transaction. It brings cash flow to properties that otherwise might be stagnant. And buyers lacking adequate down payments (perhaps because of stock losses), struggling with poor credit, or even recovering from a recent foreclosure, can build up savings and rebuild creditworthiness in order to get a mortgage.
For Simon Hall, a 40-year-old technology specialist from Britain, it is a means of establishing a credit history in this country and paving the path to eventual homeownership for himself and his American girlfriend, Vishma Victor, 28.
''Even though I have excellent credit in the U.K., it makes no difference in the U.S.,'' Mr. Hall said, adding that ''eventually I will have rental history and utility bill history. ''
Over the summer, before the birth of their daughter, India, the couple signed a one-year lease option on a 1,200-square-foot two-bedroom at the BridgeView Tower Condominiums near Dumbo, Brooklyn. If they agree to buy before the lease expires, he said, their $4,000 monthly rent (minus maintenance costs) will go toward the purchase of the unit, which has a current asking price of around $980,000.
Michael D. Mancuso, 29, a salesman, and Danielle J. Gendler, 26, an events and marketing manager, were not necessarily concerned about their creditworthiness, but they wanted extra time to save up for a larger down payment. In October, they signed a similar lease-purchase agreement for two years on a one-bedroom at BridgeView Tower.
''If we get most of the rent that we paid back, I'm pretty much living in Brooklyn for the next two years for nothing,'' Mr. Mancuso said. By his calculations, 83 percent of the $3,000 in monthly rent will go toward the purchase, which means the $550,000 apartment will cost them around $490,000.
''It buys a little time for everyone,'' said Scott Domansky, a principal of PRD Realty, the developer of the Heritage at Park Slope in Brooklyn, a 21-unit condominium, which last month began offering rent-to-own options on six unsold units. (So far no takers, he says, though he is in negotiations with interested parties.)
''I didn't think this would be an option a year ago,'' Mr. Domansky said. ''The market was still strong -- apartments were selling at such a rapid rate that I thought I would be sold out. But I'm happy to have renters and monthly income in lieu of a sale.''
Jason Murdock, a 33-year-old part-time disc jockey and technology consultant, is hoping that will happen for him. During the height of the real estate market, he bought several investment properties -- including two in Jamaica, Queens -- and now needs to sell them. He already lost one home, in Atlanta, to foreclosure, he said.
''I've had interest from people who wanted to purchase, but they couldn't get a mortgage,'' said Mr. Murdock, who recently moved to Charlotte, N.C., from Freeport on Long Island, and still needs to sell his house there as well. Allowing would-be buyers to lease first and use an as-yet-undetermined amount of rent toward the purchase ''gives the buyers time to save up,'' he said. It also shows him that they are qualified to buy eventually.
Brokers are even executing lease-purchase agreements in co-op buildings, though mostly, they say, as a last resort. (Most co-ops, however, restrict rentals.)
Karen Kelley, a broker at the Corcoran Group, said she had recently completed such a deal on a prewar three-bedroom on the Upper West Side. The place was listed for six months and the owners had to relocate to Atlanta, she explained. Meanwhile, Jill Sloane, a broker with Halstead Property, says her listings include two co-ops for rent with an option to buy; both had been previously listed for sale and are now vacant.
Brokers say they believe that more people are qualified to buy than are actually buying; many may be sidelined because they are waiting for home prices to reach their nadir or for the credit markets to loosen up.
''People really do want to buy -- they look at New York real estate as a valuable commodity over time,'' said Reba P. Miller, the president of R. P. Miller & Associates and the sales agent for Morgan Court in Murray Hill, which has about a dozen sponsor units available for rent with an option to buy.
Mike Tong, the developer of the BridgeView Tower in Brooklyn, said that an infusion of federal money into the banking system should eventually help business. Last month, the Federal Reserve and Treasury announced $800 billion in new lending programs.
In the meantime, Mr. Tong seems to be doing all he can to spur sales himself, even bringing in as a consultant a mortgage specialist, Debra Bock of Stanley Capital Mortgage, to counsel prospective buyers so that they can qualify for a loan. ''About a third are having trouble,'' Mr. Tong said. ''But I would say that 100 percent of them would be able to buy in three to six months.''
Those leasing at Northside Piers in Williamsburg, as in other developments, must be prequalified by a mortgage company in order to buy a unit; prices range from $700,000 for a one-bedroom to $1.1 million for a three-bedroom. According to Mr. Von Spreckelsen, the Toll Brothers senior vice president, renters have six months to commit to buying if they expect to use all of their rent toward the purchase.
''After six months it trails off -- they lose a month for each month they delay,'' he said.
Jill Vegas, 37, an interior decorator and stager, and her husband, Michael Zimberg, 35, a director at BNP Paribas, a bank, have been mulling over that offer since their lease option at Northside Piers began in October. The couple have been eager to get back into the New York market, having rented since they sold their Upper West Side apartment at the peak around four years ago.
Yet while they are not necessarily concerned about qualifying for a mortgage, they are wary of the market and wonder how long it may take before all of its problems are sorted out.
''I think this building may hold its value,'' Ms. Vegas said, ''and when I look out the windows of my two-bedroom apartment I see beautiful, unobstructed views from the 23rd floor. But when I look down, I can count on every single block how many new developments are coming up and see thousands of new units, and that worries me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WAIT AND SEE: While they watch the market, Jill Vegas and her husband are renting a 23rd-floor apartment at Northside Piers with an option to buy.
THINK ABOUT IT: Reba P. Miller, the sales agent for Morgan Court, in one of the dozen units there available for rent with an option to buy.
TAKE SOME TIME: Jason Murdock is exploring offering the rent-toown option for properties he must sell. It is a way, he says, to get around the mortgage crunch.
MEANWHILE, SAVE: Danielle J. Gendler and Michael D. Mancuso have a purchase option on a BridgeView Tower condo. The option enables them to save for a larger down payment.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE1)
ONE DAY THIS MAY ALL BE OURS Baby India spurred Simon Hall and Vishma Victor to sign a lease option at BridgeView Tower. Left, Jill Vegas and Michael Zimberg have a like arrangement at Northside Piers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); CITIES (62%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2011



202 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Works by Resident Artists

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
It is the city's most monumental art collection. Literally.
 For the last four years, Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, the 170-year-old resting place of entombed luminaries from Boss Tweed to Leonard Bernstein and the original Brooks brothers, has been acquiring paintings created by the artists -- both legendary and obscure -- who have taken up permanent residence. 
 ''It's one thing to stand at the grave site,'' said Richard J. Moylan, the president of Green-Wood. ''But seeing the works of art these people created in their lifetimes gives them a kind of immortality.'' 
 The collection began with a small oil by Louis M. Eilshemius, a visionary painter of cavorting nymphs, and has grown to 70 works by the likes of Louis Comfort Tiffany, Eastman Johnson, William Merritt Chase, George Wesley Bellows, George Catlin, Daniel Huntington, John George Brown, Philip Evergood, Vestie Davis, Bruce Crane, John La Farge, the printmakers Nathaniel Currier and James Merritt Ives, and William Holbrook Beard, famed for his satiric paintings of animals engaged in human activities, including his influential 1879 depiction of Wall Street bulls and bears (which is on view at the New-York Historical Society). 
 As part of an effort to recover its past, the cemetery has discovered more than 3,000 Civil War soldiers and sailors whose graves dot the manicured hills, as well as hundreds of important figures from the early days of baseball. Now the cemetery has identified 220 artists at Green-Wood, ''and we expect there may be many more,'' said Jeffrey I. Richman, the cemetery's historian. 
 They range from Jean-Michel Basquiat and Samuel F. B. Morse (both of whose paintings are out of the cemetery's price range) to lesser-known artists such as Samuel S. Carr, whose works are definitely within its means. 
 ''The collection is unique,'' Mr. Richman said, because ''none of the nation's other historic cemeteries have substantial systematic collections of deceased artists.'' 
 The nonprofit cemetery has an annual budget of $13 million for operations, maintenance and the restoration of the monuments of nearly 600,000 people in the 478-acre cemetery. ''So we don't have a huge amount of money for art,'' Mr. Moylan said, adding that ''originally, I never thought we could afford original works by artists.'' 
 But Green-Wood's historic fund has so far paid some $250,000 for paintings, and Mr. Moylan has been persistently on the hunt, buying artworks at auctions after painstaking research, sometimes abetted by Mr. Richman. ''The economic downturn is horrible, but it has made a lot of art more affordable, so we're hoping to keep acquiring,'' Mr. Moylan said. 
 Some of the works in the collection would probably not interest major museums, ''but most are fair representations of the artists' work,'' Mr. Moylan said. For example, its Eastman Johnson portrait is an 1848 painting of his grandmother when he was in his 20s. ''We couldn't afford any of his greatest paintings.'' 
 One of the cemetery's prized possessions is a portrait of DeWitt Clinton by George Catlin, now famous for his hundreds of paintings of American Indians in the 1820s and 1830s. ''I love this painting,'' Mr. Moylan said, ''because it was a doubleheader, a painting by one of our own -- and a portrait of one of our own,'' he said of those in the cemetery. 
 Mr. Moylan, who bought it for $5,875, was unsure of its provenance, and called in a foremost Catlin researcher, Joan Carpenter Troccoli, senior scholar at the Petrie Institute of Western American Art at the Denver Art Museum. 
 ''There is no question that it is by Catlin,'' Ms. Troccoli said in an interview. ''It has Catlin's hand.'' Dr. Troccoli will deliver a lecture on Sunday -- titled ''Is this Painting Real?'' -- at 1 p.m. in the Green-Wood chapel about her detective work on the Catlin portrait.
 She added that the painting of Clinton was probably painted in the late 1820s, just after Catlin created a full-length portrait of Clinton that is prominently hanging in City Hall. The one in Green-Wood ''is not a masterpiece, but is lighter, less worked-over and more approachable.'' Of Clinton and Catlin, Dr. Troccoli said that ''their fate is so strange -- they both ended up in Green-Wood.'' But Clinton was accorded a grand, sculpted monument, while Catlin ''was buried without a gravestone.'' 
 She explained that Catlin's in-laws' family felt that he had deserted his wife, Clara, so the artist, who was destitute when he died, wound up relegated to a far corner, without a marker, in her family's plot at Green-Wood. Finally, in 1961, a plain granite stone was placed at the grave by his descendants and others. 
 He was not the only artist to be unrecognized. One work in Mr. Moylan's collection, from Philip Evergood -- who is considered an important W.P.A. muralist and painter -- is unfinished, and his grave is unfinished as well, lacking a stone. 
 Some of the artists who do have monuments have been accorded gravestones that reference their works. For example, the burial plot of William Holbrook Beard, the painter of humanlike animals, is adorned by a bronze bear. 
 Though much of the collection is centered in the 19th-century heyday of the cemetery, it has some relatively recent works, including ''Coney Island Beach,'' a 1963 work by Vestie Davis (which cost $4,750). But Mr. Moylan said that the cemetery could never afford the multimillion-dollar works of Jean-Michel Basquiat, who was interred in the cemetery after he died in 1988 (his mother, Matilda, was recently buried in the artist's plot). 
 But works new and old have proved difficult to house: the collection temporarily populates the walls of Green-Wood's crowded administrative offices, and some recently arrived paintings are stacked amid file cabinets and desks. Mr. Moylan is planning to establish a permanent gallery space at the cemetery that will display these and future acquired works. Ultimately, a mapped, self-guided tour of the artists' graves is planned, and Mr. Moylan hopes to publish a book celebrating their works. 
 Assembling the art collection, said Mr. Richman, ''has taught us much about the history of the cemetery.'' For the most part, the cemetery's massive 22-by-16-inch, hand-inscribed burial ledgers did not list the occupations of occupants. And so, identifying artists has required intensive research and, occasionally, luck. 
 ''We just found another painter on Tuesday,'' Mr. Richman said referring to Mary McComb, daughter of an architect of City Hall, John McComb Jr. She painted a well-known image of the Montauk Point Lighthouse, ''which her father also designed,'' said Mr. Richman, who discovered that she is in the McComb burial plot. ''So our process of discovery keeps unfolding.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Louis Eilshemius work began Green-Wood's collection.
 The grave of William Holbrook Beard, who is known for depicting animals in human activities.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HISTORY (87%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); CIVIL WAR (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



203 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; WORD FOR WORD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: What Recession? We're Ballplayers

BYLINE: By STEFAN FATSIS. 
Stefan Fatsis is the author, most recently, of ''A Few Seconds of Panic: A 5-foot-8, 170-pound, 43-year-old Sportswriter Plays in the N.F.L.''

 BODY:
As long as sports have been played for money, someone has complained about how much of it the players receive. ''Salaries must come down or the interest of the public must be increased in some way,'' Albert Spalding, the owner of the Chicago White Stockings of baseball's National League, said in 1881. ''If one or the other does not happen, bankruptcy stares every team in the face.''
 With the economy in free fall, warnings like Spalding's should carry more weight than the usual grumbling about overpaid jocks. And yet, big numbers continue to dance across the sports pages. The Yankees offer $140 million to free-agent pitcher C. C. Sabathia. The Knicks pay disgruntled point guard Stephon Marbury $21 million to do nothing. Wide receiver Plaxico Burress of the Giants apparently cares so little about protecting his new $35 million contract that he lets a handgun go off in his sweat pants at a New York nightclub. Didn't he know he was lucky to still have a job in these hard times? 
 The message for fans: recession or not, the gargantuan athlete's salary isn't going anywhere. As the outfielder and free agent Manny Ramirez put it after helping power the Los Angeles Dodgers to the playoffs: ''Gas is up and so am I.''
 The four major United States sports leagues together generate about $20 billion a year. With broadcast contracts continuing for several years, much of that revenue is guaranteed. Similarly, many marketing deals are locked in for multiple years and, during recent good times, leagues have booked substantial gains from digital media and other sources. ''The hay is already in the barn,'' said the baseball agent Scott Boras, who represents several top players seeking new contracts this off-season, including Ramirez. 
 But leagues and franchises are taking their financial lumps: canceled corporate sponsorships, lower season-ticket renewals, lagging merchandise sales. (Team owners aren't thrilled about their shrinking personal portfolios, either.) Since total player compensation in every major sport but baseball is allocated as a percentage of actual revenue, a decline in player pay is inevitable if such slowdowns continue. The decision for clubs will be where to inflict the relative pain.
 It won't necessarily be such a difficult choice. As in Hollywood, superstars drive the sports business, for reasons of talent and box-office appeal. The shock over how much money elite players make has gradually dissipated since salaries began soaring with the advent of free agency in the 1980s. It's even arguable that the sports business is in a ''post-money'' era. 
 Today's fans -- including a generation that has grown up managing fantasy-team payrolls -- not only are inured to the fact that jocks make outlandish coin, they understand why and might even like it. ''It makes superheroes a little more superhuman,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College in Northampton, Mass. ''That's part of the allure of sports.''
 So big-city teams signing big-name players to lucrative contracts won't prompt angry comparisons to the plight of the working class. ''Money well deserved and well spent,'' one fan posted on the Boston Red Sox message board ''Sons of Sam Horn'' last week after the team signed the 25-year-old second baseman Dustin Pedroia to a six-year, $40.5 million deal shortly after he was named the American League's most valuable player. Sabathia, late of the Milwaukee Brewers, appears so unconcerned that the worsening economy will reduce his value that he has sat on the Yankees' offer for three weeks while testing the market.
 In down times, teams need marquee players to give penny-pinching fans additional reasons to attend games and bolster the team's bottom line. ''You're not going to see Matisse and Cezanne available at your local dollar store,'' said Andy Dolich, chief operating officer of the San Francisco 49ers. 
 In addition, club owners always want to win. ''There's enough ego and competitive instinct to make the big splash in free agency,'' said Andrew Brandt, who managed the Green Bay Packers' salary cap from 1999-2007. ''The issue will become how dramatic a drop-off there will be beyond the top 5 or 10 players.''
 That's where teams are likely to become more judicious. In sports where athletes enjoy guaranteed contracts -- baseball, basketball and hockey -- non-elite players are likely to see contract offers with fewer years and less money. More players could be forced to accept league-minimum salaries. Teams might be reluctant to release players or fire coaches still owed tens of millions of dollars.
 Fans ultimately might expect their favorite team to be fiscally responsible, if for no other reason than to mirror their own economic problems. But they won't let owners use the recession as an excuse to scrimp on players. Last month, shortly after withdrawing a two-year, $45 million offer to Ramirez, the president of the Dodgers, Jamie McCourt, wondered aloud whether giving an athlete millions of dollars while average people were losing their jobs would be ''a little weird.'' She then mused whether Dodgers fans might prefer to see some of that money spent by the team on charitable work in the community.
 It's a false choice, of course. Fans know that the labor marketplace dictates how much a player receives, and they are hip to how much teams are capable of spending. Indeed, the Dodgers last week offered Ramirez salary arbitration, which could obligate them to pay him as much as $30 million in 2009. (Ramirez has until midnight Sunday to accept or decline arbitration.) After her remarks were lambasted in the news media and among online commenters, Ms. McCourt said the Dodgers were committed to winning.
 Dodgers fans will believe it when they see it -- the latter ''it'' being a string of zeros on the contract of a star. ''I can do without the shallow, self-interested explanations on the appropriateness of spending free-agent dollars while companies go under,'' the sports blogger Brian Kamenetzky wrote on the Web site of The Los Angeles Times. ''Put the best product on the field you can afford, period.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



204 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; 2009 SKI GUIDE JOURNEYS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Luxury, Bargains and Smaller Crowds

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PREUSCH

 BODY:
WITH the Dow dropping faster than Daron Rahlves at Hahnenkamm, and condo sales kaput, these are dark times for ski resorts. America's newest ski resort, Tamarack Resort in Idaho, went into receivership earlier this year. And last month, the exclusive Yellowstone Club in Montana declared bankruptcy.
 While much of the current ski buzz is about the flurry of last-minute deals and recession-busters, ski resorts are still rolling out plenty of new high-speed lifts, new spas, new hotels and new green initiatives. The fact is that most of these improvements were planned before the recent nosedive. 
 ''The theme for new amenities is really luxury, which is interesting considering where the economy is right now,'' said Dan Sherman, a spokesman for Ski.com, one of the country's largest sellers of ski vacations. 
 Perhaps the mix of bling and bargains will keep visitors coming. Or maybe you'll have more of the mountain to yourself this winter. 
 NORTHEAST
 The Ice Coast can't compete in terms of terrain with the West, but continuing improvements mean that Northeast skiers will find new high-speed lifts, amenity-rich hotels and other big-ticket upgrades within reach.
 Stowe Mountain Resort (800-253-4754; www.stowe.com) in Vermont opens its new Spruce Camp Base Lodge this winter, a sprawling alpine-chic complex with restaurants and bars, rental shops, sundecks and stone fireplaces -- replacing the giant yurts that skiers used in past years. The $400 million upgrade includes the new Stowe Mountain Lodge, the first slopeside hotel in the resort's seven-decade history. Rooms start at $199, and the lodge is next to the two-year-old Over Easy gondola, which connects Stowe's two summits: Spruce Peak and Mount Mansfield. But not all is bright: Stowe is owned by the faltering insurance giant AIG.
 Killington Resort (800-621-6867; www.killington.com), also in Vermont, likes to boast that it has more terrain supplemented by snow-making machines than most Northeast resorts have skiable acres. For its 50th birthday, the Beast of the East isn't showing its age: 124 low-energy snow guns are being added this year, plus a Jake Burton-designed terrain park called the Stash, an eco-friendly temple of wood-built jibs, jumps and rails that is reachable on the new Skye Peak Express high-speed quad lift. In Maine, Sunday River (207-824-3000; www.sundayriver.com) is installing a new ''chondola.'' It's just a goofy name for a lift that has both enclosed gondolas and traditional chairs. But more important, it will cut travel time to North Peak from 20 minutes to 7, meaning longer laps around the beginners' South Ridge and quicker access to the advanced terrain around Aurora Peak, Oz and Jordan Bowl. Seventy new snow-making guns will ensure plenty of snow by the holidays. 
 And in New Hampshire, Loon Mountain (603-745-8111; www.loonmtn.com) is continuing its aggressive expansion in the White Mountains. Two more runs are being added to the new South Peak area, including the resort's first double black diamond, Rip Saw. And for beginners, there's a new carpet lift on Sarsaparilla. ''The beginners on Sarsaparilla used to have to try to grab onto a handle that would fly by them and would literally pull them up the slope,'' said Booie Alward, Loon's snow sports director. ''That's not much fun.'' 
 COLORADO ROCKIES
 Colorado's wealth of resorts still sets the bar for destination ski vacations, from luxe to laid-back. 
 Aspen/Snowmass (970-925-1220; www.aspensnowmass.com) is in the middle of a $1 billion development of a base village at Snowmass, the largest of the four mountains that make up the huge resort. This year's additions: five new restaurants (including two from the Playboy Club-building N9NE Group), scores of condos and a 15,000-square-foot conference center. On the slopes of Snowmass, there's the new Sheer Bliss quad lift, which provides quicker access to 700 acres of glade skiing and groomed cruisers. But work on other mountain upgrades continues, so you may spot a hard hat or two, along with the usual celebrities.
 Keystone Ski Resort (877-753-9786; www.keystone.snow.com) will introduce an eight-person River Run Gondola this season. The lift follows the same line as the old six-person gondola, but the base was moved downhill to the River Run Village, saving skiers a slippery walk in the morning and allowing them to avoid the end-of-day rush hour by riding the gondola back down. One-bedroom rentals at the Springs, the closest condos to the new gondola, start at about $175.
 Powder hounds are eager for the opening of the Revelation quad chair at Telluride Ski Resort (970-728-6900; www. tellurideskiresort.com). The new lift means that skiers no longer need to hike to the legendary Revelation Bowl. Indeed, you can't crack a ski magazine these days without seeing a full-page ad of the bowl's 800 vertical feet of storm-packed powder. Backcountry purists who prefer to go by foot can still hike through the gates near Lift 12 for off-piste trails on Black Iron Bowl or Palmyra Peak, which opened last year.
 WEST
 Sure, Mammoth Mountain (800-626-6684; www.mammothmountain.com) is making improvements to the table-top jumps at its already awesome terrain parks, but the really big air this season is at Mammoth Yosemite Airport. That's where, starting Dec. 18, daily flights from Los Angeles International Airport will arrive, marking the first time in 13 years that the Eastern Sierra resort will have air service. The 65-minute flights will leave the airport every afternoon until mid-April and start at $198.
 The big news at Taos Ski Valley (866-968-7386, www.skitaos.org) in New Mexico -- besides a new double-black diamond glade called North American -- is the addition of, gasp, snowboarders. They were first allowed on the New Mexico area's slopes last spring, and the world did not come to an end. That only leaves three holdouts in the United States: Deer Valley and Alta in Utah and Mad River Glen in Vermont.
 In 2006, Jackson Hole Mountain Resort in Wyoming (307-733-2292; www.jacksonhole.com) took its aging tram offline. This winter, the free skier's favorite hill will return to top form when a shiny replacement tram starts its engine on Dec. 20. Each red car can carry 100 people to the 10,450-foot summit of Rendezvous Mountain and its legendary black diamond terrain in about nine minutes. 
 BRITISH COLUMBIA
 The big news in Canada is still Revelstoke (250-814-0087; www.revelstokemountainresort.com), North America's newest -- and tallest-- ski resort, if you measure by vertical drop. The year-old resort is extending its main gondola and opening a base lodge this winter. 
 But for sheer engineering audacity, the new Peak 2 Peak gondola at Whistler Blackcomb (866-218-9690; www.whistlerblackcomb.com) takes the prize. The gondola cable stretches nearly 2.75 miles between the resort's twin peaks, which sure beats riding a cat track on a long traverse. ''It's pretty much a novelty, but it's a really cool novelty,'' said Mr. Sherman of Ski.com. And one best visited before the crowds come for the 2010 Winter Olympics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Snowboarders are now seen at the Taos Ski Valley resort in New Mexico. They were allowed onto the slopes for the first time last spring.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TAOS SKI VALLEY)
 The new Peak 2 Peak gondola cable at Whistler Blackcomb in British Columbia stretches nearly 2.75 miles between the resort's twin peaks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WHISTLER BLACKCOMB)(pg. TR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (94%); SKIING FACILITIES (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOTEL AMENITIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); DRINKING PLACES (72%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); CANADA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



205 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; SHOPWORN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: The Last Temptation of Plastic

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Was that a layaway sign I saw?
For the last two decades, layaway has been a relic, a vestige of a time when banks promoted Christmas savings clubs and a Depression ethos of thrift reigned. Instead of swiping a credit card and walking off with the goods, shoppers would put their objects of desire on hold until they paid for them.
Almost sounds like a novel idea: ''Pay first. Buy later.''
Today, with the financial crisis worsening, the layaway sign has crept back into consumption culture. Discount retailers like Kmart and Sears are aggressively promoting layaway as a smart and exciting way to buy. No less a tastemaker than Oprah Winfrey has suggested that a new frugality might herald the return of the installment plan. ''Remember layaway?'' she prodded on her talk show this fall. ''That is where we are heading.'' 
Perhaps. But never underestimate the cravings of the American consumer and the convenience of the credit card. Fifty years ago, the financial industry was transformed by a thin piece of plastic. It was an innovation that lifted the American economy -- and the world's, too. By making it easier to obtain credit -- sometimes recklessly easy -- the credit card empowered people to buy their dreams.
Still, the economic upheaval now under way raises the question: will the current crisis leave a lasting impression on the credit card? Consumers, having watched their home values, their retirement plans and in many cases even their jobs evaporate, are plucking more slowly from their wallets. Banks, already crippled by billions of dollars in mortgage-related losses and fearful that bad credit card debt will balloon, are tightening standards and raising interest rates. And the federal government is considering tough new regulations that the industry says will end up restricting credit further.
''We are in the throes of a global credit crisis that has implications on consumers at all income levels,'' said Carl Pascarella, a former chief executive of Visa USA. ''People are going to have to live within their means.''
If they do, the impact on the American economy could be profound. Debt-fueled consumer spending accounts for as much as 70 percent of gross domestic product.
''We are probably going to be in a period of slower growth for the next two to five years,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group.
Ever since BankAmerica blanketed Fresno, Calif., with a mass mailing of credit cards in 1958, flexing plastic has been part of daily life. With a flick of the wrist, we could buy groceries or a refrigerator, pay for a vacation or a hospital stay, furnish a home or finance a business. It might not have been life, liberty or the pursuit of happiness, but easy access to credit was surely an inalienable right.
For the last half-century, that basic precept has held true. Credit card debt has grown to roughly $822 billion today, increasing almost every year, even when the economy slumped.
Amid the recession of the early 1980s, lenders put more cards in the hands of senior citizens, students and other low-income customers. By charging high interest and pesky fees, banks were making money as borrowers defaulted.
During the recession of the early 1990s, lenders continued to extend credit to a broad range of borrowers, including those who already had two or three cards. Subprime lenders aggressively marketed their cards to unemployed workers for ''bridge loans'' until they found another job.
And after the technology bubble burst in 2001, credit card issuers confidently loosened lending standards and even went after indebted borrowers with zero-interest teaser rates. Lenders reasoned that cardholders who lost their jobs could still refinance debts by extracting the equity from the rising value of their homes.
Still, this recession is different. Many consumers today have maxed out on their credit and have little or no home equity. And credit card lending is no longer as profitable for banks since their own borrowing costs have risen.
''This is the first crisis of the modern credit card industry,'' said Robert D. Manning, the author of ''Credit Card Nation'' and a critic of credit practices.
And the crisis is widening.
Credit card lenders are on pace to write off at least $45 billion on bad debt this year. As the unemployment rate soars -- the loss of 533,000 jobs in November was the largest one-month drop in 34 years -- the industry could lose an additional $60 billion or so in 2009. Many analysts and bankers believe that loss rate could easily eclipse the record 7.9 percent level of outstanding credit card debt reached in early 2002.
Lenders have been rushing to slow the spread. Every major credit card issuer -- from Bank of America, Chase and Citigroup to the finance arms of General Electric and Target Corporation -- is approving fewer new applicants, pulling in credit limits and canceling unused accounts.
And sweeping regulatory changes could reduce the amount of credit available to consumers even more. Having missed the implications of the housing bubble, the Federal Reserve and Congress are considering rules to crack down on unfair lending practices.
''Lenders will ultimately choose to provide fewer credit lines to fewer customers,'' Meredith A. Whitney, a banking analyst, said recently. By her projections, consumers could lose access to $2 trillion in credit in the next 18 months.
This would force many Americans to radically change their behavior -- saving for what they can afford rather than financing what they covet.
Already, there are some signs of such a shift. Visa said that spending on its credit cards in the United States dropped in the first three weeks in October after barely increasing in the third quarter. Spending volume has fallen only twice before -- immediately after the 9/11 attacks, and in late 1980, when the country slipped into recession.
Cardholders are also changing how they spend their money. Bank executives say more customers are using their credit cards for groceries, gasoline and other necessities and are deferring purchases of big-ticket items like furniture and flat-screen televisions. Retailers are bracing for the worst holiday shopping season in decades.
New government statistics, meanwhile, suggest that Americans are socking away more money. The savings rate has been climbing since it flattened out in April at a record low of zero.
Thrift is hot on Madison Avenue and Hollywood, too. Wal-Mart's new slogan is ''Save money. Live better.'' Bank of America has been advertising its ''Keep the Change'' debit card savings program and risk-free certificates of deposit. And in what was either prescient or a lucky bit of timing, ''Confessions of a Shopaholic,'' a morality tale for the ''Sex and the City'' set, is coming to theaters in February. Its protagonist is head over her high heels in credit card debt until she becomes Successful Savings magazine's advice columnist, finds true love with her handsome editor and ultimately pays off her loans and learns to live within her means.
Whether there will be a lasting cultural change in the way consumers use their credit cards is likely to depend on the depth and duration of the current recession. History suggests that we are quick to forget. Often when the American economy contracts, some new innovation in credit seems to follow, paving the way for an even bolder era of consumption.
After the Great Depression, commercial banks began moving into the consumer lending business, which blossomed into the Golden Era of Consumption of the 1950s. The downturn of the late 1970s ushered in the electronic payment revolution. Credit cards became even more convenient to use. The 1980s are remembered for ''Generation Me.''
This time, Americans may think twice about using credit cards and start flexing debit cards more frequently -- just as they do in Europe and Asia, where credit cards are less a part of daily life.
In 2007, Americans used a debit card in roughly 21 percent of all transactions; credit cards accounted for about 19 percent, according to The Nilson Report, an industry newsletter. By 2012, debit card use is expected to rise to about 29 percent of all transactions, while credit card use would stay about the same.
Gary L. Perlin, Capital One's chief financial officer, said he has seen a ''mild shift'' to debit card use in the past three months as his customers hunker down. Other industry experts suggest that the downturn could accelerate this trend.
Indeed, some banks have begun offering an overdraft line of credit on debit cards. Others are testing a rewards point program, as they have done with credit cards for years.
The layaway and other installment plans that are making a return this holiday season may also be here to stay. Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, and TJ Maxx are filling up their layaway racks. Business is also bustling at E-Layaway.com, an online service bringing the old-fashioned installment plan into the new economy.
It's probably premature to suggest that consumers will wean themselves from their costly addiction to credit cards, though. ''I have always been struck by how many people want to see this as the end of an era of consumer excess and the beginning of a new age of thrift,'' said Lendol Calder, a history professor at Augustana College who has studied the role of consumer credit in American culture. ''I don't see that happening.''
''We will see people pulling in their belts for one or two years,'' Mr. Calder added, ''and then it will be back to where we left off.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL DESIGN/BEN WISEMAN)(WK1)
CHART: How Credit Cards Came to Rule American Lives: Americans embraced revolving credit ...: Average household credit card debt,* in 2008 dollars.
 ... to an extent that exceeds disposable income: U.S. credit card debt* per dollar of after-tax household income(excluding capital gains).(*Includes a small amount of other revolving credit debt. Revolving credit is borrowing against a pre-approved line of credit that has flexible payment terms, as opposed to installment loans that must be paid off on a schedule). (Source: Moody's Economy.com)(WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); INTEREST RATES (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



206 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; VISUALS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2824 words

HEADLINE: Visuals: Other Worlds

BYLINE: By STEVEN HELLER

 BODY:
Before color photography, and long before the computer made colorization easy, hand-painting with oils and dyes on photographic glass plates was a common way to bring black-and-white images to life. Hand-colored photographs had an otherworldly appearance: not quite real, but close enough to suggest an exotic parallel universe. That made them perfect for travel snapshots -- especially of places already rich in fable and legend. In the Footsteps of Abraham: The Holy Land in Hand-Painted Photographs (Overlook Duckworth, $65), by Richard Hardiman and Helen Speelman, reproduces hundreds of hand-colored pictures taken during the 1920s by the Matson Photo Agency, which was run by American Christian expatriates in Jerusalem. 
 In 1966, those expatriates -- G. Eric Matson and his wife, Edith -- gave their entire photographic collection to the Library of Congress. As the curator George S. Hobart notes in an introductory essay, Eric Matson was devoted to the prints; even years after donating them, he spent long hours ''cleaning, identifying and organizing his beloved group of photographic negatives.'' 
 The Matsons belonged to a small Christian community, the American Colony, founded in Palestine in 1881. As a commercial venture, the colony sold hand-colored prints to tourists. One of their biggest customers in the 1920s and early 1930s was a wealthy Dutch Christian, Arie Speelman, who selected more than 1,200 images of landscapes, people and structuresfor his ''Palestina Evening'' slide shows, promoting pilgrimages to the Holy Land. His collection was eventually donated to the Jewish Historical Museum in Amsterdam, and it provides the pictures for this book. (Speelman's granddaughter Helen is one of the authors.) 
 Each image takes up a full page. Most are incredibly sharp, some are painterly, and many are so finely detailed -- colored with single-hair brushes, even -- that they're hard to distinguish from actual color photographs. The stone buildings in ''Bethlehem Alleyway'' and the clothing of the ''Bedouin Girl'' could almost be digital prints, they're so precise. 
 Although not intended as sociological studies, the photographs do offer a vivid record of change. But most extraordinary is the way some seem to reveal a land where nothing ever changes. ''Spring at Cana'' -- showing Bedouin women and men at a well, possibly in the same town where Jesus is said to have turned water into wine -- might be mistaken for a snapshot directly from biblical times, had cameras been invented yet. 
 If audio recordings had been available alongside those biblical cameras, we could hear how the original Jewish prayer songs sounded. Instead we have to make do with recordings like Jan Peerce's ''Cantorial Masterpieces'' or ''The Best Cantorial Works of Cantor David Roitman.'' During the 1950s and '60s, a relatively large number of these things were available, from the likes of Shaindele di Chazante and Herman Malamood. 
 ''Bing Crosby. Michael Jackson. Elvis Presley. Frank Sinatra. Four of the best-selling artists of all time have been male solo acts,'' Roger Bennett and Josh Kun write in the Talmudically titled And You Shall Know Us by the Trail of Our Vinyl: The Jewish Past as Told by the Records We Have Loved and Lost (Crown, $24.95). ''It should not be surprising, then, that the Mosaic equivalent, the cantor, dominated the early Jewish record market too. The sheer number of these studio liturgical recordings is a reflection of the massive fan base who once hungered for these gems.'' In fact, Jewish records in general were in great demand, and this book seems to revive them all: Sol Zim's ''Great Jewish Melodies,'' Ruth Rubin's ''Yiddish Love Songs,'' the Irving Fields Trio's ''Bagels and Bongos'' -- they're all here. 
 The book features more than 400 album covers from a wide variety of Jewish LPs: ''Bagels & Lox!'' by Pearl Williams; ''Mazel Tov, Mis Amigos,'' by Juan Calle and His Latin Lantzmen; ''The Voice of the Seder,'' by Rabbi Isaac C. Avigdor; and ''Jewish Wedding Dances,'' by Sam Musiker. My favorite is ''Batman & Rubin,'' by the comedy duo Allen and Rossi. Although only a few of these album covers were designed with more sophistication than a deli menu, for those raised on a steady diet of them the book will be a holiday feast, heartburn and all. 
 The airbrush, patented in 1876 by Francis Edgar Stanley (of Stanley Steamer fame) and perfected by Abner Peeler, came into its own on an entirely different kind of album cover. Unlike traditional bristle brushes, these penlike spray guns use compressed air to force ink, paint and dye evenly through a fine nozzle. The result is often an ultravelvet surface that appears more mechanical than handmade. In the late 19th century and much of the 20th, the airbrush was used primarily for retouching and manipulating photographs or rendering drawings for commercial advertisements and political propaganda. Starting in the late 1960s, airbrushing became one of the most popular illustration styles, known for its luminescent fluidity and hyper-realistic aura. 
 Many leading conceptual airbrush artists lived in California, for one simple reason, according to Mike Salisbury, a former art director of Rolling Stone: ''There was so much illustration work in L.A. beginning about the year that 'Sgt. Pepper's' was released,'' Salisbury writes in his introductory essay to Overspray, by Norman Hathaway (PictureBox, $50). The book contains many of the most memorable examples from four prolific airbrushers -- David Willardson, Charles E. White III, Peter Lloyd and Peter Palombi -- in the realms of editorial work, record covers, and music and film promotion, showing how it evolved into a youth-culture visual style. Despite some famous pictures, however, the overall impression is like the '70s itself: too much gloss and too little substance. 
 Or maybe, in a chemical sense, too much substance. ''The airbrush generation grew up during a time when pot was highly incriminating but your best friend's mom had diet pills in the medicine cabinet of her husband-the-doctor's yacht,'' Salisbury writes. Unlike the psychedelic art of the hippie generation, this graphic style didn't extol the drug culture, but it clearly implied it through opulence and sensuality. Willardson's album covers for Pacific Gas & Electric's ''Are You Ready'' (1970) and for ''American Graffiti'' (1973), and his Steely Dan cover for Rolling Stone (1974) have a sexy pinup style that helped define that swinging time. Peter Lloyd went even further, with caricatured women like ''Tropicana Groupie'' for Oui magazine (1975), complete with shimmering breasts and shiny red nipples. But not all airbrushing was this sexual. In his most memorable work, Charles E. White III celebrated pure craft and execution. His 1972 cover for the National Lampoon album ''Radio Dinner'' featured an absurd TV dinner tray in the shape of a 1940s radio, with peas and carrots you could almost taste, and his 1977 ''Bumper'' was a close-up of chrome so shiny you looked for yourself in the reflection. Technique abounds here, with each artist trying to outdo the next in shimmering highlights or syrupy goo. 
 This era of graphics was significant, yet it doesn't really hold up. Excess pervades ''Overspray,'' and while some stylish art gets better with age, this genre is far too ripe. 
 It doesn't get any riper than the art in Dope Menace: The Sensational World of Drug Paperbacks, 1900-1975, by Stephen J. Gertz (Feral House, paper, $24.95), which offers an array of the most overdone, vivid covers of this pulp fiction genre. The styles vary -- hyper-surrealism by Bill Fleming for ''Marihuana,'' steamy pseudorealism by Frank Cozzarelli for ''The Junk Pusher,'' expressionism by Leo and Diane Dillon for ''Gentleman Junkie,'' underground comic by R. Crumb for ''Laughing Gas'' -- but they all share desperation or depravity, or both. Sex is also dominant, particularly in books about impressionable students, like ''Campus Sin Cult'' (1968), with a cover to die for by Robert Bonfils. For those who thought the addled drug scene came of age in the psychedelic '60s, Gertz traces the obsession at least as far back as the 19th and early 20th centuries, when drug culture was often identified with the new or exotic. In 1905, for example, the novel ''King of the Opium Ring'' carried the tag line ''Big Chinese-American Sensation.'' And the genre got much steamier after that. 
 In NASA/ART: 50 Years of Exploration (Abrams, $40), James Dean and Bertram Ulrich collect a group of space-themed pictures in oils, watercolors, graphite, colored pencil and -- strangely, perhaps -- no airbrushing. Since 1963, when NASA and the National Gallery of Art asked eight artists to document the last Mercury flight, the space agency has turned to figures including Norman Rockwell, Robert Rauschenberg, Nam June Paik, Fletcher Martin, James Wyeth and many other painters, printmakers and illustrators, commissioning them to interpret the American space program in any manner or style. On this, the 50th anniversary of NASA's founding, the artwork in this book celebrates America's achievements. That makes it propaganda in a sense; but unlike conventional propagandists, the NASA artists had considerable license. 
 When NASA was founded in 1958, the National Aeronautics and Space Act required it to ''provide for the widest practicable and appropriate dissemination of information concerning its activities and the results thereof.'' Hiring artists helps it do that -- and it's fun for the artists too: ''Through their 'back door' access, artists witness NASA programs and missions in a way that the public cannot,'' Dean and Ulrich write in their preface. The imagery in this book runs the conceptual gamut, from Pierre Mion's science-fiction-like ''Speck of Dust,'' showing two tiny astronauts on a mammoth moonscape, to Barbara Prey's ''X-43,'' a photorealist watercolor of a supersonic aircraft in flight, to Keith Duncan's ''New Frontier,'' a surreal collage depicting ''the International Space Station in an allegorical context,'' with Icarus and Daedalus ''hovering angelically over the Earth's surface.'' Some of the work is comically abstract, like Matthew Benedict's ''Man on the Moon,'' featuring a moon man apparently shaving (it's really a superimposed picture of the astronaut Jack Schmitt), while others, notably Rockwell's ''Behind Apollo 11,'' are unabashedly heroic. Although the quality of the images varies from masterly to mundane, the theme of space exploration never ceases to fascinate. Yet the book as a whole has a dated aesthetic -- its lenticular cover flashes between two images, and its inside typeface has a nostalgic '70s vibe -- perhaps wistful for an era when space travel still felt mythic rather than humdrum. 
 Arguably the most consistently impressive government-sponsored American art occurred when artists were ''put to work for America'' as part of Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal, which went into effect 75 years ago. The largest agency in this program, the Works Progress Administration, brought a range of cultural events to Depression-weary citizens through the Federal Art Project -- which among other things commissioned a huge number of posters, ''to raise awareness and promote a wide range of programs, activities and behaviors that the Roosevelt administration believed would improve people's lives.'' So writes Ennis Carter, the author of Posters for the People: Art of the WPA (Quirk, $50), a rich album of hundreds of rare and well-known graphic images from the era. W.P.A. posters promoted workplace safety, health, education, conservation, community, theater, dance and music. Although artists were employed by regional agencies like the New York City Art Project or the Pennsylvania Game Commission, the W.P.A. style was fairly consistent in all states. The overarching graphic conceits include a streamlined version of Art Deco (''Your Family Needs Protection Against Syphilis'') and a variant of Russian Constructivism (the Sioux City Camera Club's ''Second Annual Exhibition: Photographs''), with a dose of surrealism thrown in (the New York and New Jersey ''Regional Poster Exhibition''). 
 America never had a truly national design style, like Germany, or a national typeface, like England, but the W.P.A. posters came close to imposing an aesthetic -- an amalgam of modernistic, classical and even frontier typefaces and flat, sometimes abstract but mostly representational artwork (no photographs were used). This was, in fact, a golden age of graphic art in the service of society. Just compare the graphic virtuosity of ''Don't Take Risks'' (a poster for workplace safety) or ''Balanced Diet for the Expectant Mother'' with the cautionary choking posters posted in restaurants these days, and you can't help feeling nostalgic for this more alluring -- not to mention more effective -- design. 
 W.P.A. and social realist propaganda posters have inspired a lot of contemporary alternative art and design. These heroic and romantic images are extremely easy to parody or manipulate as commentary on today's social and political woes. Shepard Fairey, the street artist whose OBEY logo is one of the most ubiquitous and best known guerrilla art projects, blends socialist realism with other retro design conceits and has developed his protest style into a branded business, which he uses to critique the commercial and political system. But commerce (his fashions and accessories sell in trendy boutiques) and politics (he is routinely fined or arrested for posting his work on city streets) are not always great bedfellows, and Fairey has become a lightning rod -- critics claim he has sold out, while admirers applaud his ethos. ''In so many ways, today, Shepard Fairey is the artist to beat,'' Sarah Jaye Williams writes in OBEY. E Pluribus Venom: The Art of Shepard Fairey (Gingko Press in association with Obey Giant, $29.95), an image-rich catalog of posters, prints and murals produced in 2007 for an exhibition originally shown at the Jonathan LeVine Gallery in New York. Why the artist to beat? Because in the past decade, Fairey has gone from posting street stickers and flyers on lampposts to hanging gigantic wall coverings in galleries and cultural institutions. 
 ''E Pluribus Venom'' highlights many of his common themes, including the antiwar posters ''Greetings From Iraq: Enjoy a Cheap Holiday in Other People's Misery'' and ''Obey Bayonets,'' which combines silhouetted bayonets (borrowed from a well-known British World War I poster) with a peace sign in a flower collaged on top. Many of Fairey's images overtly and obliquely address war and peace, the environment and the economy. But this collection includes something unique to his oeuvre -- immense murals that co-opt the classic filigree motif of stock certificates and American currency. Here we find two installations juxtaposed, ''Two Sides of Capitalism: Good'' and ''Two Sides of Capitalism: Bad,'' each bearing political slogans. (One reads ''Obedience Is the Most Valuable Currency'' and ''In Lesser Gods We Trust''; the other reads ''Power to the People.'' Guess which one is good.) The funniest and most stinging piece in the collection is ''Proud Parents.'' With the slogan ''U.S. Treasury: Bringing Dreams to Life,'' it shows a 1950s-style mom and dad holding their newborn -- a shiny baby bomb. Fairey is certainly one vandal who has made good. 
 Fairey's work is a sign of his times. But if you want to see a plethora of real signs from around the world, Signs: Lettering in the Environment, by Phil Baines and Catherine Dixon (Laurence King, paper, $19.95), provides an exhaustive survey of street signs and architectural inscriptions -- painted, tiled and engraved; on buildings, stores, gates and pavement; mass-produced, one-of-a-kind and stenciled with indelible dyes. Various other books have been devoted to the aesthetics of monument inscriptions or antique road and store signs, yet this is the most instructive comparative study I've read in connecting form to function. Signs are the most common form of graphic communication. When they fail, the design and designer are usually blamed; when they succeed, the graphic design is taken for granted. But as Baines and Dixon, both design educators in London, note in this fascinating collection, naming and lettering are interconnected. ''Naming and the use of lettering to identify specific locations are an essential part of negotiating our public environment,'' they argue. ''Our sense of place is not just about a pragmatic awareness of our spatial orientation. What we find is that more than just providing a literal identification of location, the essential dynamic between utility and expression allows for lettering to say something more about the spaces and places around us.'' In other words, signs tell us where we are and, every so often, who we are. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A man carrying rapeseed, from ''In the Footsteps of Abraham: The Holy Land in Hand-Painted Photographs.'' (pg.BR34)
From top: ''And You Shall Know Us by the Trail of Our Vinyl''
''NASA/Art: 50 Years of Exploration''
and the road as canvas in ''Signs: Lettering in the Environment.'' (pg.BR35)
 Pulp covers by Nick Powell and Evan Hunter from ''Dope Menace,'' top, and the installation ''War by Numbers'' from ''Obey: E Pluribus Venom.'' (pg.BR38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); LIBRARIES (68%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (68%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); HISTORY (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NETHERLANDS (74%)

TITLE: Signs: Lettering in the Environment (Book)>; Posters for the People (Book)>; NASA/Art (Book)>; Overspray (Book)>; Dope Menace (Book)>; And You Shall Know Us by the Trail of Our Vinyl (Book)>; In the Footsteps of Abraham (Book)>; OBEY: E Pluribus Venom (Book)>; Signs: Lettering in the Environment (Book)>; Posters for the People (Book)>; NASA/Art (Book)>; Overspray (Book)>; Dope Menace (Book)>; And You Shall Know Us by the Trail of Our Vinyl (Book)>; In the Footsteps of Abraham (Book)>; OBEY: E Pluribus Venom (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



207 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; GOOD EATING/LOWER EAST SIDE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Eternally Nocturnal

BYLINE: By KRIS ENSMINGER. 
Compiled by Kris Ensminger E-mail: eating@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Late-night revels are an enduring trait of New York's identity, and they last all year, especially through the holiday rush, and even in a recession. To those who keep the tradition alive, these Lower East Side restaurants beckon with meals long after midnight. And their prices will leave you with cab fare for the trip home toward dawn. 
 'Inoteca
 (212) 614-0473; 98 Rivington Street (Ludlow Street); $; Article: 4/27/05. 
 The menu at this popular Italian restaurant favors reasonably priced panini like speck, devoe pears, frisee and gorgonzola; as well as grilled mushrooms, mozzarella, pesto and spinach, and artisanal cheese plates. Food is served daily until 3 a.m.
 Katz's Delicatessen 
 (212) 254-2246; 205 East Houston Street (Ludlow Street); $; Review: 5/30/07.
 This king of New York delis has been around since 1888. The pastrami sandwich, one of the best in the land, is served in the intricate ritual unique to Katz's: the taking of a ticket at the door; the lining up in front of one of the servers who carve the beef by hand; and the tasting of the thick, ridged slices the server gives you as the sandwich is built. Katz's is open until 3 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
 Paladar
 (212) 473-3535; 161 Ludlow Street (Stanton Street); $; $25 and Under: 9/26/01.
 A long bar is the centerpiece of a narrow pastel dining room. The menu emphasizes Mexican and Caribbean dishes. Seafood is a highlight, like roasted mahi-mahi in an orange-chili vinaigrette over coconut-flavored rice. A late-night menu, served until 2. a.m. Friday and Saturday, features inexpensive dishes like empanadas filled with chicken picadillo; Peruvian-style skewers; and tropical shrimp ceviche.
 Schiller's Liquor Bar
 (212) 260-4555; 131 Rivington Street (Norfolk Street); $; $25 and Under: 12/10/03. 
 At Schiller's, one of the pioneer restaurants on Rivington, Keith McNally and his team of chefs from Balthazar and Pastis have created an international hipster commissary out of the staples of pub, bistro, trattoria, tapas bar and diner. A late supper menu is served until 1 a.m. Sunday through Wednesday, 2 a.m. Thursday and 3 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
 Stanton Social 
 (212) 995-0099; 99 Stanton Street (Ludlow Street); $; Review: 6/15/05. 
 With a festive spirit, the Stanton Social serves potato pirogi alongside zucchini tempura, meatballs in tomato sauce next to beef Wellington, raw bar selections and sliders. The kitchen is open until 2 a.m. Sunday through Wednesday and 3 a.m. Thursday through Saturday.
 Compiled by Kris Ensminger E-mail: eating@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (90%); MEAT STORES (74%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (69%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



208 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Politics Didn't Doom the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT. 
Ross Douthat, a senior editor at The Atlantic, is a co-author of ''Grand New Party: How Republicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 AN iron law of recent American politics dictates that any Republican setback at the polls will be quickly pinned on the pro-life movement. You might think that the Republican Party's 2008 debacle would be an exception to this rule. John McCain probably mentioned earmarks about a thousand times more often than he let the word ''abortion'' slip his lips. The Republican ticket's weak attempts to play the culture-war card -- a Bill Ayers here, a Joe the Plumber there -- had nothing whatsoever to do with Roe v. Wade. And why should abortion opponents, of all conservative factions, take the blame for the financial meltdown, or the bungled occupation of Iraq, or the handling of Hurricane Katrina? 
 But never mind. Pro-choice Republicans, in particular, know exactly whom to blame for their party's showing. As Christie Whitman, the former New Jersey governor and Bush administration E.P.A. chief, explained after the election, it lost because ''the party was taken hostage by 'social fundamentalists,' the people who base their votes on such social issues as abortion.'' 
 The conservative columnist Kathleen Parker made the same point more vividly: ''The evangelical, right-wing, oogedy-boogedy branch of the G.O.P. is what ails the erstwhile conservative party.'' The neoconservative writer Max Boot was diffident about the matter (''I don't think Republicans need to panic,'' he wrote, but ''one area where I do see some room for adjustment is on the issue of abortion'') and the right-wing humorist P. J. O'Rourke was blunt (pro-lifers should ''give the issue a rest''). The message is clear: If the Republican Party would only jettison its position on abortion, it would be back on its feet in no time.
 For pro-lifers, these refrains are as frustrating as they are familiar. But more frustrating than the blame game is the equally familiar advice that has accompanied it. Most abortion opponents can recite the litany by heart. Their movement should focus on changing hearts and minds, rather than the law. It should be more consistently pro-life, by helping human beings outside the womb as well as those within it. It should cease trying to roll back the sexual revolution and standing athwart science yelling ''stop!'' And above all, it should be less absolutist, and more amenable to compromise.
 Obviously there's wisdom in some of these suggestions. But pro-lifers have already taken much of it to heart. Compromise, rather than absolutism, has been the watchword of anti-abortion efforts for some time now. Since the early 1990s, advocates have focused on pushing largely modest state-level restrictions, from parental notification laws to waiting periods to bans on what we see as the grisliest forms of abortion. 
 The culture of (sometimes violent) protest that once defined the movement is largely a thing of the past: Pay a visit to any locus of anti-abortion sentiment -- an evangelical megachurch, say, or a conservative Catholic parish -- and you'll find that the bulk of pro-life energy is being channeled into grassroots efforts, from crisis pregnancy centers to post-abortion counseling, that seek to reduce the abortion rate one woman and one child at a time.
 Over the same period, pro-lifers -- especially in the evangelical community -- have broadened their movement's ambit, emphasizing poverty, the environment and other non-abortion ''life issues'' more consistently than an earlier generation did. Leading pro-life figures like Rick Warren are more likely to be photographed touring poor nations alongside Bono than protesting outside abortion clinics. Apart from its Supreme Court appointments, the Bush administration policy most influenced by pro-life sentiment was probably its AIDS-in-Africa initiative.
 As for the movement's supposed antipathy to science and social change -- well, no doubt you'll find more believers in young-earth creationism or divinely ordained patriarchy at a pro-life rally than you would at the Harvard Faculty Club. But here, too, the easy stereotypes are increasingly detached from reality. 
 For example, we're coming off a decade in which pro-lifers responded to the embryonic stem-cell controversy by becoming better versed in the relevant science than their miracle-cure-promising opponents. They insisted, presciently, that scientific advances with non-fetal stem cells, rather than legal restrictions, would eventually offer a way forward. And we're coming off an election in which pro-lifers rallied eagerly around Sarah Palin, a working mother whose family structure -- from her Mr. Mom husband to her pregnant, unwed daughter -- reflected post-feminist realities rather than an Ozzie-and-Harriet nostalgia trip.
 So the question isn't whether the anti-abortion movement can change, adapt and compromise. It's already done that. The question is whether it can afford to compromise on the national issue that keeps serious pro-lifers in the Republican fold, and requires an abortion litmus test for Republican presidential nominees -- namely, the composition of the courts. And here the pro-life movement is essentially trapped -- not by its own inflexibility, but by the inflexibility of the Supreme Court's abortion jurisprudence. 
 In theory, there are many middle grounds imaginable in America's abortion wars, from bans that make exceptions for rape and fetal deformities to legal systems modeled on the French system, in which abortion is available but discouraged in the first 10 weeks and sharply restricted thereafter. 
 The public is amenable to compromise: majorities support keeping abortion legal in some cases, but polling by CBS News and The Times during the presidential campaign showed that more Americans supported new restrictions on abortion than said it should be available on demand. And while some pro-lifers would reject any bargain, many more would be delighted to strike a deal that extends legal protection to more of the unborn, even if it stopped short of achieving the movement's ultimate goals. 
 But no such compromise is possible so long as Roe v. Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey remain on the books. These decisions are monuments to pro-choice absolutism, and for pro-lifers to accept them means accepting that no serious legal restrictions on abortion will ever be possible -- no matter what the polls say, and no matter how many hearts and minds pro-lifers change. 
 Overturning Roe and Casey has never been an easy task, and the election of Barack Obama will make it that much more difficult. Facing a hostile governing majority, pro-lifers can and should talk more about the possibility of compromise: They should explain, more often and more cogently, that if Americans want laws that better reflect their muddled sentiments on abortion, it is pro-choice maximalism, not the pro-life movement, that's really standing in the way. 
 But so long as the Supreme Court remains closely divided, and a post-Roe world remains in reach, the movement's basic political task must remain the same. Not because pro-lifers are absolutists who reject compromise, but because any real compromise will always depend on overturning Roe. Giving up on this goal would mean giving up the movement's very purpose, while gaining nothing in return. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); RELIGION (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%); HOSTAGE TAKING (52%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



209 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Letters: The Tesla Technology

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In describing Tesla Motors' development of electric cars (Digital Domain, Nov. 30), it's important to emphasize that the Tesla Roadster is already designed, is in production and is being delivered to customers. Investors and customers funded that project and don't need any help from taxpayers. 
 Tesla is applying for a loan under a federal program to encourage car companies to improve fuel economy. The loan applications are for two new projects: drivetrain production for other car manufacturers and development of Tesla's next vehicle, a five-passenger sports sedan costing about $50,000 after tax credits. 
 These two projects build toward Tesla's third vehicle, a $30,000 all-electric family sedan. 
 It takes time and capital to build a mass-market production car. Tesla's plan is to get there by starting with low-production vehicles that are competitive in their market segment, building production capability and lowering costs to enter the mass market. Tom Saxton
 Sammamish, Wash., Dec. 1
 The writer is buying a Tesla Roadster.
 To the Editor:
 Tesla Motors has the right idea. But only when the major carmakers truly commit to electric cars and then start showing consumers the advantages can we expect broad-based demand.
 While it is well for governments to legislate incentives for electric vehicle production, governments cannot make consumers embrace the necessary changes in their buying habits. The manufacturers need to offer education in this regard.
 Many people erroneously equate electric vehicles with golf carts or think that because electrics are ''green,'' they are underpowered. But electric motors can offer amazing performance and drivability, with fundamental advantages. In fact, leading the charge to market are companies like Tesla that focus on high performance.
 In selling electric vehicles, all manufacturers should give consumers an opportunity to drive one and experience the difference. Iain Dobson
 Cleveland, Dec. 3
 The writer is senior vice president of Automotive Events, a marketing and event planning company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); WRITERS (78%); SEDANS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); EVENT MARKETING (70%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (66%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (92%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



210 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: What's Left When the Last Penny's Gone

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
TALK to a bankruptcy lawyer for a few minutes -- just pick a firm from one of the big ads in the phone book -- and you'll hear the stories of outlandish fiscal recklessness, of clients with moderate incomes and three mortgaged houses, or with multiple credit cards and tens of thousands of dollars in debt. 
 The lawyers have been at the center of the spiraling economy for months, and they saw the causes and symptoms earlier than most. 
 ''We have clients that could barely pay for food in their refrigerator, and they would be coming down Park Avenue in a brand new Escalade,'' Mark Jay Heller, of Heller & Heller, a Midtown firm, said with awe in his voice as he recalled the overleveraged days of easy credit. ''I looked at it and I said to myself, we, as an economy and as a financially troubled country, are going to have the bottom fall out.''
 Of course, it did. And what now strikes those who deal with bankruptcy is not the craziness of some of the stories but the sheer volume of the mundane ones. Mr. Heller has seen business double in the past six months. Jeffrey Peltz, a lawyer in Downtown Brooklyn, said last week that bankruptcy filings handled by his office were up 40 percent over last year -- and climbing, as the national unemployment rate rose to 6.7 percent in November.
 The story of profligate living and a sharp crash always gets the attention, Mr. Peltz said. But, he added: ''Most people who get into debt aren't like this. They lost their job, or they broke up with someone, or they weren't getting overtime anymore.''
 Bankruptcy, in those cases, is less a crash than a long, sickening slide. The stories are all different, but as the number of filings has increased -- up 39 percent nationwide from November 2007 through last month, the American Bankruptcy Institute reports -- they have become as monotonously familiar as they are prevalent. 
 The trouble began early this year for Estelle, a 55-year-old administrative worker who lives in Forest Hills, Queens, and asked to be identified only by her middle name because, like many others interviewed, she finds her situation embarrassing. That was when she lost her job at the Manhattan bank where she had worked for more than 20 years. She could pay her bills for a few months, but not, it turned out, for the more than six months that she has spent unemployed.
 She has seen job fairs with lines around the block, she said, and she greeted the news on Monday that the country has officially been in a recession since last December with weary sarcasm.
 ''Really? Isn't that great?'' she said dryly. ''Gosh, you should have told me.''
 Bankruptcy arrived for her after a long struggle to avoid it. ''Bills getting unpaid, when you've borrowed more than you should from friends and you just can't do it anymore,'' she said. ''Then you have no other options.''
 Others arrived at the same place via different paths. Lenora Vasquez, a single mother from Bushwick, Brooklyn, was working for the city making highway repairs when she fell behind on bills, then got injured and missed more work; soon her wages were being garnished. Thalia, from East New York, Brooklyn, lost a job in a bank branch three years ago, then lost control of her credit card spending amid unplanned developments, including a death in the family. 
 ''You just sit there and you think about it, and you just want to cry,'' she said during a break from her new job as a hospital clerk. ''You say, 'Why did you do this to yourself?' ''
 The main consolation, she said, is the hope of getting out from under stifling debt. 
 Jennifer White-Davis of Bushwick, who filed for bankruptcy in the spring after struggling for years to overcome what she called youthful irresponsibility with credit cards, said the process had taught her to live without credit. Now, she said, ''I feel I can breathe again.''
 But though Estelle, in Forest Hills, has filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy papers and has already attended one mandated personal finance class, she is still pessimistic. 
 ''I thought I would have a feeling of relief, but I don't,'' she said. ''My friends say, 'You did the best you could -- at least you don't have to worry about it.' I say, it's not that easy. It's still there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LAWYERS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); OVERTIME (75%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); DISMISSALS (63%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



211 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Who's That Familiar Face in the Kitchen?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''No Chefs in My Kitchen,'' by Marcella Hazan (Op-Ed, Nov. 29):
 ''Don't call me chef'' is what I said for most of my 18 years as a professional cook, after graduation from the Culinary Institute of America, and there was a good reason, too. I enjoyed the manual labor of cooking and was never interested in the managerial responsibilities associated with being an executive chef. 
 The peeling of potatoes. The chopping of onions. The sauteing of fish and the roasting of meats. Becoming the chief go-to person and decision maker never interested me. Chefs, in my experience, were too often meeting with restaurant managers and taking bows for the labor of those who served on their brigades. Cooks? Culinary working-class heroes. Not an embarrassment but an achievement. 
 Perhaps Marcella Hazan needs to lighten up and consider the tenor of the times. If her hairdresser's husband, who works as an electrician, enjoys being referred to as a chef by his wife -- then hooray for him. Maybe getting recognized as the chef of the house brings the husband joy if there are fewer service calls as an electrician because of our stagnant economy.
 In time, that electrician (like others) will explain how he got through this era. His explanation could start with the phrase ''it was the best of times and the worst of times'' before emphasizing the relief he found in pretending to be a chef while grilling in the backyard on the weekends.
 Robert Remler Port Washington, N.Y., Nov. 30, 2008
 To the Editor:
 While I agree with Marcella Hazan that the title of ''chef'' is an unfit synonym for ''cook,'' I don't believe that the culture of the recreational ''chef''' runs contrary to society's well-being or to human connectedness, as she suggests.
 Today's usage of ''chef'' empowers amateurs like the electrician husband of Ms. Hazan's hairdresser and is reinvigorating the home-cooking experience. It is injecting, as Ms. Hazan notes, ''entertainment, spectacle, news, fashion, science'' into personal cooking, thereby more deeply engaging the average person in food preparation.
 While there is beauty in the simplicity of food and title of ''cook'' that Ms. Hazan advocates, a three-dimensional awareness of our world as expressed in imaginative fare represents the 21st century with integrated perspectives and interests, and engenders a closer connection to our world and one another. 
 Rebecca R. Ruiz New York, Nov. 29, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Oh, come on, Marcella.
 So what if your hairdresser proudly and lovingly called her husband a ''chef,'' albeit naively. You've got it a bit backward.
 Home cooks know they're not chefs. The real problem lies with the professional chefs and famous cookbook authors and reviewers themselves, who have made their professions into ''entertainment, spectacle, news, fashion, science,'' consequently raising prices and thereby prohibiting those who hate to cook (or who want a break from home cooking) from enjoying a ''simple'' meal in a nice restaurant.
 Joanne Rocklin Oakland, Calif., Nov. 30, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Hail to the cook Marcella Hazan for her refreshing and much-needed article, ''No Chefs in My Kitchen.''
 In this age of celebrity chefs, restaurant-grade appliances and gourmet supermarkets, many are under the delusion that producing chef-quality cuisine is easily within their grasp. 
 My wife grew up in the Brazilian culture of cooks. She observed women preparing delicious meals in rustic kitchens with basic ingredients. Often my wife is asked how she prepared a particular dish, and her response is always the same: ''It is made with love.''
 Michael J. Mouracade White Plains, Nov. 30, 2008
 To the Editor:
 If any husband wants to cook and be called a chef, all I can say is, Thank you and welcome to the kitchen.
 The only concern I have with husbands calling themselves chefs is that their egos will not allow them to clean up. Now that is something Marcella Hazan should write about. If you want to be called a chef, then you also have to clean up after you cook.
 Antonia DeLuca Franklin Lakes, N.J., Nov. 29, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FILIP PAGOWSKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



212 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; 2009 SKI GUIDE NEXT STOP; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: Reaching New Heights in British Columbia

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
IT started on Revelstoke's North Bowl, a heavenly slope of knee-deep powder and big open expanse once traversed by only a small band of hard-core heli-skiers. Then the bowl gave way to a narrow chute that slices through an ice-encrusted pine forest and a steep glade that framed dramatic vistas of the Columbia Range. 
 First-timers might mistake a meandering snowmobile path for the bottom, but it's not even close. Next up was a trail as finely groomed as a seersucker suit, with lots of heart-stopping dips and vertiginous turns. But it was still nowhere near the finish. A gently sloped cruiser curved and wended its way through dense forests that occasionally offered more views of the Columbia River Valley below. And then a final drop, a zigzagging course that would leave most skiers -- and other resorts -- breathless. 
 Total length of the run: about six miles. Time it took to get down: 45 minutes. 
 Skiing Revelstoke used to require a Herculean effort: a chopper, a pilot and at least $600 -- and that's for a single run. Situated in the boondocks of British Columbia, about six hours northeast of Vancouver by car, Revelstoke has long been considered the heli-skiing capital of the world. Blessed with a half-million acres of snow-blanketed ridges, the mountain is revered by extreme skiers as a kind of Alpine promised land -- much the way surfers talk about Oahu's North Shore. Even its name evokes a whiff of masculine daredevilry.
 Now, following decades of fits and false starts, the mountain opened to the masses last winter, with a new gondola, a high-speed lift and 1,500 acres of skiable terrain, enabling anyone with skis to reach the heights of Mount Mackenzie without the aid of helicopters or snowcats.
 For its second season, which began Nov. 27, Revelstoke doubled in size to a little more than 3,000 skiable acres and extended its gondola so that it now offers 5,620 vertical feet of continuous skiing, knocking Whistler off its perch for the continent's longest vertical drop. Throw in plans for a base village with 2,900 condominiums and 2,000 hotel rooms -- plus a total of 10,000 acres of skiing, the most of any single-mountain ski resort this side of the Alps -- and Revelstoke is surely the biggest news to hit the North American slopes in years.
 ''Here, you can ski a 2,000-foot bowl and a 2,000-foot tree run, all in the same run,'' said David Scott, a local mountain guide. ''You can't find that anywhere else in the world.'' 
 It's not just about the vertical drop. Revelstoke is blessed with snow, lots of it. Set amid the majestic peaks of the Selkirk Mountains, Revelstoke sits along the U-shaped Columbia Valley at just the right altitude -- the base is at 2,000 feet -- which means it is pounded with 40 to 60 feet of snow annually. By contrast, Aspen gets about 25 feet of snow a year. 
 Indeed, fresh snow fell on Revelstoke most of last January, which made its first season that much sweeter. Even in late March, the mountain was still smothered under a thick blanket of snow.
 On a cold Saturday morning, a trickle of skiers from as far away as France made the pilgrimage along the Trans-Canada Highway, up a frozen switchback lined with construction cranes and into a makeshift lodge with a junky-looking corrugated roof. Notably absent were screaming children being shipped off to snow school. This was a crowd of serious skiers: gear heads dressed like characters from a Jon Krakauer book in colorful Patagonia jackets and equipped with polyester balaclavas and emergency shovels who had come to see what the buzz was all about. 
 They were not disappointed. It was an adventure just getting to the top: from the base lodge, they hopped on a gondola that zipped up 3,000 feet, switched to a high-speed quad that pierced through the treeline another 2,000 feet, and then clicked out of their skis -- and that was the easy part. Next, they marched single-file like an Alpine chain gang, up a 300-foot vertigo-inducing cliff delineated with yellow avalanche warning signs. 
 The climb took about a half-hour, but was well worth the effort. Above, nothing but Canadian blue sky. Below, 1,500 acres of fresh powder. It was easy to feel small and insignificant.
 The cedars and spruces seemed to be perfectly spaced, allowing even the most average of skiers to shimmy through them like Bode Miller. Plus, there were no novices in sight. 
 It helps that 45 percent of the trails are black diamonds, and 45 percent are blue; but don't be fooled by the blues and even the greens -- the bunny slopes are as menacing as the hardest trails found on dinkier Northeast resorts. That will change this season, as the mountain opens another 900 acres of intermediate terrain. Meanwhile, the whir of a helicopter or snarl of a snowcat can often be heard overhead, reminding skiers of the local pecking order.
 When you finally reach the base, your ears will need popping and your legs may need a rubdown. After all, the six-mile descent would take even an expert skier at least 20 minutes to finish. As one snowboarder noted while catching his breath, ''This place needs waffle stands along the sides.'' 
 But this season, much of the real action is taking place off-slope, in the base village and the sleepy mining town that gives the resort its name. The town of Revelstoke, nestled along the mighty Columbia River, has about 8,000 residents who live on a quiet grid of modest Victorian homes, tumbledown bungalows and motor lodges. 
 It is a world apart from the multimillion-dollar trophy homes with hot tubs and heated driveways that are multiplying along the base of the ski resort, just five minutes away by rusty pickup. At the center of this village is the Nelsen Lodge, an glass-and-timber complex that functions as both base lodge and upscale hotel, resembling something Bill Gates might live in with its caramel-colored Nordic architecture, swooping roofline and helipad. 
 BUT Revelstoke has not been immune to the current economic downturn. There have been reports in the local press of recent reshuffling of the resort's ownership. According to Don Simpson, a Denver-based real estate developer and one of the principal investors, a greater share of the mountain will be managed by Northland Properties, a Vancouver-based hospitality company. 
 The slumping real estate market has also slowed housing sales. Fewer than two-thirds of the 50 slopeside lots that were listed for between 700,000 and 1.15 million Canadian dollars (about $543,000 to $891,000 at $1.29 to the Canadian dollar) have been sold. Fewer than half of the 24 luxury town houses, near a planned 18-hole golf course, have found buyers. And the opening of Nelsen Lodge, originally set for this month, has been pushed back until at least February, missing the critical holidays. 
 Another problem is getting to Revelstoke. The mountain had hoped to bring commercial flights this winter into Revelstoke Airport, a small runway down the hill from the resort that can handle 30-seater planes. But a deal with Hawk Air fell through because of the bad economy. 
 So visitors must either take a weekly charter flight from Calgary on Powder Air, which costs more than $600 for a one-hour flight. Or fly into Kelowna or Kamloops, each about a two- or two-and-a-half-hour drive away. 
 There's another knock against Revelstoke: little apres-ski activity. While a few cafes and a sushi bar, Frisby Ridge Teriyaki, have opened in recent years, night life in Revelstoke otherwise consists of bowling a few frames, ordering milkshakes at the local Denny's or watching hockey at a handful of dive bars. 
 On a bitterly cold Saturday night last March, a few shaggy-haired townies could be found shooting pool at the River City Pub and listening to a classic-rock band play in front of an empty dance floor. The slow-paced streets were otherwise devoid of life. 
 That seems to be fine by many residents, who like to say that Revelstoke is known for good skiing, not good partying. 
 ''The town is virtually the same, except we got a brand-new ski hill,'' said Carlo Rogano, a local rail worker who retired to become a ski bum. ''There's something like 13 helicopter lodges in this area -- that's got to tell you something.'' 
 THE WAY TO THE LIFTS
 HOW TO GET THERE
 Revelstoke is not easy to get to from New York. A good option is to book a flight through Alaska Airlines to Kelowna, British Columbia (with a change of planes, often in Seattle), then drive to Revelstoke, about two to two and a half hours. A recent Web search found flights starting at around $600 in December and January. 
 For those with more money to spend, fly to Calgary and then catch the weekly Powder Air (www.powderair.com) charter flight to Revelstoke Airport. Fares on Powder Airstart at 790 Canadian dollars, about $612 at $1.29 to the Canadian dollar, and 890 dollars from Jan. 24. 
 WHERE TO STAY
 Until the resort's Nelsen Lodge (www.thenelsenlodge.com) opens, as early as mid-February, you'll have to stay in the town of Revelstoke. 
 The most central location is the Regent Inn (112 First Street East; 888-245-5523; www.regentinn.com), with 50 adequate rooms starting at 169 dollars. 
 A cozier choice is the Inn on the River (523 Third Street West; 250-837-3262; www.innontheriverbc.com), a two-suite guesthouse with views of Mount Begbie, an outdoor hot tub and gregarious owners who may invite you to their barbecue. Winter rates start at 120 dollars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEFT: Black diamonds rule the slopes of Mount Mackenzie.
 BELOW LEFT: Taking a breather on Mount Mackenzie, once reached only by helicopter or snowcat.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENNY LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of MT. MACKENZIE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); HELICOPTERS (77%); RESORTS (74%); EXTREME SPORTS (72%); SKIING FACILITIES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ALPS (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



213 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; PUBLIC SAFETY STAMFORD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: In Stamford Firehouses, A Battle for Control

BYLINE: By FRAN SILVERMAN

DATELINE: STAMFORD 

 BODY:
 FOR decades, volunteer firefighters in Connecticut's fourth-largest city have fought blazes in their districts alongside paid city firefighters.
 It is an arrangement not uncommon in Connecticut, where home rule and volunteerism have been a hallmark of the many small towns and cities here.
 But in Stamford, tensions between the two sides have been simmering for a decade as officials have worked to assert more control over the city's firefighting operations. That tension boiled over in the past year when the city presented a plan to reduce some of the volunteer departments' budgets and put paid city firefighters who have been stationed in some of the volunteer firehouses under the control of the city's fire chief.
 Two of the city's five volunteer firehouses, whose histories date back more than 70 years, have filed lawsuits against the city to halt that effort. The two, Turn of River and Belltown, which had both volunteer and paid firefighters, are now all volunteer. The city has set up temporary fire outposts in trailers and tents within walking distance of the Turn of River firehouses so paid firefighters can also respond to calls. The split of locations marks deep fissures among the mayor of this growing Fairfield County city, its volunteer fire corps and its paid city staff. 
 Frank Jacobellis, chief of Turn of River department, said, ''Every time we turn around, we are fighting to do something for free. It doesn't make any sense.''
 The standoff has pointed to the difficulties facing towns and cities that are trying to bring their split systems into one, in an effort to save money and to bring a uniform direction to their firefighting units.
 ''There is a tremendous amount of identity associated with volunteer departments and when you threaten that identity, when you feel you are going to be absorbed into a larger organization or disbanded, it generates a sense of loss of that identity and people will fight for that,'' said David Dagon, the fire chief in Mansfield, who spent years working through the issues of consolidating the town's two volunteer departments into a municipal department.
 Mayor Dannel P. Malloy said that Stamford's plan would save more than $500,000 in its 2008-9 budget and prevent layoffs.
 ''Each step of the way we've been driven by holding costs down and increasing public safety,'' he said. ''And each of the steps that have been taken have been taken after long attempts at negotiation and mediation.''
 There are 169 municipalities in the state but more than 300 fire departments, and among them, countless volunteers. Each volunteer fire department operates differently. Some have their own distinct charters and the ability to raise money from their own separate taxing districts; others are financed by municipalities.
 As firehouses found it increasingly difficult to recruit enough volunteers available during daylight hours, and their neighborhoods became more densely populated, many moved to combinations of paid and volunteer personnel.
 In Stamford, the city has its own Fire and Rescue Department and five volunteer departments in its outlying and suburban areas. Over the years, paid career firefighters were hired at the volunteer departments, and those departments became known as combined firehouses.
 Until recently, the paid career firefighters who worked in the volunteer houses had separate labor agreements with their firehouses than the city firefighters who worked for the city's Fire and Rescue Department.
 The lawsuits filed by Belltown and Turn of River are among more than half a dozen filed by volunteer departments over several years that have challenged the city's attempts to take control of paid personnel, budget and staffing requirements. 
 Turn of River filed suit in June 2007 in Stamford Superior Court to prevent threatened city layoffs of paid firefighters in its firehouse. It filed another suit in 2008 in Bridgeport Superior Court, as did Belltown, to prevent the city from cutting its budgets. All three lawsuits are still pending. 
 But city leaders say the lawsuits will not deter them from trying to gain more oversight of the city's fire protection, and of its own personnel.
 ''They want to maintain control over firefighters and want to say how much they need,'' Mayor Malloy said of the volunteer fire chiefs. ''But we are never going back to that system. We won't have paid employees at the discretion of those volunteer departments anymore. They will be in single union with a single bargaining agent reporting to a single fire command, and we'll do the hiring.''
 Turn of River and Belltown volunteers say that under the city's plans, there will be nothing left for the volunteers to do and eventually, they might be edged out of service completely.
 ''I think ultimately what the mayor wants will result in nothing but paid firefighters,'' said Mark J. Kovack, an attorney for Turn of River who filed the lawsuits.
 The disputes and complex arrangements with the firehouses have left a tangled network of coverage in this city of about 120,000 residents and confusion about basic questions like the number of fire stations and firefighters in each of the houses. The city has about 280 paid firefighters, who work in the five city stations and in some of the volunteer departments. 
 The number of volunteers, say city and volunteer officials, is hard to tally because volunteers have different levels of participation and each fire house has several categories of volunteers. City officials and volunteers also don't always agree on who qualifies as a volunteer.
 ''There would seem to be the question as to whether all active members have current certifications, accompanied by doubts that all members characterized as active truly are fit to respond to calls,'' William S. Callion Jr., director of the city's Office of Public Safety, Health and Welfare, wrote in an e-mail message. 
 Turn of River, for example, has 32 active volunteers, but the roster swells to more than 70 when all of its volunteers are counted, its fire officials say. 
 Volunteers in Belltown and Turn of River say the city's cuts have left them in debt, and they fear they will not be able to keep operating in coming months.
 ''It's going to be tough. We have volunteers paying $1,000 out of their pocket for training. We've had to remove some trucks out of service because we can't afford repairs. We have roof leaks. Guys will have to bring in their own toilet paper,'' said Aaron Lee, president of Turn of River, who started in the firehouse at 16. 
 Mr. Lee, 32, who is a security adviser for an airline, said he enjoyed the camaraderie the firehouse provides and the chance to give back to his neighborhood.
 ''I was raised to give back to my community. There is a lot of small town in this big city and the firehouse really is a second family,'' Mr. Lee said.
 In the Belltown Volunteer Fire Department, Chief John Didelot, who has fought fires there for more than 30 years, blames the city for forcing its budget plan on the volunteers and said union workers sometimes view volunteers as rivals who are taking away paid spots.
 ''It could get to a point where basically you lock the door and go home,'' Chief Didelot said. ''When the money runs out and you have to let your insurance lapse, everything is in jeopardy.''
 Brendan Keatley, president of the Stamford Professional Fire Fighters Association Local 786, said the issue comes down to clarifying the role of volunteers in a changing city environment.
 ''There has to be a standard level of response citywide,'' Mr. Keatley said. ''And there is a place for volunteers in the system, but they just need to define their place.''
 State Fire Administrator Jeffrey Morrissette said more municipalities could be facing the issues raised in Stamford as the recession forces them to look for savings through consolidation. Stamford illustrates that change can be slow, he said.
 ''There is a lot of emotion that is built up into that type of situation,'' Mr. Morrissette said. ''There are long-standing traditions and modes of operation which are being changed. Any time you introduce change, you have to manage it well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SATELLITE: Temporary stations in Stamford illustrate the dispute. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 TO PROTECT AND SERVE: Frank Jacobellis is chief of the Turn of River all-volunteer fire department. One of the city's temporary stations, below, staffed with paid firefighters, is near one of the Turn of River's houses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (91%); VOLUNTEERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); LAYOFFS (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (60%); LITIGATION (53%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



214 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK 2009 DODGE CHALLENGER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Sheep in Wolf's Clothing

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI

 BODY:
TESTED 2009 Dodge Challenger SE 
 WHAT IS IT? A remember-when sporty coupe modeled on Dodge's notable pony car of 1970.
 HOW MUCH? Base price $22,545; as tested $26,735. 
 WHAT MAKES IT RUN? 3.5-liter V-6 with 250 horsepower and 250 pound-feet of torque; 4-speed automatic transmission. 
 IS IT THIRSTY? The E.P.A. rating is 17 miles a gallon in the city, 25 on the highway. 
 ALTERNATIVESFord Mustang V-6, Honda Accord coupe, Mitsubishi Eclipse GT, Nissan Altima coupe. 
 IF you want to feel really special, you barely have to drive the 2009 Challenger. Just park it in your driveway and wait for the crowds. Believe me, it will be as if you built a baseball field in the middle of Iowa. People will come.
 I spent a week with the Challenger SE, the 6-cylinder little brother of the SRT8, with a 425-horsepower Hemi V-8, and the R/T, with 372 Hemi horses. I was gawked at more than Lady Godiva. ''Wow,'' said one man as he took a cellphone picture, ''I just love American muscle.''
 What he didn't notice is that he could have kicked sand in the face of the SE, a 90-pound weakling with a V-6 engine, the equivalent of the base Ford Mustang. But America's muscle car heritage was not built on 6 cylinders, so you may feel the need to apologize to your fans that you're not driving the real deal.
 And people will notice. The SE lacks the dual exhaust of the V-8, the Hemi hood badge and the prominent chrome gas cap that mimics the original Challenger's. 
 Still, if you ignore the engine and the cosmetics, the SE is a competent car. It has enough power for highway merging, the transmission is old-school (with just four forward gears) but smooth, the ride is comfortable and the retro gauges are gorgeous. The car seats five, with adequate legroom front and back. (It is almost 6 inches longer than the original Challenger.)
 The 6-cylinder Mustang that I tested for comparison had a clunky 5-speed automatic transmission. The Ford seats only four and the back is snug. Worst of all, the dashboard looked like cheap plastic. It's as if the designers took their bows on the beautiful exterior, then let Mattel do the inside.
 Both cars have a significant omission: they don't have electronic stability control, a bit of technical wizardry that helps to prevent skids. The Mustang doesn't offer it at all, but at least on the Challenger SE it's available in an option package -- one that adds almost $2,800 to the price.
 You really have to ask yourself then, why buy the SE? It's a nice ride, but there are other coupes with standard stability control in its price range.
 I know, you're not going to feel like a rock star in an Altima or Accord as you will in the Challenger. It's obvious that the SE is for people who want the thrill of owning a Challenger without paying $42,000 for the SRT8 or dealing with its combined fuel economy rating of 15 m.p.g.
 So consider this: The mileage of the midlevel Challenger R/T is 16/25, almost identical to the SE's. That's because the R/T has more gears and its cylinder-shutoff system lets its Hemi run on 4 cylinders when 8 aren't needed.
 The R/T also comes with stability control, the cool gas cap, dual exhausts, a Hemi badge and absolutely no reason to stammer excuses. And instead of the SRT8's $17,000 price premium over the SE with stability control, the R/T's premium is about $5,000. That puts the R/T, at $30,545, in the same ballpark as the 6-cylinder Accord coupe. JAMES SCHEMBARI 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BODY DOUBLE: The V-6 Dodge Challenger has the curves, but not the muscle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (78%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (78%); COSMETICS (72%); BASEBALL (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



215 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: A Project's Foes Never Asked for This

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
After months of clanging hammers, coughing cement trucks and shouting construction workers, Tulfan Terrace, a leafy dead-end lane in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, has been quiet since 2006. But it has not been a welcome quiet.
The noise emanated from a condo tower that swallows up the southern half of the cul-de-sac. But after the developers fell into financial trouble that year, work on the project stopped. What remains looks like the cast-off toy of a distracted giant: a 12-story skeleton with no exterior walls and a squat blue plywood fence encircling the rim. 
And now, the remaining residents of Tulfan Terrace are trying to adjust to the sights, sounds and hassles of a real estate boom gone bust. For James Weeks, 56, that means picking up construction debris that blows into his lawn from the empty building. For Naomi Gans, 70, it means shooing away the raccoons that have moved into the lot across the street. And for Edward Bell, 63, it means gazing from his bay window at a ghostly hulk.
''They really ruined the neighborhood,'' Mr. Bell said, rocking in his tartan-print easy chair. ''It was horrible having the work and the noise. But that comes to an end. I would rather have them working toward an end.''
What is happening on Tulfan Terrace may well play out in other neighborhoods across the city as the recession causes more developers to abandon half-finished buildings because of bankruptcy, foreclosure or tight credit.
But there is an especially bitter back story to the darkened tower at Tulfan Terrace and Oxford Avenue. In 2004, there was a battle to prevent its construction that pitted neighbors who wanted to sell to the developer against neighbors who wanted to stay.
The developers pledged that a 30-unit tower with a private garden, fitness room and three-bedroom apartments selling for $800,000 to $1 million would bring young families to the aging neighborhood. But the opponents imagined disruptive construction, traffic problems and an end to the small-town flavor of their street.
Letters were written, lawyers consulted, feelings hurt. To no avail: After three homeowners on the south side of the street sold to the developers, the owners of the five remaining houses prepared for years of dust and noise.
But just as the concrete had been poured and the elevator was about to be installed, the project ran into problems. On May 24, 2006, the main financial backer on the project, James Murray, was indicted on federal charges of fraud, embezzlement and structuring financial deals to evade financial reporting requirements. Mr. Murray was believed to have fled to his native Ireland, but has returned to the United States. He is free on $8 million bail, court records show.
The lead developer, Robert Wagner, kept building, confident that another investor would want to be part of his luxury condo project on one of the highest points in the Bronx, with its panoramic views of the city's bridges.
That hasn't happened. The current holder of the roughly $10 million loan, Ox-3620 LLC, is waiting for the property to be foreclosed on. Then the corporation could become the new owner.
Jacob Selechnik, a consultant to Ox-3620 (named after the building's address, 3620 Oxford Avenue), said he planned to finish construction and convert the project into rentals.
''It's a magnificent building in a beautiful location,'' Mr. Selechnik said.
That is little solace to the residents of Tulfan Terrace, who grapple daily with the problems of the empty building next door and find themselves calling 311 routinely with complaints.
Ms. Gans had to clean up a piece of wallboard that blew off the building and landed near her car. She worries that people will sneak into the empty building, and called 311 when she saw gray and black graffiti on its fence. She has watched pieces of the fence blow down at least a half-dozen times. The scene just makes her feel gloomy.
''Before, you just get the dust and the dirt and the noise and whatever you get with a construction site. Now, you have the uncertainty,'' she said. ''I'm sitting at my computer and I just look at this mess.''
Mr. Weeks has picked up plywood, blueprints and mesh netting that have blown into his yard. From his front porch he can see families of raccoons lounging on the lower floors of the building, and in the summer, his wife, Ina Obernesser, 44, can smell the swampy scent of standing water at the site, breeding grounds for swarms of mosquitoes.
Mr. Weeks, a builder himself, says he understands that development can be a good thing. After he realized that he could not stop it next door, he met with the project manager and took an interest in things like the color of bricks. That has made it all the more frustrating that the project simply ended.
''It took a long time to make my peace with that,'' he said. ''Bring on the noise. Bring it back. We would just like to see it finished.''
Mr. Bell tries to focus on the neighborhood's better days. He keeps on the wall of a staircase a photograph of what the street used to look like. He points out the charming Tudor across the street where a family used to live. But now, he says, parents no longer want to walk their children past his house on Halloween.
''You wouldn't want your kids walking by an abandoned project,'' said Mr. Bell, who raised two children on the street and is now a grandfather.
Mr. Wagner, who lived in the neighborhood until a few years ago, says he feels bad about the unfinished project and still checks on it almost daily. He is waiting for construction platforms to be removed before making some repairs. He talks wistfully about how much good he thought the building would bring to the area. And he hopes to find an investor before the foreclosure, saying he believes the project will someday be completed.
''I feel terrible for the neighbors. Nobody wants to look at an unfinished building,'' he said. ''I could have never foretold the future. But the end result is so far from what anybody could have wanted.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The view from Edward Bell's house in the Bronx is the unfinished condo tower that pitted neighbor against neighbor when developers came calling to buy them out to build it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: ''A magnificent building in a beautiful location,'' says a man who hopes to see it finished. Map details Tulfan Terrace in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.(A47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOMEOWNERS (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); INDICTMENTS (60%); EMBEZZLEMENT (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



216 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; FLUSHING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: For Merchants, Fire Makes Bad Days Bleaker

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
THE buildings at 136-13 and 136-15 Roosevelt Avenue stood in the heart of the business district in Flushing, Queens, near the stops for the No. 7 train, the Long Island Rail Road and more than 20 bus lines. That is why, when a fire started in one of the buildings a little after 2 a.m. on Oct. 29, there were still people on the street who saw it burning. 
Cindy Wang, though, did not hear about the blaze until around 7 that morning, when her landlord called. Ms. Wang, an immigrant from Shanghai who owns the Fresh Air Tours and Travel company, had her office in one of the buildings, and she arrived at the scene to find that she had been wiped out.
''Everything is destroyed,'' she said by phone two weeks ago from her new office on 39th Avenue, a block from the old site, where she had relocated her company. ''Nothing left.''
Nobody was injured in the fire, the cause of which is still under investigation, said Jim Long, a Fire Department spokesman. But the buildings were damaged so extensively that they had to be torn down the next day. Crews were on the site until the end of last month, clearing debris and cleaning up.
The ground floors of the buildings held a Payless ShoeSource and a Taco Bell/Pizza Hut. For their owners and those of smaller businesses on the upper floors, the task now is to relocate and start over in the midst of the holiday season and at a time when the economy is weakening.
It is a predicament shared by the owners of the properties that sustained serious damage in a large warehouse fire in Astoria, Queens, on Nov. 22 and a three-alarm fire on Nov. 19 in a strip mall on Southern Boulevard in Morrisania in the Bronx. Ms. Wang said that even the smallest tasks were daunting.
''I need to buy the office supplies, like computers, everything,'' she said. ''It's very hard to get online right now. My customers cannot find me. Some of them have my cellphone, so they can find me, but others can't.''
Mabel Law, the executive director of the Downtown Flushing Transit Hub Business Improvement District, said the buildings' owners would meet with the city's Department of Small Business Services to learn about tax abatements for rebuilding on the site. A rebuilding plan, she said, could be ready in a few months.
As for the tenants, Ms. Law said the Business Improvement District had sent them a storefront vacancy list, helped them forward their phones to new locations and published their ads in its coupon book. The neighborhood, she said, is shaken.
''Two buildings were not only on fire, but had to be demolished right in front of our eyes, in a vibrant business district and with the holidays approaching,'' Ms. Law said. ''I would say that was pretty devastating.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Though Roosevelt Avenue is a busy shopping area, that is no help for shopkeepers in two buildings destroyed by a recent fire. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLISON JOYCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAILERS (85%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (66%); TAX LAW (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (57%); INVESTIGATIONS (52%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%); TACO BELL CORP (54%); PIZZA HUT INC (54%); PAYLESS SHOESOURCE INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



217 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Phasing Out A.P. Courses, Scarsdale High Ponders Result

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
SCARSDALE, N.Y. -- The Advanced Placement English class at Scarsdale High School used to race through four centuries of literature to prepare students for the A.P. exam in May. But in this year's class, renamed Advanced Topics, students spent a week studying Calder, Pissarro and Monet to digest the meaning of form and digressed to read essays by Virginia Woolf and Francis Bacon -- items not covered by the exam.
A similarly slowed-down pace came at a cost for some students in one of Scarsdale's Advanced Topics classes in United States history; it was still in the 1950s at the time of the exam, whose main essay question was on the Vietnam War.
Sarah Benowich, a senior, said that the A.T. approach had improved her writing but that she would have liked more dates and facts worked in. Despite studying Advanced Placement exam review books on her own, she still felt ''shaky on some of the more concrete details,'' she said. 
A year after Scarsdale became the most prominent school district in the nation to phase out the College Board's Advanced Placement courses -- and make A.P. exams optional -- most students and teachers here praise the change for replacing mountains of memorization with more sophisticated and creative curriculums.
More objective measurements have been mixed, with fewer students taking A.P. exams, and average scores rising in five Advanced Topics courses but dropping in two: United States history slipped to 4.2 out of 5 from 4.4 the year before (Sarah got a 4) and United States government fell to 3.4 from 3.8.
And despite concerns from some parents, 49 percent of the 2008 graduating class are attending the nation's most competitive colleges -- a group of about 80 schools identified by Barron's Profiles of American Colleges that includes the Ivy League -- compared with 45 percent in 2007.
More than half of the nation's high schools -- 12,605 public schools and 3,334 private schools -- offer at least one Advanced Placement course, and students take 2.6 million Advanced Placement exams in 37 subjects each year, generally earning college credit or placing out of entry-level classes for scores of 3 or above. Since their advent in 1955, A.P. exams have become both a virtual prerequisite for admission to elite colleges and a handy yardstick for measuring high-performing school districts.
A handful of exclusive private schools, including Ethical Culture Fieldston, Dalton and Calhoun in New York City, have abolished Advanced Placement courses in recent years, but Scarsdale has set a precedent for high-achieving public schools. It did so deliberately, investing $40,000 to bring in 25 professors from Harvard, Yale, New York University and other top colleges to help develop the Advanced Topics curriculum, and having guidance counselors contact admissions officers at 130 selective schools to explain the change and gauge any concerns.
''We have the luxury of being able to move beyond the A.P.,'' John Klemme, Scarsdale's principal, said in a recent interview. ''If people called it a gold curriculum in the past, I refer to this version as the platinum curriculum.''
For instance, art students have been newly liberated to draw large-scale works rather than adhere to the College Board's 18-by-24-inch parameters. Physics students now study string theory -- a hot topic in some college courses that is absent from the Advanced Placement exam. And the advanced government class takes a three-day field trip to conduct primary research at Harvard's Kennedy School, something teachers say would have been impossible with the intense Advanced Placement schedule.
The College Board, a nonprofit organization, derives about a third of its $600 million revenue annually from Advanced Placement exams, which cost students $86 each (schools can keep $8 of that fee to pay for proctors and professional development). Schools do not pay to run A.P. courses.
Trevor Packer, a College Board vice president, questioned why Scarsdale was ''pointing a finger'' when each school is responsible for designing its own A.P. curriculum, subject to the College Board's review. He rejected the notion that the Advanced Topics courses were better preparing students for college, and noted that Scarsdale continued to submit syllabuses from its Advanced Topics courses for review.
''To us, their courses don't look any different from high-quality A.P. courses,'' he said. ''Simply changing the letters on the course from A.P. to A.T. looks very cosmetic to us.''
Several teachers and administrators in Westchester County and Connecticut districts said last week that they had added depth to their courses within the A.P. framework.
The change has also drawn criticism from some parents like Jill Rosell, a mother of two, who resigned as president of the Scarsdale Council of Parent-Teacher Associations and later moved to nearby Chappaqua.
''There was never a compelling rationale for them to change it,'' Ms. Rosell said. ''I have not changed my mind, one iota, about the value of A.P. courses.''
Bruce G. Hammond, executive director of the Independent Curriculum Group, a network of private schools that do not teach to standardized tests, said that many private and public schools chafed under the limitations of Advanced Placement courses, and would drop them if not for opposition from parents.
''The College Board sees a challenge to their brand, and what they're trying to do is say we never intended these courses to be prescriptive,'' said Mr. Hammond, a former Advanced Placement history and macroeconomics teacher. ''That's window dressing and public relations. The truth is you still have to cover these topics, but they don't want to say that aloud anymore because they recognize they have a political problem.''
Richard Brodow, the superintendent in Millburn, N.J., said that he was considering adopting ''the Scarsdale model'' but that it would not be easy, noting that his high school was recently ranked best in the state by New Jersey Monthly magazine based partly on the number of Advanced Placement exams offered and the percentage of students scoring 3 and above. ''The reality is that it means a lot to people in the community,'' he said after observing Scarsdale's Advanced Topics classes last month.
John Love, principal of the high school division of Ethical Culture Fieldston, said that abolishing Advanced Placement courses in May 2001 had a ''liberating effect on the curriculum,'' leading to original courses like ''Inventing Gotham: New York City and the American Dream.'' The courses are known as ''Intensives'' or ''Advanced Topics''-- a name that Scarsdale later borrowed.
In Scarsdale, a wealthy town known for its excellent schools, the move away from Advanced Placement began in 2005, as teachers seeking to improve the senior-year experience concluded that they could offer college-level instruction that went beyond A.P. exams.
Before the change, about 800 juniors and seniors were enrolled in 18 Advanced Placement courses. This year, there are 531 students in 13 Advanced Topics courses, and 309 in the school's remaining 5 A.P.'s, which are to be phased out next fall, pending final approval from the school board.
As guidance counselors reached out to the top colleges to lay the groundwork for the change, they said they heard concerns from only three or four large universities that weigh Advanced Placement courses heavily in the admission process. Those schools now give the same weight to Advanced Topics courses, said Michael Gibbs, a Scarsdale counselor.
William R. Fitzsimmons, dean of admissions at Harvard, said that Harvard's admissions officers care little what a school calls its courses, but find that Advanced Placement test scores are a reliable predictor of college performance. Without them, he said, ''there's obviously one less piece of information there.''
This spring's Advanced Placement scores in Scarsdale have been evaluated by an independent statistician from New York University, who found no change over all in the patterns of performance, and two committees of teachers, administrators and parents have monitored the rollout and responded to concerns in the district. After what happened in United States history, teachers are now required to follow a common course outline.
In an Advanced Topics English class one recent morning, 25 seniors searched for their inner Shakespeare as they took turns acting out a scene from ''Hamlet.'' One boy glared menacingly as the ghost of Hamlet's murdered father, while another boy, as Hamlet, dropped to his knees in fear. Everyone clapped.
''The point of this is not the acting,'' Stephen Mounkhall, the teacher, told the class afterward. ''We're trying to get at the emotions and intentions of the character.''
In six years teaching A.P. English, Mr. Mounkhall, 39, said he always felt as if he was cheating his students when he strayed from the regimen of test preparation. ''The teaching can be more indirect now and, I think, richer and deeper,'' he said. ''Our responsibility is to prepare students as well as we can, but we're not going to the scores to see whether it's working.''
For Ethan Ross, 17, a senior, the change has meant that he could spend three days this fall dissecting the financial crisis in Advanced Topics macroeconomics and exploring the hippie culture with a research paper on ''The History of LSD in America'' this spring in A.T. United States history.
''That was, of course, not covered at all on the A.P. test,'' said Ethan, who scored a 5. ''It was just interesting to discuss a very specific part of our culture.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ethan MacKenzie, left, and Todd Rachowin playing a scene from ''Hamlet'' in the Advanced Topics English class taught by Stephen Mounkhall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A45)
 Carly Boxer, 17, in a class titled ''Western Political, Economic and Cultural Traditions.'' Scarsdale has already dropped most of its advanced placement classes.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A48) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CURRICULA (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (66%); VIETNAM WAR (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



218 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; THE TALK; Pg. 136

LENGTH: 2554 words

HEADLINE: Colony Club

BYLINE: By PHOEBE EATON

 BODY:
It was perhaps poor timing in August 2007 when Flavio Briatore, the playboy principal of Renault's Formula One racing team, announced he would build the Billionaire's Resort in sunny Malindi, his ex-girlfriend and presumptive business partner Naomi Campbell by his side. Kenya's coastline has never been called trendy, per se, even if Bill Gates and Angelina Jolie have recently played through several of its white-sand beaches. But Malindi's local M.P., Gideon Mung'aro, was somehow confident the hotel would ''attract queens and kings and other world celebrities,'' or so he told the press. 
 Then came the Christmas holidays, when the world watched rioters jig atop torched cars in the country's televised postelection violence that left 1,500 dead and a legacy of State Department warnings and some hotel cancellations. The current global banking crisis only ensures that the billionaires' Gulfstreams will remain grounded on the tarmac in months to come. 
 But billionaires are hardly a prerequisite for good times. After weeks in sweaty pursuit of big cats and giraffes, honeymooners are still repairing to Kenya's coast to sun, swim and fish, and scores of Italians reliably turn up year-round in the resort town of Malindi, known as Sardinia Due to those who can't quite afford Sardinia Uno. There are now 200 or so private villas here that could be rightly classified as splendido, furnished by numerous local home-decorating emporiums and guarded at night by Masai-warrior retainers, a coastal status symbol. The Italian embassy has gone so far as to install a resident consul in town. 
 Let the backpackers bleat that the town is being ''built up''; Malindi is no Miami Beach afflicted by condo creep, and its seafront still reads as seafront just as it did when Ernest Hemingway caught a big sailfish here in the '30s. A coral reef still defends Malindi's ramparts from those who travel by yacht; the reconstructed Vasco da Gama pillar is a chess piece on the water commemorating the deal struck in 1498 with the Portuguese to protect Malindi from Mombasan raiders down the shore. The ''Sonny'' signature graffitied onto the pillar's base records a later, more informal signing over of Malindi's soul to an Italian population now numbering approximately 3,000.
 It is therefore no surprise that one finds some of Kenya's better restaurants and shopping here. Teenagers play snooker behind the Crayola-colored produce stalls in the old market, where babies are carried in papoose slings fashioned from kangas, gaudy sarongs blazing with Swahili sayings. But tomatoes and red peppers can't sing arias without the Parma ham, arborio rice and Umbrian chardonnay sold at the Il Fornaio supermarket. A retiree opened a farm on the outskirts of town, adding pecorino, scamorza and mozzarella to the deli section. (Il Fornaio also has dedicated space for shaving gels and hair products.) 
 WITH AN OPEN PIPELINE to fine wine and luxe living, Malindi some years ago graduated to its current status as one of the planet's sunny places for shady people, beckoning narcotics traffickers and sex tourists like Batista's Havana. In 1990, Gianni Agnelli's drug-addled only son, Edoardo, was arrested here for possession, but generally speaking, vice in Malindi doesn't parade down the beach on stilts. It is only implied, merely alluded to by one's bar-stool neighbors. ''There are people here fleeing the sheriff, their wives, their lives,'' one settler admits. A lot of spaghetti gets thrown against the wall, about the retired Mafia hit man who opened a trattoria here; the genial businessman said to be married to Meyer Lansky's daughter; the restaurateur up on charges back home for pedophilia. 
 And though the mud flaps of a school bus passing through town evenly proclaim GOD IS GOD, coastal Kenya -- where millions are Muslim, and muezzin calls compete in the palmy breeze -- remains an equally hospitable haven to Al Qaeda: Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, who is accused of brainstorming the 1998 embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania and the surface-to-air missile attack that barely missed an Israel-bound airplane in 2002, was in town this August playing Where's Waldo with law enforcement, reportedly bleaching his skin to pass as an Arab. Police unsuccessfully swarmed through his Malindi hideout only to find a recently vacated kikoi (another Kenyan riff on the sarong), the TV on and food on the table. 
 None of this has discouraged Briatore, 58, a maestro marketer who long ago helped introduce the Benetton brand to the United States. (Few recall that Briatore high-tailed it from Italy in the late '70s to escape a prison sentence for fraud.) Some 14 years ago, he turned up here, soon purchasing a house he called Lion in the Sun, in the upscale Casuarina district. Last year, what had been Briatore's own vacation home opened for business as a combination hotel and thalassotherapy spa. 
 Do not call Lion in the Sun a fat farm, even if the resort may be pushing a fascist lifestyle at total odds with the character of its founder, a man of careening appetites. Before he married the 28-year-old Wonderbra model Elisabetta Gregoraci this year, after a cancer scare, he spent significant time knocking models off their feet like bowling pins. (Briatore most famously refuses to confirm paternity of a child borne by Heidi Klum, the ''Project Runway'' hostess.) Home is now London, where Briatore co-owns the Queens Park Rangers soccer team and the tabloids make sport of his blue-tinted rock-star spectacles and his ''distinctly flabby'' intercontinental beach presence. One can't help thinking of Hemingway's old man wrestling with his marlin, who, refusing to admit defeat, dreams only of the frolicking lion cubs he'd seen as a young man on the sun-parched beaches of Africa.
 ''Mr. Flavio is the richest man in Italy,'' says the teenager in charge of the pink terry sun loungers costing $9 a day at the Rosada beach club, a three-minute drive from Lion in the Sun. His name tag reads ''Piero'' (everyone wears one in Malindi), though his real Giriama-tribe name is Eban. Eban-Piero recalls a scene that plays like Fellini: the day Mr. Flavio walked down the beach, passing out 1,000 shilling notes to a squawking crowd of hundreds. 
 The Rosada's improbably sceney and chic ristorante could have been cast by Fellini's file cabinet, filled with hundreds of pictures of actors with antic faces and Coney Island bodies. The women of the Rosada don't bother with colorful kikoi wraps, as do the Anglo-Kenyans; most are blithely unaware of Italy's own colonial history in East Africa, which effectively ended with Mussolini swaying from a meat hook. They camp here all afternoon to smoke, play cards and eat fritto misto. Sotto voce, the locals call the more overbearing Italian men Rambos. The overcooked glamma-gals who impatiently clap their hands for service are malayas -- hookers in Swahili. This is not necessarily the crema di eleganza, but the Italianacci, ''the worst of the worst of the worst,'' says a visiting Italian journalist. 
 The Italians convene at the casino at night, where wealthy men sip espresso or eat spaghetti at roulette wheels operated by black-tie croupiers. There are beautiful women, and there are those women who are maintaining (and whose definition of maintaining is to make themselves up like Donatella Versace). A midget plays Indian Ocean stud poker as the men remember how the space race brought the Italians here after the Korean War and their space station, built on floating platforms, could always be towed away if the Kenyans got restless. 
 Farther down the main commercial strip that is Lamu Road, the Star Dust disco is holding a bodybuilding championship, overrun by the prostitutes in five-inch heels who are everywhere in Kenya but stand out less at the swanky Morgan's Bar at Fermento across the street, with its moody Miami lighting and club chairs with arms like elephant tusks. The $5 admission fee, payable on the way out, is all the incentive the girls need to leave accompanied, however badly. A sign on the bathroom wall admonishes: NO! TURISMO SESSUALE MINORILE. ''Tourists should refrain from having sex with minors'' (in so many words). 
 THIS IS NOT TO SAY that Malindi is entirely devoid of culture: the Picasso in residence is Armando Tanzini, an Italian-born sculptor who has exhibited at the Venice Biennale; his work is all over the Lion in the Sun, where he has a fan in Briatore. ''This is the only place where Mr. Briatore is able to really relax,'' insists Dr. Pierino Liana, Briatore's local point person. ''Unfortunately, now we have mobile phones. Just a few years ago, the mobile phone was not working here.'' 
 Inside the well-guarded gates of Lion in the Sun, smooth jazz moans from fake-rock speakers incorporated into several saltwater-swimming-pool areas -- as if some bar mitzvah is partying on in the distance. A personal trainer empurpled in Olivia Newton-John-era Lycra supervises a media executive chugging around the property who has lost 12 pounds in a week through a combination of grueling exercise and massage aided by glassy suction cups that could do equal justice to a well-chilled pinot grigio. Guests catch up on back issues of the Milan daily Corriere della Sera at the beauty salon. 
 Lion in the Sun is one of the few Malindi resorts across the street from -- and not explicitly on -- the ocean. The staff (rather implausibly) affirms this as a positive, a prophylactic against the paparazzi. (A boat ferries guests to a more private beach in Mayungu where Mr. Flavio has lately been snapping up property.) ''Normally, our people don't like to mix with other people,'' says the resort's operation manager, Sabina Vivaldi. 
 If Lion in the Sun is any indication, Mr. Flavio must learn what blisses out the billionaires: these rooms are the darkest of bungled bungalows. Mosquito netting has been worked into the windowpanes instead of the usual canopies over the bed; this is Africa for people who don't want to take their Malarone, only nobody told the mosquitoes, who enter just as easily via the front door. Those here for the bio-light diet are cordially ''not allowed'' to order room service, says the menu. It matters not that laundry is free if a room proves perversely unlivable, its pillows Poly-Fil, its bedspread rough on the skin, the showerhead too high an altitude. The custom metal door handles around the property are actually serrated. Responsibility for the design has fallen not to an experienced architect but to Dr. Liana, who cheerfully admits he originally came to Africa to investigate a suspected case of Ebola up country. Only he really always wanted to be a decorator.
 Spain's former prime minister Jose Maria Aznar and Bono en famille recently checked into Lion in the Sun, but it is hard to imagine Briatore here, and there are few personal effects in evidence; a Peter Beard photograph on the wall inscribed, ''To the great tax victim and partner in crime. . . .'' is an exception. Locals say Briatore had actually wanted to move to the Indian Ocean Lodge, a former resort nearby on the water, where, like Gatsby's mansion, it shows up well, a whitewashed wedding cake on a high coral shelf. But it is now rumored that he has put that property up for sale, and Vivaldi confirms that Briatore is considering building a ''presidential suite'' for himself on the grounds of Lion in the Sun.
 Better to check in for the time being at the nearby Kilili Baharini, with its bungalow verandas, stylish pili-pili daybeds on the beach and breakfast delivered under netted domes. Galana-stone swimming pools somehow look more proportionate here, as does the film-set spa and the gym equipment laid out on the beach under makuti thatching. 
 The British travel 45 minutes by car down the coast to Watamu for superior ''goggling'' (that's snorkeling, in American) and deep-sea fishing at Hemingways, where the high season runs from November to March after the seaweed drifts up to Malindi. Afternoon tea is served in the bar under the dead-eyed gaze of a 636-pound black marlin somebody caught a few years ago. Next door, the Ocean Sports hotel plays host to a 5 p.m. weighing of the day's catch. A boat owned by the Ocean Sports founder was swallowed up by the clubhouse years ago and repurposed as a bar. IAN PRICHARD CAME FROM MOMBASA IN THIS BOAT AND STAKED HIS CLAIM RIGHT HERE, reads the sign. So, too, did the windsurfing Princess Gloria von Thurn und Taxis, who spent her girlhood in Somalia and reports five times a year to Santa Angela, her Caribbean-style beach house in Watamu. 
 ''There is tranquility here,'' says Naomi Campbell, parachuting back into Malindi town after the riots. Campbell promised Kenya a modeling academy and a rehab center --as well as a school for children, but only if the town upgraded roads and the airport to better accommodate the anticipated billionaire jets. 
 But the plans are in the icebox at the moment as Briatore reconsiders opening this hotel-casino on the grounds that there may not be enough billionaires around for some time to sustain the place. It is not because the local turtle people went a bit nuts, Dr. Liana insists. Activists were maintaining that the increased foot traffic one might expect from such an addition would destroy the golf-ball-size eggs of critically endangered turtles nesting on an adjacent beach. (Briatore disputes this; to view one exception to the rule, a turtle who is thriving on the tourist trade, seek out the 330-pound teenage Galapagos tortoise at the local falconry, who puts away 30 bananas a day.) 
 ''We are not spoiling the last immaculate thing on the coast,'' Dr. Liana complains. The resort -- like the wonderful Fellini production that is Malindi -- remains in turnaround. Turtle hatchlings, much like affluent travelers, are guided by the reflection of the moon in the water. One hopes the moon will shine again on Malindi.
 Essentials Malindi, Kenya
 HOTELS Kilili Baharini Resort and Spa Casuarina Road; 011-254-42-20169; kililibaharini.com; doubles from about $222. Lion in the Sun Resort Marine Park Road; 011-254-42-30066; lioninthesun.net; doubles from $349. Hemingways Resort Watamu; 011-254-122-32624; www.hemingways.co.ke; doubles from $406.
 RESTAURANTS AND CLUBS Baby Marrow Best in town: ribollita and spaghetti with shrimp served in the pan. Silversands Road; 011-254-733-801238. Karen Blixen Cafe Negronis, espresso and pizza with your canasta on folding leather safari chairs. Galana Shopping Centre on Lamu Road. Morgan's Bar at Fermento Lamu Road; 011-254-42-31780. Ocean Sports Watamu; 011-254-42-32008. Old Man and the Sea Moorish arches and kikoi tablecloths. Started the smoked-sailfish craze. Sea Front Road; 011-254-42-31106. Tangeri Moroccan theme, Italian menu; hookahs and cappuccino-flavored shisha. Sea Front Road; 011-254-42-20414.
 SHOPPING AND ACTIVITIES Be Clever Madagascar pebble rings and recycled-material furniture. Galana Shopping Center; 011-254-722-931157. Casino Malindi Lamu Road; 011-254-42-330878. Falconry of Kenya Behind Il Fornaio supermarket on Lamu Road. Ken Haji Mawimbi Designs Dhow-wood furniture. Nyali; 011-254-41-473109. Lalla Spagnol Decor Home furnishings like canopies and upholstered ottomans. Lamu Road; 011-254-42-31018. PHOEBE EATON

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BEACH PARTY: Clockwise from above: the beach scene in Malindi, Kenya
Italian tourists play craps at Casino Malindi in town
one of the pools at Lions in the Sun Resort.(pg. M2 136)
FOREIGN AFFAIRS: Below: visitors take camel rides on the beach in nearby Watamu. Left: the Star Dust nightclub on Lamu Road, the main strip in Malindi.(pg. M2 138)
 LAP OF LUXURY: In the lobby of the Lion in the Sun, owned by the Italian businessman Flavio Briatore.(pg. M2 140)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH ELLIOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); BEACHES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); MAMMALS (71%); FISHES (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); RIOTS (69%); CHRISTMAS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); CATS (66%); PORK (60%); INTERIOR DECORATING (54%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (51%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); ANGELINA JOLIE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



219 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, December 7th 2008

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Nov. 22, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount and department stores; and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics; and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION		 	 	1	48	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Three Rivers, $14.95; Vintage, $7.99.) The president-elect asks Americans to move beyond political divisions.		 	 	2	123	DREAMS FROM MY FATHER, by Barack Obama. (Three Rivers, $14.95.) Obama on life as the son of a black African father and a white American mother.		 	 	3	37	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Harper, $13.95 and $7.99.) Lessons learned from a neurotic dog.		 	 	4	95	THREE CUPS OF TEA, by Greg Mortenson and David Oliver Relin. (Penguin, $15.) A former climber builds schools in villages in Pakistan and Afghanistan.		 	 	5	17	TEAM OF RIVALS, by Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $21.) The political genius of Abraham Lincoln.		 	 	6*	6	CHANGE WE CAN BELIEVE IN, by the editors of Time Magazine with a foreword by Barack Obama. (Three Rivers, $13.95.) Speeches and policy proposals from Obama&#8217;s presidential campaign.		 	 	7	216	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	8	96	EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. (Penguin, $15.) A writer&#8217;s yearlong journey in search of self.		 	 	9*	60	I HOPE THEY SERVE BEER IN HELL, by Tucker Max. (Citadel/Kensington, $12.95.) Life as a self-/absorbed, drunken womanizer.		 	 	10	58	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) The importance of instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	11	7	THE FORGOTTEN MAN, by Amity Shlaes. (Harper Perennial, $15.95.) A reinterpretation of the New Deal and the Great Depression.		 	 	12	109	90 MINUTES IN HEAVEN, by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. (Revell, $12.99.) A minister on the otherworldly experience he had after an accident.		 	 	13*	15	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $12.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his ordeal.		 	 	14	62	THE OMNIVORE&#8217;S DILEMMA, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin, $16.) Tracking food from soil to plate.		 	 	15	2	OBAMA&#8217;S CHALLENGE, by Robert Kuttner. (Chelsea Green, $14.95.) How the next president should handle the current economic crisis.		 	 	16*	6	SAME KIND OF DIFFERENT AS ME, by Ron Hall and Denver Moore with Lynn Vincent. (Nelson, $14.99.) The unlikely friendship between a homeless drifter and a successful art dealer who meet at a shelter in Texas.		 	 	17	11	THE ZOOKEEPER&#8217;S WIFE, by Diane Ackerman. (Norton, $14.95.) How a Warsaw couple sheltered Jews and members of the Resistance during World War II.		 	 	18	10	THE NINE, by Jeffrey Toobin. (Anchor, $15.95.) Inside the secret world of the Supreme Court.		 	 	19	29	ANIMAL, VEGETABLE, MIRACLE, by Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. (Harper Perennial, $14.95.) The novelist and her family spend a year eating homegrown or local food.		 	 	20	8	MUSICOPHILIA, by Oliver Sacks. (Vintage, $14.95.) Examining the interaction between music and the brain.		 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); WRITERS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (67%); CHILDREN (64%); BEER & ALE (61%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



220 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Competition Rises for Trails Grants

BYLINE: By CAREN CHESLER

 BODY:
MIKE and Anne Kruimer were cycling along a well-traveled road in Woodbridge in 1992 when a car cut in front of Mrs. Kruimer and sent her flying. She broke her back, paralyzing her from the waist down, but it never stopped the couple from cycling. The Kruimers, now 54, continue to ride to places as far as Washington and Florida, though they now ride a tandem, and Mrs. Kruimer uses her hands rather than her feet to propel the wheels forward.
 ''She's not getting a free ride,'' Mr. Kruimer said. 
 What the accident did do, however, was to compel the Kruimers to join the East Coast Greenway Alliance, which is building a 3,000-mile bike-and-hiking trail from Calais, Me., to Key West, Fla., similar to the Appalachian Trail. 
 But where the Appalachian Trail takes cyclists and hikers away from congested areas, the East Coast Greenway winds its way through major cities along the East Coast. The group's goal is to construct a trail entirely ''off road.'' For long stretches, they have reached that goal. 
 There are places on the route where cyclists and hikers are sent into the street -- one of the most treacherous being in New Jersey. That spot, where the trail connects Jersey City and Newark, runs along Routes 1 and 9. In some places, there are sidewalks. In others, cyclists must ride on the shoulder of the road alongside car and truck traffic.
 ''It's not for the faint of heart,'' Mr. Kruimer said.
 If money were no object, Mr. Kruimer said he would build a pedestrian bridge on that stretch, where the trail crosses the Hackensack River. But money is an object, particularly in today's economy. While the federal government just gave the Greenway alliance a $25,000 grant, part of a $1 million grant package it doles out every year to New Jersey trail groups, it's a far cry from the $10 million the alliance would need to construct a bridge. Instead, the group will use the money to install mile markers and informational kiosks along the route.
 That is not to say trail groups aren't grateful for the money. This year, 44 trail projects in New Jersey received a total of $746,739 in financing from the Federal Highway Administration's Recreational Trails Program -- grants for which they must contribute a 20 percent match. Another $300,000 was set aside for trails for off-road vehicles, like all-terrain vehicles and dirt bikes.
 ''It's a significant amount of money that these groups can apply for,'' said Dana Loschiavo, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Environmental Protection, which helps administer the program. 
 Edward Goodell, executive director of the New York-New Jersey Trail Conference, said, ''It's one of the bright spots among open space funding at the moment, given the economic situation the way it is.'' 
 His organization received $25,000 to extend the trail around Echo Lake. The lake is in the Pequannock Watershed, which provides water for the City of Newark. The group wanted to improve the trail so city schoolchildren could be taken there to learn the source of their water.
 But the trails grant program has become very competitive, as more and more municipalities jump on board to improve their trails, and vie for an ever-shrinking pot of open space money. And the state isn't likely to step in, not when officials are in cost-cutting mode and recently considered closing some state parks altogether.
 James Mallman, whose group, Watchable Wildlife, received $13,007 to help develop a series of interconnected water trails through Egg Island Wildlife Management Area and the Glades Wildlife Refuge, said New Jersey has some of the best bird-watching in the country; but it is getting tougher to finance projects to enhance that viewing experience.
 ''International conflicts, major hurricanes and natural disasters, and now fires,'' Mr. Mallman said. ''There's always an issue that seems to take center stage.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RECREATION: Federal funds were granted to extend the trail around Echo Lake, which is in the Pequannock Watershed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIKING (90%); CYCLING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (85%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (69%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



221 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Getting Unfiltered Rate Quotes

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MORTGAGE shoppers may often feel at a distinct bargaining disadvantage because they are not privy to the same information about interest rates as loan officers and brokers.
 A new service, on TrueCredit.com, aims to help tilt the balance in favor of borrowers -- and perhaps save them from an unnecessary round of inquiries to mortgage brokers in the first place.
 The service, called the Mortgage Simulator, takes advantage of data from TrueCredit's parent company, TransUnion, one of the major credit bureaus, to deliver estimates of interest rates a borrower might qualify for. 
 Other online mortgage estimators cannot go this far, mostly because the typical consumer does not know his or her credit score, which is a critical factor in determining the mortgage rate.
 TrueCredit's simulator, which costs $10 to use for a month, can return valuable loan information quickly. Users type in their preferred loan size and down payment, Social Security number, the address of the property and their monthly debts and annual income. The service retrieves the consumer's credit score and, a moment later, displays rates for a range of mortgage products.
 Along with the results, borrowers are offered a ''what if'' tool, which enables them to play with different variables -- for instance, the down payment amount or the credit score -- to see how such adjustments might change the interest rate.
 During a recent trial, for instance, this tool suggested a user would qualify for a 6.49 percent rate on a 30-year fixed-rate loan for $210,000. Changing the loan amount to $260,000 increased the interest rate to 6.52 percent, and the monthly payment by $334.
 These are not actual loan offers, but rather estimates based on what banks nationwide are charging similar borrowers. That data, which is produced by the Heitman Group, a mortgage consulting business in Eugene, Ore., does not yet take into account regional differences, so borrowers in different states may pay more or less than the rate quoted on TrueCredit.com.
 Because that data is a national average, TrueCredit.com does not specify the lowest rates available on the market. Given that lenders can sometimes offer rates a percentage point or more below the national average on a particular day, users of the Mortgage Simulator should be prepared to seek even lower rates if they go ahead with their mortgage plans.
 Steven Katz, the director of consumer education for TrueCredit.com, maintained that the Web site's information is still highly useful. 
 ''You can print this out, call your lender and say that you should be able to get 6.5 percent on a mortgage, and ask them if they can beat that,'' he said. ''So you're coming into the negotiation from a position of power.''
 Of equal importance, borrowers can postpone their mortgage shopping if the Mortgage Simulator suggests they cannot qualify for a reasonably priced loan.
 That has advantages beyond saving time, because loan officers must obtain a borrower's credit score for each application, and that action alone can sometimes drop a borrower's score by five points. Because borrowers obtain their scores on TrueCredit.com directly from the credit bureau, they suffer no similar credit score damage.
 Brad Strothkamp, an analyst with Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, Mass., called the mortgage simulator a useful service. 
 ''What I like most about it is its independent, unbiased nature,'' he said. 
 Other online services may offer mortgage rates, Mr. Strothkamp added, but they also accept advertisements from lenders, thereby making that information appear less trustworthy.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates) Chart details line graphs for rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (79%); LOAN BROKERS (79%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (53%) OREGON, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



222 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Editor's Choice: Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
A MERCY, by Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $23.95.) In this novel of the 17th century, Morrison performs her deepest excavation yet into America's history and exhumes our twin original sins: the enslavement of Africans and the near extermination of Native Americans. 
 OUTLIERS: The Story of Success, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Writing with a political bent, Gladwell argues that success is more a function of opportunity than we generally care to believe. 
 LESSONS IN DISASTER: McGeorge Bundy and the Path to War in Vietnam, by Gordon M. Goldstein. (Times Books/Holt, $25.) How a key architect of the war began an agonized search to understand himself. 
 THE GREAT INFLATION AND ITS AFTERMATH: The Past and Future of American Affluence, by Robert J. Samuelson. (Random House, $26.) The villains of this morality tale are the advocates of the ''new economics'' that took hold under Kennedy. 
 THE WORDY SHIPMATES, by Sarah Vowell. (Riverhead, $25.95.) Vowell's pop history of the New England Puritans' attempt to build an exemplary ''city upon a hill'' hums along with genial talk-show banter. 
 HORSES AT WORK: Harnessing Power in Industrial America, by Ann Norton Greene. (Harvard University, $29.95.) A colorfully detailed analysis of why horses, paradoxically, thrived in the age of industrialization. 
 LEGEND OF A SUICIDE, by David Vann. (University of Massachusetts, $24.95.) In his first story collection, Vann leads the reader to vital places while exorcizing demons born from the suicide of his father. 
 SEA OF POPPIES, by Amitav Ghosh. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Ghosh's novel reimagines the lives of Indian peasants on the eve of the Opium Wars. 
 LUCKY BILLY, by John Vernon. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A fictionalized account of the short life and squalid death of Henry McCarty, a k a Billy the Kid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); OPIUM (63%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



223 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; WILDLIFE EDGEWATER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Defending the Parrots of Edgewater

BYLINE: By DAVID HOLMBERG

DATELINE: EDGEWATER 

 BODY:
 ON a rainy afternoon recently in this river town, many of its noisiest -- and possibly best-loved -- residents were snug in their nests in the trees across from the Salsa, a restaurant on River Road.
 The parrots of Edgewater were safe and dry. The small lime-green birds, which are actually monk parakeets, also known as Quaker parrots, seemed unperturbed by a falcon perched high in a tree -- the predatory bird could be seen from the restaurant's front window. Earlier, near the restaurant, four of the parrots formed a squadron and, with their signature screech, flew in a visitor's direction and were gone in an instant. 
 ''We all love them,'' said Susann Fletcher, a co-owner of the Salsa and a former Broadway actress. ''They give the community its flavor.''
 The Quaker parrots have lived in Edgewater for more than 30 years. How they came to be an ornithological fixture here is a matter of speculation. The most accepted explanation is that they escaped from a shipping crate at Kennedy International Airport in the late 1960s and flew first to Brooklyn before settling in Edgewater; there are some parrots in Brooklyn, too.
 Now, legislation is pending in the New Jersey Senate to remove them from the state's list of potentially dangerous species. Black bears are also on that list. Advocates say the birds made the list because officials were afraid they would jeopardize indigenous species (the parrots are South American in origin) and perhaps damage crops.
 Ms. Fletcher, an Edgewater resident for 15 years, and Michelle Schotanus, the restaurant's other owner, monitor and protect the birds, rescuing two or three injured ones a year. Ms. Fletcher said they also defend them from occasional detractors who say they're too noisy and a nuisance. 
 ''I asked a customer recently if he wanted anything else,'' she said, ''and he said, 'Yeah, a green bird on a stick.' I said: 'Don't you dis our parrots! They're gorgeous birds.' ''
 She acknowledged that the birds -- which also congregate in a nearby park and can be seen elsewhere in Edgewater and even in nearby Leonia -- are especially animated in the morning. They travel in formation and build huge nests in the nearby trees. One nest visible from the restaurant is approximately four feet long and a foot wide. Ms. Fletcher said they also gather at dusk and have noisy bird conversations. ''They have a lot to say to each other at the end of the day,'' she said.
 State Assemblywoman Joan Voss, a Democrat from Fort Lee, who has been working on legislation to protect the birds since 2005, estimated there are some 200 to 230 parrots in Edgewater, up from about 190 in the past three years.
 Before 2005, the Public Service Electric and Gas Company periodically cracked down on the birds, imperiling them by tearing down their nests from utility poles during the breeding season. PSE&G maintained that the nests were a potential fire hazard. But since then, the utility and the parrot advocates have reached a truce, and PSE&G has agreed not to knock down nests during the breeding season.
 Still, Alison Evans-Fragale, an advocate for the birds who negotiated with PSE&G and has conducted tours of the parrot sites, said legislation remained crucial for the parrots to continue to flourish and survive. Referring to the birds' designation as a potentially dangerous species, she said on her Web site, in a message aimed at state legislators: ''As long as they remain on the list, humane treatment of the birds is not insured, and the birds can be indiscriminately killed. It's within your power to prevent this awful practice.''
 The legislation to remove the parrots from the list passed in the Assembly in May 2007, but is stalled in the Senate, Assemblywoman Voss said. She added that she feared it would remain stalled through the end of the session in June because, in the current economic downturn, lawmakers have other priorities. ''With all the stuff happening in the state now,'' she said, ''parrots are not a priority.'' She said the legislation would have to be reintroduced if it did not pass this session.
 In his pizza shop across from the River Road park where the parrots congregate, George Prifti, 37, also keeps a careful eye on the parrots, a daily presence in the trees. He pointed out six nests in two trees.
 ''People love the parrots,'' Mr. Prifti said. ''I love them.'' He said that on weekends, especially, his customers like to watch the birds from the restaurant, and some take pictures of them. ''It's something positive,'' he said. ''The birds are good for business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE LINE: Quaker parrots, which are actually monk parakeets, congregating at a bird feeder in Edgewater, where some 230 of them make their home.
FOR THE BIRDS: Alison Evans-Fragale is a protector of the parrots.
 POWER: PSE&G says it will not remove nests in breeding season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ORNITHOLOGY (72%); MAMMALS (70%); NUISANCE (70%); AIRPORTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



224 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: About Those Charges of Bailout Bias

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- Word that Congressional Democrats were prepared to hammer out a government rescue plan for the beleaguered American auto industry came late Friday, not quite 12 hours after the Labor Department reported staggering new job losses. 
 But even before the unsettling news that another 533,000 Americans had fallen out of work, there was an angry undercurrent to the debate in Congress: the notion that Washington was much more motivated to bail out Wall Street financial firms than blue-collar manufacturers. 
 ''In the district, people feel that this is clearly Congress caring more about people who wear Guccis than people who wear Levi's,'' said Representative Thaddeus McCotter, Republican of Michigan, one of the most conservative members of the House, whose constituents live just west of Detroit. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, made a similar point at a hearing with the auto executives Friday but slung the arrow at the Bush administration. ''I do think there is, at the decision-making level, a blue-collar, white-collar bias,'' he said. 
 For all the heated language, though, lawmakers and administration officials close to the decision making say class warfare was a negligible factor, compared with other critical differences, in how the two bailout cases have played out. 
 The culture clash over helping the auto companies was less Main Street vs. Wall Street than it was the usual battles in Washington: White House vs. Congress, House vs. Senate, Democrat vs. Republican. Politics, timing and the broader economic circumstances also factored into the debates on Capitol Hill. 
 While some have suggested that the American public was less sympathetic to the auto industry because more people than ever prefer to drive Toyotas and Hondas, lawmakers say that they actually heard much louder opposition from their constituents to the Wall Street bailout than to the rescue plan for the auto industry. 
 By Friday afternoon, Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky, had received roughly 700 calls about the automakers' pleas for help, running 60-40 in favor of a taxpayer rescue, a spokesman, Stuart Perelmuter, said. In September, Mr. Yarmuth received thousands of calls about the $700 billion bailout, at first with 20 to one opposed, and then four to one against, after the House initially voted the plan down and stock markets plummeted. 
 But the biggest difference, officials say, was that the case for the $700 billion was made to Congress directly by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, two public officials, who testified that urgent Congressional action was needed to prevent a global economy cataclysm. And Congress did not have to pick and choose among the financial firms to help. 
 ''We authorized the program but the specific beneficiaries, the specific details were worked out by Treasury,'' said Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, adding that Chrysler, General Motors and Ford have had to make their own case for aid. 
 ''They are making the presentation themselves, not a public official who says we need a program to help these people, and in that sense it's harder for them to get traction.'' 
 Mr. Reed, who favors a government rescue plan, said that if the individual financial firms had been forced to plead their case in the same way, Congress would have debated the merits of each request, just as the Treasury had to make separate decisions about Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, American International Group and Citigroup. 
 And just as lawmakers questioned why the American automakers seemed to be so much worse off than their foreign-based counterparts, Mr. Reed said Congress would have raised similar questions about the financial firms. 
 ''They would have run into the same types of perceptions,'' Mr. Reed said. ''Why this company? What about the other companies in this industry?'' 
 The automakers also faced a much steeper climb because of their unfortunate timing, coming to Washington tin cup in hand during a post-election, lame duck session, and at a time when there is severe bailout fatigue on Capitol Hill. 
 Unlike the financial system bailout, which was debated six weeks before a major election, with the entire membership of the House facing the voters' judgment, there was not a similar level of political urgency, despite the projections by some experts that General Motors could collapse before year's end. 
 The awful November jobs report helped provide some of that urgency. 
 In recent days, outrage among many Democrats over the Bush administration's handling of the bigger bailout, fueled by a sharply critical report by the Government Accountability Office, only added to the reluctance to put taxpayer money on the line. 
 Whether that reluctance can be overcome will be known when Congressional Democrats put the rescue package up for votes later this week. 
 The White House flatly dismissed suggestions that it favored white-collar financial firms over the blue-collar automakers and accused Ms. Pelosi and Democrats of playing politics. The administration said it was working with Congress toward a deal. 
 ''The financial rescue isn't about white collar vs. blue collar or Wall Street vs. Main Street,'' said Tony Fratto, the deputy press secretary. ''And it's not about knee-jerk Democratic class warfare. It's about preventing the collapse of our entire economy.'' 
 Mr. Fratto noted that thousands of financial firm employees had lost their jobs in recent months, and that the federal government's intervention in the case of Bear Stearns led to the dissolution of the storied investment bank -- not exactly a cheery ending.
 At times there were also charges of regional bias, and some defenders of the auto industry suggested that there was an anti-union animus among lawmakers from areas where organized labor has only a small presence. 
 Still, some lawmakers said they could only conclude that the automakers were forced to travel an unduly rough road, and that the financial firms got a free pass. 
 At a banking committee hearing on Thursday, Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, gestured angrily at a chart showing the billions that have been received by the financial firms. ''You guys have been put under far more scrutiny, far more scrutiny than the people up here on the board, for far less money,'' he told the auto executives. ''I would love to have those birds in here again because they need to be talked to.'' 
 Mr. Frank noted on Friday that the United Auto Workers had agreed to cuts in base pay while the financial bailout legislation required only the end of bonuses and golden-parachutes for high-flying financial executives. 
 ''I am sure the autoworkers would be willing to give up their bonuses,'' Mr. Frank scoffed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TWO PLEAS: Rick Wagoner, top, chairman of General Motors, awaited a Senate hearing on Thursday. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. testified before the House Financial Services Committee on Nov. 18. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%)

PERSON: THADDEUS G MCCOTTER (58%); JOHN A YARMUTH (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); JACK REED (58%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); BEN BERNANKE (55%); RICK WAGONER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



225 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; THE REMIX; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Southern Exposure

BYLINE: By MAURA EGAN

 BODY:
Contemporary Arts Center 
 900 Camp Street 
 There's recent Katrina-inspired work from big names like Lee Bul and Julie Mehretu here, but the New Orleans-based artist Skylar Fein's installation reminds viewers of another sad moment in the city's history. Fein recreated the Upstairs Lounge, a gay bar in the French Quarter that suspiciously burned to the ground in 1973, killing 32 people. Prominent local clergy members refused to hold memorial services for the victims. 
 Studio at Colton School 
 2300 St. Claude Avenue
 An explosive light display by Cai Guo-Qiang takes the stage in the auditorium, while next door the Creative Alliance of New Orleans presents the Court 13 artists Eliza Zeitlin and Jimmy Lee Moore, who showcase a jalopy-style boat from their film ''Saints of Atlantis,'' which was honored at Sundance last year. 
 Lower Ninth Ward
 Various locations
 Working in his usual Tyvek canvas and industrial paint, the New York-based artist Adam Cvijanovic created a swampy landscape in several rooms of an abandoned house. ''I wanted to bring the outside in, in a very different circumstance than the last time it happened,'' the artist explains. Nearby, Mark Bradford's hulking, arklike ''Mithra,'' made from discarded scraps of plywood, rises from a sandy lot where a funeral home once stood.
 KK Projects
 North Viellere Street
 Beyond the biennial, ''Operation Paydirt,'' by the artist Mel Chin, repurposed one of the old Creole cottages in the Eighth Ward as a bank vault. Having discovered that the lead levels in the city soil were dangerously high, Chin is using the space to exhibit some of the three million ''fundred''-dollar bills, which he'll deliver to Washington legislators in exchange for real dollars to help clean up the environment.
 Louisiana State 
 Museum-U.S. Mint 
 400 Esplanade Avenue
 Srdjan Loncar looks to a bigger calamity -- the current economic collapse -- for his piece ''Value,'' a series of gold-painted Winchester pistol cases filled with fake money for sale. Upstairs, Sanford Biggers hits a somber note with a life-size tree and a piano that plays Billie Holiday's lament ''Strange Fruit.'' MAURA EGAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP, CLOCKWISE FROM FAR LEFT: MIKE SMITH/JONATHAN FERRARA GALLERY
JOHN D'ADDARIO
ADAM CVIJANOVIC
AMANDA WILES
 JOHN D'ADDARIO. BOTTOM: FROM FADE BY OLIVIER BOBIN.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); COINS & COINAGE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); LEAD (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (56%); RELIGION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



226 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; THE TALK; Pg. 154

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Original Sim

BYLINE: By SAM LUBELL

 BODY:
I'm sitting in front of a long glass desk in the office of the architect Scope Cleaver. It's quite a place, with undulating concrete walls, sharply angled yellow-tinted windows and long, cantilevered balconies. And then there is Cleaver himself. He has dark shoulder-length hair, he's about 3 years old, and he can fly. Welcome to the surreal world of architecture in Second Life.
 Unchecked by the usual limitations, designers in Second Life are creating unbelievable structures and entire worlds -- either for the money or simply because they can. From sci-fi cityscapes to towers made of French toast, there are endless chances to experiment here. There is also plenty of demand for conventional buildings like houses and schools. Either way, if architects don't have to contend with the real-life constraints of budgets, permits, engineering or even gravity, is it right to judge their work as architecture? Most designers don't seem to care. They contend that Second Life will do nothing less than transform architecture as we know it. And anyway, such debates quickly fade to the background once you get here. You're too busy flying around. 
 Second Life, for those Luddites out there, is a virtual Internet world started in 2003 by Linden Lab in San Francisco. It has more than 15 million residents (about a million of them stop by each month) who inhabit its universe through avatars. These avatars socialize, take classes, admire art and music, engage in illicit behavior, play games, and make, buy and sell all manner of items, including buildings. 
 Virtual architects -- from amateurs to well-paid professionals -- use Second Life's internal software to build structures out of basic geometrical blocks called ''prims'' (short for primitive objects) that can be shaped, stretched, textured, colored and so on. Most raw materials are free, so the biggest cost for a designer, besides his or her time, is land, which is bought, sold and leased with real money (exchanged for local currency, Linden Dollars). Despite plenty of bad architecture here -- McMansions, strip malls, faceless corporate towers, all the worst designs of the real world, with plenty of fantasy kitsch thrown in -- the virtual world is home to designs that can take your breath away. Walk or, better yet, fly through Central Station, a dense city made up of irregularly stacked cube-shaped buildings linked via monorail. Or visit beautiful contemporary houses with waterfront views, arabesque fortresses, medieval castles, Japanese villages and stunning re-creations of real-life architectural masterpieces like the Palace of Versailles or Mies van der Rohe's Farnsworth House. 
 The most exceptional and certainly the most mind-blowing designs are those that could never be built under earthbound conditions. No matter, says the British designer Lester Clark, who through Second Life is able, he says, to ''rediscover what it feels like to create something original.'' Clark is the head of graphics for the British architecture firm PRP. In Second Life he is Designer Dingson, creating fanciful structures on Architecture Island, where he also maintains Farnsworth House. Here he believes architecture is creative in the purest sense: ''There are no planners, no building regulations, no thermal loss calculations, no value engineering by developers.''
 In other words, the only limit is the imagination. Many of the buildings in Second Life are difficult to wrap your head around. They often represent a collision of architectural styles, time periods, interfaces (some buildings are formed out of Web pages), materials, objects (both living and nonliving), altitudes and even weather systems. 
 Scope Cleaver, who declines to reveal any information about his real-world life (including his real name), earns up to $75 an hour designing offices, stores, homes and conference centers. He's even built a virtual embassy for the Republic of Estonia. But when he takes me -- actually my avatar, Sam Constellation -- on a tour of his work, it is his more over-the-top creations that stand out. Diversity, a building for Princeton University -- a prominent Second Life client, with its own virtual campus -- looks like a cross between a ram's horn, a car tire and a colorful Wurlitzer jukebox. The interiors are outfitted with pool tables and comfy sofas. His Alexander Beach Hall, also for Princeton, features an auditorium that can seat hundreds and resembles a huge wind tunnel or maybe an exotic flower. His Princeton Gallery of the Arts is a fan-shaped glass and steel structure that recalls a deck of cards being tossed from one hand to the other. 
 According to D B Bailey (an architect from Marina del Rey, Calif., named David Denton), the move away from ''normal'' building in Second Life was surprisingly difficult at first. ''You learn how conventional your thinking is,'' he says. ''We don't let go of the real world easily.'' This explains why houses here often have kitchens when people don't eat, and buildings often have roofs when there is usually no weather. Bailey's Blinker Hall is an art center where sculptures turn into building blocks, floors deform to look like art, and some exhibition rooms lack walls or ceilings, immersing visitors in colorful chaos. The building is composed of both solids and voids that could never stand in real life, and above it hovers a cloud he built called Purgatorio, a dreamy collision of surreal colors, textures, surfaces and objects. Sites documenting the most adventurous work in Second Life are a great way to explore its more than 25,000 ''sims,'' or regions, which range from the futuristic, like Insilico, a sci-fi city made up of ''Blade Runner''-like towers, flashing billboards and metallic pods; to the bizarre, like Greenies Home Rezzable, where visitors become mouse-size figures inside a giant home. Dingson's stomping ground, Architecture Island -- founded by the virtual designer Keystone Bouchard (in real life Jon Brouchoud, an architect from Wisconsin) -- is an entire sim reserved for designers dedicated to pushing the limits of virtual design. Popular Web sites include Not Possible in Real Life (npirl.blogspot.com); the arch (archsl.wordpress.com), which is run by Brouchoud; and the Flickr page of the Second Life photographer who goes by the name Lem Skall (flickr.com/photos/lem--skall). Once you click an image, you can teleport there through a program called SLurl. 
 One caveat to explorers: things can get weird quickly. I was told that inhabitants of Kingdom of Sand, a medieval Arabic sim used for role-playing, engage in mortal combat and submissive sex. A re-creation of the Lighthouse of Pharos, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, recently sat above a large rotating ad for a Second Life strip club called Club XTC Elite.
 But with the economy in the real world sputtering, less practical Second Life designs have already been shuttered, their owners unable or unwilling to keep paying the rent. ''If you want to play art farm, you can play that,'' said Prokofy Neva (in real life Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, a Russian translator based in New York City), who leases out hundreds of homes in Second Life. ''To me it's more interesting to see what you can do if you try to make the buildings usable, where people actually inhabit them.'' Terry Beaubois, an architect and teacher at Montana State University, is hesitant even to call these actual buildings. ''There is something called architecture,'' he says, ''and it's in the real world.''
 Still, many architects have begun to embrace Second Life as a support tool for their real designs. For them it is a place where they can visualize, prototype and test future structures, give clients a better view of or even choose what they're getting, and conduct remote collaborations with other architects. Even skeptics like Beaubois, who is the director of Montana State's Creative Research Lab, use it in their architecture and urban planning classes. 
 Brouchoud predicts that virtual designs will come to inspire real-world architecture and that designers like Cleaver, who are already celebrities in Second Life, will soon become household names. His Studio Wikitecture group, an open-source architecture platform, has already garnered real-life acclaim. (This year it won the Open Architecture Challenge's Founders Award, which encourages architects to design low-cost spaces for the needy.) 
 Meanwhile, Linden Lab HQ, designed by Keystone Bouchard, is the closest thing to a Second Life landmark, an ever-expanding set of floating discs containing wildly varied meeting and work spaces uniting the company's 300-some employees and five locations. The Boston operations director, John Lester (a k a Pathfinder Linden), loves that he can hold a meeting while hovering over a mountaintop. He compares the acceptance of Second Life design with that of other emerging media. ''People used to say Web designers weren't real designers,'' he says. ''And before that, people said there was no such thing as serious cinema.''
 Denton even wonders if the virtual realm will largely replace the building trades as construction and material prices continue to rise and travel remains a drag on the planet. No one knows exactly where it will go, but it's exciting to imagine, as thousands of Second Life-related blog posts attest. ''It will be nice to be here while it evolves,'' says Clark, now Dingson, sitting in a virtual chair overlooking the endless virtual sea. SAM LUBELL

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SECOND LOOKS: Architectural wounders of the virtual world, clockwise from above: Scope Cleaver's Diversity Building for Princeton
the office of designer Dingson
Keystone Bouchard's Gallery of Reflexive Architecture. (PHOTOGRAPHY BY FROM LEFT: JON BROUCHOUD (KEYSTONE BOUCHARD), CRESCENDO DESIGN
 FROM LEM SKALL (2). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); VIRTUAL REALITY (87%); ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); RETAILERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



227 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Dreaming of Infrastructure As Federal Aid Beckons

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
WIND turbines on the ocean to generate electricity. Sewers for Wyandanch and Rocky Point. The Long Island Rail Road's tunnel to Grand Central Terminal. Upgraded Long Island Expressway interchanges. Inventing and manufacturing clean-energy equipment. 
 Those are a few of the projects on the wish list that Long Island leaders are drafting as they seek a portion of the local share of billions of dollars in federal stimulus aid, aimed at modernizing infrastructure while simultaneously reviving the stricken economy, that is expected to soon flow from Washington.
 ''We'll be happy to take some of it, and we should shoot for as much as we can,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's leading business group.
 Congressional leaders have spoken of a stimulus package of $500 billion or more after President-elect Barack Obama is inaugurated. Much of the package should be spent on public infrastructure projects, many economists say. 
 Deserving projects abound locally, said Michael E. White, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Council. ''We need things like sewers, water, work-force housing and downtown revitalization that would not only provide a public benefit,'' he said, ''but would also allow workers to hang onto jobs and generate exponential ripple effects, including retail sales and tax revenues.''
 Projects financed by any stimulus aid are likely to come in two distinctly differently waves, said Representative Timothy H. Bishop, the East End Democrat who plays a central role as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
 The immediate focus will be smaller projects that can start quickly. Later will come grander efforts -- Mr. Bishop calls them ''game-changers'' -- like the Long Island Rail Road's proposed third track between Floral Park and Hicksville.
 ''We're going to get two bites at the apple,'' he said. ''What we want initially is projects that can be operational within 60 to 90 days, that are ready to go and the only thing that's holding them back is money.''
 Such fast-track projects will feature small-bore, mundane-sounding needs like highway improvements and sewer extensions.
 Those projects produce broader benefits, said Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive. ''We can use that infrastructure money to expand our roads to deal with traffic gridlock and to build more sewer capacity,'' he said, ''which would be good for the environment and help the economy with an infusion of cash to put people back to work.''
 Specifically, Mr. Levy is pushing for a replacement of the Long Island Expressway overpass at Motor Parkway in Hauppauge, highway improvements on Route 58 in the Riverhead area and Route 80 in the Mastic-Shirley area, sewers in Smithtown and Rocky Point and a new sewage outfall pipe at Bergen Point.
 Beyond such immediate needs, officials are also dusting off visionary projects.
 ''We shouldn't lose sight of the big prizes,'' Mr. White of the planning council said. He and others cited the railroad's planned third track to ease rush-hour trains and enable more reverse commuting to supply workers to the Island, and also completing the East Side Access tunnel to Grand Central. 
 While firmly committed to those efforts, the railroad's president, Helena E. Williams, said that the list of ''items that could move quickly, where you could hit the ground running,'' includes better traffic controls at the hub in Jamaica, Queens; pedestrian railings at stations; new concrete rail ties; and expanding the rehabilitation of the Atlantic Avenue viaduct in Brooklyn.
 Because federal officials have not yet set their criteria, local governments should prepare a menu, said Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive. ''You can ask for what you want, but we have to see what projects they're looking for most,'' he said. ''We're going to give them what they want.''
 ''During the New Deal, Robert Moses got the most money because he always had projects ready to go,'' Mr. Suozzi said. ''I can guarantee we'll be on line with projects ready, from sewers and road paving to more dramatic long-term projects.'' He specified the Nassau County hub and an extension of the Bay Park sewage plant outfall pipe, which would cost up to $300 million to bring it to the ocean.
 Energy is a major theme for the incoming Obama administration, as it is for Long Island.
 ''We want to make sure we get our fair share,'' said Kevin S. Law, president of the Long Island Power Authority. ''We want to make New York a green corridor.'' 
 Federal aid could help the authority's investment in solar power and its exploration, with Con Edison, of ocean-based wind turbines. The agency also faces billions of dollars in costs to modernize existing power plants.
 Hoping to create industry here, Representative Steve Israel and others want federal grants to help academic and scientific institutions and private companies to devise new energy technology. Brookhaven National Laboratory, Stony Brook University and Farmingdale State College are among those mentioned as possible recipients.
 ''There is no reason why Long Island can't be a manufacturing capital for green technology,'' Mr. Law said.
 School construction may also receive federal funds. ''What we are seeing now is concern that state funding for school projects will dry up'' because of the state's fiscal crisis, said Lorraine M. Deller, executive director of the Nassau-Suffolk School Boards Association.
 In Long Beach, for example, the school board has drafted a $99 million program to renovate its buildings. The district superintendent, Robert Greenberg, said, ''We would jump at the opportunity'' for federal aid.
 Promoting favorite causes, many industry and nonprofit groups are joining the push for federal aid. They include the Regional Plan Association, the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, commuter groups and construction unions.
 ''It's imperative that the money does come to Long Island,'' said Marc W. Herbst, executive director of the Long Island Contractors' Association. ''We contribute $8 billion annually to the economy, with a ripple effect in 22,800 direct and indirect jobs. Eighty percent of every dollar remains in the local economy.''
 Among projects his group wants are improving the Route 110 interchange with the Northern State Parkway, work on Routes 347 and 112, and a truck-to-rail intermodal facility at Pilgrim State Hospital, site of the proposed Heartland development. 
 Officials across the Island say they are trying to coordinate efforts. ''We need to work and act in a unified way instead of hearing from 20 different officials and trade associations with different priorities,'' said Sarah Lansdale, executive director of Sustainable Long Island, a nonprofit planning group.
 While compiling proposals, officials should weed out weak ones, said Eric Alexander, executive director of Vision Long Island, a nonprofit planning group. ''Just because it was always on the list doesn't mean it should still be on the list,'' he said. ''We don't need roads to nowhere.''
 In seeking aid, local officials may have to contend with the Island's reputation as a wealthy area, though income levels here are distorted by the high cost of living. Long Island got only 9 percent of the statewide total in the last allocation of federal transportation money, Mr. Herbst said. The Island has 14 percent of the state's population, according to 2007 census data. 
 The downturn offers bargains for capital projects, with reduced costs for contracts, supplies and interest rates, experts say. The chairman of the Regional Planning Council, John D. Cameron, said, ''You're going to get the best prices.''
 While megaprojects get the most attention, small-scale plans can also have a big impact. For example, proponents say that a $15 million sewer project for Wyandanch is critical to the rebirth of that long-struggling, mostly black and Hispanic community, by enabling new commercial and residential development.
 ''It's the linchpin that will leverage incredible benefits,'' said Steve Bellone, the Babylon town supervisor. ''I can't think of a better example of an infrastructure project.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: East Side Access tunnel work for Long Island Rail Road trains.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Long Island Rail Road's plan for a third track between Floral Park and Hicksville has been characterized as a ''game-changer.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. LI5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); COUNTIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY H BISHOP (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



228 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: No More Fear-Mongering

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''A Catastrophic Silence'' (editorial, Nov. 26) underscores the problem of turning a blind eye to the dilemma of our nation's estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants. While reasonable people may have different viewpoints about this difficult challenge, bigotry should never become acceptable in public debate. 
 As a longtime leader in advancing intergroup relations, the American Jewish Committee is concerned with the racism, fear-mongering and scapegoating that increasingly are a regular part of the immigration debate. This rhetoric comes not only from extremist groups, but also from public officials, pundits on television and radio, and other influential Americans.
 Such language is antithetical to American values. There must be a return to reasoned discourse in this significant national debate. Thus, we urge civility in this debate, not demagoguery. At stake are nothing less than individual lives, the unity of families, the state of our economy and the very nature of our society.
 Jeffrey Sinensky New York, Nov. 26, 2008
 The writer is director, Domestic Policy Department, for the American Jewish Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); WRITERS (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



229 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; HOLIDAY BOOKS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 3593 words

HEADLINE: 100 Notable Books of 2008

 BODY:
The Book Review has selected this list from books reviewed since Dec. 2, 2007, when we published our previous Notables list.
 Fiction & Poetry
 AMERICAN WIFE.By Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $26.) The life of this novel's heroine -- a first lady who comes to realize, at the height of the Iraq war, that she has compromised her youthful ideals -- is conspicuously modeled on that of Laura Bush. 
 ATMOSPHERIC DISTURBANCES.By Rivka Galchen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) The psychiatrist-narrator of this brainy, whimsical first novel believes that his beautiful, much-younger Argentine wife has been replaced by an exact double. 
 BASS CATHEDRAL.By Nathaniel Mackey. (New Directions, paper, $16.95.) Mackey's fictive world is an insular one of musicians composing, playing and talking jazz in the private language of their art. 
 BEAUTIFUL CHILDREN.By Charles Bock. (Random House, $25.) This bravura first novel, set against a corruptly compelling Las Vegas landscape, revolves around the disappearance of a surly 12-year-old boy. 
 BEIJING COMA.By Ma Jian. Translated by Flora Drew. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) Ma's novel, an important political statement, looks at China through the life of a dissident paralyzed at Tiananmen Square. 
 A BETTER ANGEL: Stories.By Chris Adrian. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) For Adrian -- who is both a pediatrician and a divinity student -- illness and a heightened spiritual state are closely related conditions. 
 BLACK FLIES.By Shannon Burke. (Soft Skull, paper, $14.95.) A rookie paramedic in New York City is overwhelmed by the horrors of his job in this arresting, confrontational novel, informed by Burke's five years of experience on city ambulances. 
 THE BLUE STAR.By Tony Earley. (Little, Brown, $23.99.) The caring, thoughtful hero of Earley's engrossing first novel, ''Jim the Boy,'' is now 17 and confronting not only the eternal turmoil of love, but also venality and the frightening calls of duty and war. 
 THE BOAT.By Nam Le. (Knopf, $22.95.) In the opening story of Le's first collection, a blocked writer succumbs to the easy temptations of ''ethnic lit.'' 
 BREATH.By Tim Winton. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Surfing offers this darkly exhilarating novel's protagonist an escape from a drab Australian town. 
 DANGEROUS LAUGHTER: Thirteen Stories.By Steven Millhauser. (Knopf, $24.) In his latest collection, Millhauser advances his chosen themes -- the slippery self, the power of hysterical young people -- with even more confidence and power than before. 
 DEAR AMERICAN AIRLINES.By Jonathan Miles. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.) Miles's fine first novel takes the form of a letter from a stranded traveler, his life a compilation of regrets, who uses the time to digress on an impressive array of cultural issues, large and small. 
 DIARY OF A BAD YEAR.By J. M. Coetzee. (Viking, $24.95.) Coetzee follows the late career of one Senor C, who, like Coetzee himself, is a South African writer transplanted to Australia and the author of a novel titled ''Waiting for the Barbarians.'' 
 DICTATION: A Quartet.By Cynthia Ozick. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) In the title story of this expertly turned collection, Henry James and Joseph Conrad embody Ozick's polarity of art and ardor. 
 ELEGY: Poems.By Mary Jo Bang. (Graywolf, $20.) Grief is converted into art in this bleak, forthright collection, centered on the death of the poet's son. 
 THE ENGLISH MAJOR.By Jim Harrison. (Grove, $24.) A 60-year-old cherry farmer and former English teacher -- an inversion of the classic Harrison hero -- sets out on a trip west after being dumped by his wife. 
 FANON.By John Edgar Wideman. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Wideman's novel -- raw and astringent, yet with a high literary polish -- explores the life of the psychiatrist and revolutionary Frantz Fanon. 
 THE FINDER.By Colin Harrison. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A New York thriller, played out against the nasty world of global capitalism. 
 FINE JUST THE WAY IT IS: Wyoming Stories 3 .By Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $25.) These rich, bleak stories offer an American West in which the natural elements are murderous and folks aren't much better. 
 THE GOOD THIEF .By Hannah Tinti. (Dial, $25.) In Tinti's first novel, set in mid-19th-century New England, a con man teaches an orphan the art of the lie. 
 HALF OF THE WORLD IN LIGHT: New and Selected Poems.By Juan Felipe Herrera. (University of Arizona, paper, $24.95.) Herrera, known for portrayals of Chicano life, is unpredictable and wildly inventive. 
 HIS ILLEGAL SELF.By Peter Carey. (Knopf, $25.) In this enthralling novel, a boy goes underground with a defiant hippie indulging her maternal urge. 
 HOME.By Marilynne Robinson. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) Revisiting the events of her novel ''Gilead'' from another perspective, Robinson has written an anguished pastoral, at once bitter and joyful. 
 INDIGNATION.By Philip Roth. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) Marcus Messner is a sophomore at a small, conservative Ohio college at the time of the Korean War. The novel he narrates, like Roth's last two, is ruthlessly economical and relentlessly deathbound. 
 THE LAZARUS PROJECT.By Aleksandar Hemon. (Riverhead, $24.95.) This novel's despairing immigrant protagonist becomes intrigued with the real-life killing of a presumed anarchist in Chicago in 1908. 
 LEGEND OF A SUICIDE.By David Vann. (University of Massachusetts, $24.95.) In his first story collection, Vann leads the reader to vital places while exorcizing demons born from the suicide of his father. 
 LIFE CLASS.By Pat Barker. (Doubleday, $23.95.) Barker's new novel, about a group of British artists overtaken by World War I, concentrates more on the turmoil of love than on the trauma of war. 
 LUSH LIFE.By Richard Price. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Chandler -- and Bellow, too -- peeps out from Price's novel, in which an aspiring writer cum restaurant manager, mugged in the gentrifying Lower East Side of Manhattan, himself becomes a suspect. 
 A MERCY.By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $23.95.) Summoning voices from the 17th century, Morrison performs her deepest excavation yet into America's history and exhumes the country's twin original sins: the importation of African slaves and the near extermination of Native Americans. 
 MODERN LIFE: Poems .By Matthea Harvey. (Graywolf, paper, $14.) Harvey is willing to take risks, and her reward is that richest, rarest thing, genuine poetry. 
 A MOST WANTED MAN .By John le Carre. (Scribner, $28.) This powerful novel, centered on a half-Russian, half-Chechen, half-crazy fugitive in Germany, swims with operatives whose desperation to avert another 9/11 provokes a slow-burning fire in every line. 
 MY REVOLUTIONS.By Hari Kunzru. (Dutton, $25.95.) Kunzru's third novel is an extraordinary autumnal depiction of a failed '60s radical. 
 NETHERLAND.By Joseph O'Neill. (Pantheon, $23.95.) In the wittiest, angriest, most exacting and most desolate work of fiction yet about post-9/11 New York and London, the game of cricket provides solace to a man whose family disintegrates after the attacks. 
 OPAL SUNSET: Selected Poems, 1958-2008.By Clive James. (Norton, $25.95.) James, a staunch formalist, is firmly situated in the sociable, plain-spoken tradition that runs from Auden through Larkin. 
 THE OTHER.By David Guterson. (Knopf, $24.95.) In this novel from the author of ''Snow Falling on Cedars,'' a schoolteacher nourishes a friendship with a privileged recluse. 
 OUR STORY BEGINS: New and Selected Stories.By Tobias Wolff. (Knopf, $26.95.) Some of Wolff's best work is concentrated here, revealing his gift for evoking the breadth of American experience. 
 THE ROAD HOME.By Rose Tremain. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) A widowed Russian emigrant, fearfully navigating the strange city of London, learns that his home village is about to be inundated. 
 THE SACRED BOOK OF THE WEREWOLF.By Victor Pelevin. Translated by Andrew Bromfield. (Viking, $25.95.) A supernatural call girl narrates Pelevin's satirical allegory of post-Soviet, post-9/11 Russia. 
 THE SCHOOL ON HEART'S CONTENT ROAD.By Carolyn Chute. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) In Chute's first novel in nearly 10 years, disparate characters cluster around an off-the-grid communal settlement. 
 SIR GAWAIN AND THE GREEN KNIGHT: A New Verse Translation.By Simon Armitage. (Norton, $25.95.) One of the eerie, exuberant joys of Middle English poetry, in an alliterative rendering that captures the original's drive, dialect and landscape. 
 SLEEPING IT OFF IN RAPID CITY: Poems, New and Selected.By August Kleinzahler. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Kleinzahler seeks the true heart of places, whether repellent, beautiful or both at once. 
 TELEX FROM CUBA.By Rachel Kushner. (Scribner, $25.) In this multilayered first novel, international drifters try to bury pasts that include murder, adultery and neurotic meltdown, even as the Castro brothers gather revolutionaries in the hills. 
 2666.By Roberto Bolano. Translated by Natasha Wimmer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, cloth and paper, $30.) The five autonomous sections of this posthumously published novel interlock to form an astonishing whole, a supreme capstone to Bolano's vaulting ambition. 
 UNACCUSTOMED EARTH.By Jhumpa Lahiri. (Knopf, $25.) In eight sensitive stories, Lahiri evokes the anxiety, excitement and transformations felt by Bengali immigrants and their American children. 
 THE UNFORTUNATES.By B. S. Johnson. (New Directions, $24.95.) This novel, first published in 1969, dovetails theme (the accidents of memory) with eccentric form (unbound chapters to be read in any order). 
 WHEN WILL THERE BE GOOD NEWS?By Kate Atkinson. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) Jackson Brodie, the hero of Atkinson's previous literary thrillers, takes the case of a mother and baby who suddenly disappear. 
 THE WIDOWS OF EASTWICK.By John Updike. (Knopf, $24.95.) In this ingenious sequel to ''The Witches of Eastwick,'' the three title characters, old ladies now, renew their sisterhood, return to their old hometown and contrive to atone for past crimes. 
 YESTERDAY'S WEATHER.By Anne Enright. (Grove, $24.) Working-class Irish characters grapple with love, marriage, confusion and yearning in Enright's varied, if somewhat disenchanted, stories. 
 Nonfiction
 AMERICAN LION: Andrew Jackson in the White House .By Jon Meacham. (Random House, $30.) Meacham, the editor of Newsweek, discerns a democratic dignity in the seventh president's populism. 
 ANGLER: The Cheney Vice Presidency.By Barton Gellman. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) An engrossing portrait of Dick Cheney as a master political manipulator. 
 BACARDI AND THE LONG FIGHT FOR CUBA: The Biography of a Cause.By Tom Gjelten. (Viking, $27.95.) An NPR correspondent paints a vivid portrait of the anti-Castro clan behind the liquor empire. 
 THE BIG SORT: Why the Clustering of Like-Minded America Is Tearing Us Apart.By Bill Bishop with Robert G. Cushing. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A journalist and a statistician see political dangers in the country's increasing tendency to separate into solipsistic blocs. 
 BLOOD MATTERS: From Inherited Illness to Designer Babies, How the World and I Found Ourselves in the Future of the Gene.By Masha Gessen. (Harcourt, $25.) Hard choices followed Gessen's discovery that she carries a dangerous genetic mutation. 
 CAPITOL MEN: The Epic Story of Reconstruction Through the Lives of the First Black Congressmen.By Philip Dray. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A collective biography of the pioneers of black political involvement. 
 THE CHALLENGE: Hamdan v. Rumsfeld and the Fight Over Presidential Power.By Jonathan Mahler. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) An objective, thorough study of a landmark case for Guantanamo detainees. 
 CHAMPLAIN'S DREAM.By David Hackett Fischer. (Simon & Schuster, $40.) Fischer argues that France's North American colonial success was attributable largely to one remarkable man, Samuel de Champlain. 
 CHASING THE FLAME: Sergio Vieira de Mello and the Fight to Save the World.By Samantha Power. (Penguin Press, $32.95.) Vieira de Mello, who was killed in Iraq in 2003, embodied both the idealism and the limitations of the United Nations, which he served long and loyally. 
 CONDOLEEZZA RICE. An American Life: A Biography.By Elisabeth Bumiller. (Random House, $27.95.) A New York Times reporter casts a keen eye on Rice's tenure as a policy maker, her close ties to George Bush, and her personal and professional past. 
 THE DARK SIDE: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals.By Jane Mayer. (Doubleday, $27.50.) A New Yorker writer recounts the emergence of the widespread use of torture as a central tool in the fight against terrorism. 
 DELTA BLUES: The Life and Times of the Mississippi Masters Who Revolutionized American Music.By Ted Gioia. (Norton, $27.95.) Gioia's survey balances the story of the music with that of its reception. 
 DESCARTES' BONES: A Skeletal History of the Conflict Between Faith and Reason.By Russell Shorto. (Doubleday, $26.) Shorto's smart, elegant study turns the early separation of Descartes's skull from the rest of his remains into an irresistible metaphor. 
 DREAMS AND SHADOWS: The Future of the Middle East.By Robin Wright. (Penguin Press, $26.95.) This fluent and intelligent book describes the struggles of people from Morocco to Iran to reform or replace long-entrenched national regimes. 
 THE DRUNKARD'S WALK: How Randomness Rules Our Lives.By Leonard Mlodinow. (Pantheon, $24.95.) This breezy crash course intersperses probabilistic mind-benders with profiles of theorists. 
 AN EXACT REPLICA OF A FIGMENT OF MY IMAGINATION: A Memoir.By Elizabeth McCracken. (Little, Brown, $19.99.) An unstinting account of the novelist's emotions after the stillbirth of her first child. 
 FACTORY GIRLS: From Village to City in a Changing China.By Leslie T. Chang. (Spiegel & Grau, $26.) Chang's engrossing account delves deeply into the lives of young migrant workers in southern China. 
 THE FOREVER WAR.By Dexter Filkins. (Knopf, $25.) Filkins, a New York Times reporter who was embedded with American troops during the attack on Falluja, has written an account of the Iraq war in the tradition of Michael Herr's ''Dispatches.'' 
 FREEDOM'S BATTLE: The Origins of Humanitarian Intervention.By Gary J. Bass. (Knopf, $35.) Bass's book is both a history and an argument for military interventions as a tool of international justice today. 
 A GREAT IDEA AT THE TIME: The Rise, Fall, and Curious Afterlife of the Great Books.By Alex Beam. (PublicAffairs, $24.95.) The minds behind a curious project that continues to exert a hold in some quarters. 
 HALLELUJAH JUNCTION: Composing an American Life.By John Adams. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Adams's wry, smart memoir stands with books by Hector Berlioz and Louis Armstrong among the most readably incisive autobiographies of major musical figures. 
 THE HEMINGSES OF MONTICELLO: An American Family.By Annette Gordon-Reed. (Norton, $35.) Gordon-Reed continues her study of the relationship between Sally Hemings and Thomas Jefferson. 
 HOT, FLAT, AND CROWDED: Why We Need a Green Revolution -- and How It Can Renew America.By Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.95.) The Times columnist turns his attention to possible business-friendly solutions to global warming. 
 THE HOUSE AT SUGAR BEACH: In Search of a Lost African Childhood.By Helene Cooper. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) Cooper, a New York Times reporter who fled a warring Liberia as a child, returned to confront the ghosts of her past -- and to look for a lost sister. 
 HOW FICTION WORKS.By James Wood. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Concentrating on the art of the novel, the New Yorker critic presents a compact, erudite vade mecum with acute observations on individual passages and authors. 
 MORAL CLARITY: A Guide for Grown-Up Idealists.By Susan Neiman. (Harcourt, $27.) Neiman champions Enlightenment values with no hint of oversimplification, dogmatism or misplaced piety. 
 THE NIGHT OF THE GUN: A Reporter Investigates the Darkest Story of His Life. His Own.By David Carr. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) Carr, a New York Times culture reporter, sifts through his drug- and alcohol-addicted past. 
 NIXONLAND: The Rise of a President and the Fracturing of America.By Rick Perlstein. (Scribner, $37.50.) Perlstein's compulsively readable study holds that Nixon's divisive and enduring legacy is the ''notion that there are two kinds of Americans.'' 
 NOTHING TO BE FRIGHTENED OF.By Julian Barnes. (Knopf, $24.95.) With no faith in an afterlife, why should an agnostic fear death? On this simple question, Barnes hangs an elegant memoir and meditation, full of a novelist's affection for the characters who wander in and out. 
 NUREYEV: The Life.By Julie Kavanagh. (Pantheon, $37.50.) The son of Soviet Tatars could never get enough of anything -- space, applause, money, sex -- but he attracted an audience of millions to the art form he mastered. 
 PICTURES AT A REVOLUTION: Five Movies and the Birth of the New Hollywood.By Mark Harris. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) The best-picture nominees of 1967 were a collage of America's psyche, and more. 
 THE POST-AMERICAN WORLD.By Fareed Zakaria. (Norton, $25.95.) This relentlessly intelligent examination of power focuses less on American decline than on the rise of China, trailed by India. 
 PREDICTABLY IRRATIONAL: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions.By Dan Ariely. (Harper/HarperCollins, $25.95.) Moving comfortably from the lab to broad social questions to his own life, an M.I.T. economist pokes holes in conventional market theory. 
 THE RACE CARD: How Bluffing About Bias Makes Race Relations Worse.By Richard Thompson Ford. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Ford vivisects every sacred cow in ''post-racist'' America. 
 RETRIBUTION: The Battle for Japan, 1944-45.By Max Hastings. (Knopf, $35.) In this masterly account, Hastings describes Japanese madness eliciting American ruthlessness in the Pacific Theater. 
 A SECULAR AGE.By Charles Taylor. (Belknap/Harvard University, $39.95.) A philosophy professor thinks our era has been too quick to dismiss religious faith. 
 SHAKESPEARE'S WIFE.By Germaine Greer. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.95.) With a polemicist's vision and a scholar's patience, Greer sets out to rescue Ann Hathaway from layers of biographical fantasy. 
 THE SUPERORGANISM: The Beauty, Elegance, and Strangeness of Insect Societies.By Bert Holldobler and Edward O. Wilson. (Norton, $55.) The central conceit of this astonishing study is that an insect colony is a single animal raised to a higher level. 
 TELL ME HOW THIS ENDS: General David Petraeus and the Search for a Way Out of Iraq.By Linda Robinson. (PublicAffairs, $27.95.) A probing, conscientious account of strategy and tactics in post-surge Iraq. 
 THE TEN-CENT PLAGUE: The Great Comic-Book Scare and How It Changed America.By David Hajdu. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) A worthy history of the midcentury crusade against the comics industry. 
 THEY KNEW THEY WERE RIGHT: The Rise of the Neocons.By Jacob Heilbrunn. (Doubleday, $26.) A journalist traces the neoconservative movement from its origins at the City College of New York in the 1940s. 
 THIS REPUBLIC OF SUFFERING: Death and the American Civil War.By Drew Gilpin Faust. (Knopf, $27.95.) The lasting impact of the war's immense loss of life is the subject of this extraordinary account by Harvard's president. 
 THE THREE OF US: A Family Story.By Julia Blackburn. (Pantheon, $26.) Searingly and unflinchingly, Blackburn describes an appalling upbringing at the hands of her catastrophically unfit parents. 
 THRUMPTON HALL: A Memoir of Life in My Father's House.By Miranda Seymour. (Harper/HarperCollins, $24.95.) Seymour's odd and oddly affecting book instantly catapults her father into the front rank of impossible and eccentric English parents. 
 TRAFFIC: Why We Drive the Way We Do (And What It Says About Us).By Tom Vanderbilt. (Knopf, $24.95.) A surprising, enlightening look at the psychology of the human beings behind the steering wheels. 
 THE TRILLION DOLLAR MELTDOWN: Easy Money, High Rollers, and the Great Credit Crash.By Charles R. Morris. (PublicAffairs, $22.95.) How we got into the mess we're in, explained briefly and brilliantly. 
 A VOYAGE LONG AND STRANGE: Rediscovering the New World.By Tony Horwitz. (Holt, $27.50.) An accessible popular history of early America, with plenty of self-tutoring and colorful reporting. 
 WAKING GIANT: America in the Age of Jackson.By David S. Reynolds. (Harper/HarperCollins, $29.95.) Reynolds excels at depicting the cultural, social and intellectual currents that buffeted the nation. 
 WHILE THEY SLEPT: An Inquiry Into the Murder of a Family.By Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $25.) Harrison's account brings moral clarity to the dark fate of the family of Jody Gilley, who was 16 when she survived a rampage by her brother in 1984. 
 WHITE HEAT: The Friendship of Emily Dickinson and Thomas Wentworth Higginson.By Brenda Wineapple. (Knopf, $27.95.) The hitherto elusive Higginson was the poet's chosen reader, admirer and advocate. 
 THE WILD PLACES.By Robert Macfarlane. (Penguin, paper, $15.) Macfarlane's unorthodox British landscapes are furrowed with human histories and haunted by literary prophets. 
 THE WORLD IS WHAT IT IS: The Authorized Biography of V. S. Naipaul.By Patrick French. (Knopf, $30.) French has created a monument fully worthy of its subject, elucidating the enduring but painfully asymmetrical love triangle at the core of Naipaul's life and work.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL COX) (pg.BR9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (96%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POETRY (78%); WRITERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); PARAMEDICS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (69%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%) IRAQ (91%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



230 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''If we go on this way for another 25 years, we won't have an affordable system of higher education.''
 Patrick M. Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, which found that published college tuition and fees increased 439 percent from 1982 to 2007, adjusted for inflation, while median family income rose 147 percent.
 ''It's all going to be very Darwinian.''
 Beth Buccini, an owner of Kirna Zabete, a specialty store in Manhattan, on luxury retailers, which are cutting prices at an unheard-of pace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); PRICE CUTTING (84%); RETAILERS (82%); LUXURY GOODS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



231 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Diversify! Diversify! (Yes, Even Now)

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THIS market meltdown is testing not only investors' patience and risk tolerance, but also their faith in one of the most widely accepted principles of investing: diversification.
 When you own different types of assets in a portfolio, some holdings should be rising while others are falling. That's the theory, anyway. But it hasn't been working out that way for many investors.
 With the exception of Treasury securities, virtually all asset classes have fallen in unison of late. These include even supposedly safe investments like high-quality corporate bonds; the average intermediate-term, investment-grade fixed-income fund has lost more than 6 percent of its value since the stock market peaked on Oct. 9, 2007. 
 Many asset classes have performed even worse, falling by various double-digit percentages since the market peak. This group includes domestic blue-chip stocks, small-company shares, foreign equities, commodities, real estate investment trusts, high-yield bonds and emerging-market debt. 
 Over the short term, diversification does not promise that your portfolio won't decline. Rather, the strategy is intended to ensure that at least some of your investments hold their value at any given time.
 By this token, diversification hasn't entirely failed in the current downturn. But investors needed to diversify some of their money into two specific assets -- Treasury securities and cash -- to call this strategy a success.
 Simply diversifying your types of stocks didn't help. For example, between the October 2007 peak and the start of December this year, both the Standard & Poor's 500 index of domestic stocks and the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE index of foreign shares fell more than 40 percent. 
 Nor did it help to own commodities, which some investors thought would soar regardless of the health of the United States economy. But as it became clear that the entire global economy was slowing -- and as crude oil prices fell to less than $50 a barrel from around $140 -- most of the major commodity indexes plummeted.
 Clearly, the most important step in diversifying your portfolio is to hold some of your money in stocks and some in bonds, said James A. Shambo, a financial planner in Colorado Springs. But only if you had put a large portion of your bond holdings into Treasury securities would your overall portfolio not have fallen so severely. 
 Say you invested $100,000 in the S.& P. 500 on Oct. 9, 2007, and held it there until the start of this month. Thanks to the bear market, you would be left with just $58,750. Had you diversified properly -- say, by putting 40 percent of your money in the S.& P. 500; 25 percent in foreign stocks in the MSCI EAFE index; 25 percent in the broad bond market as represented by the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond index; and 10 percent in cash instruments like Treasury bills, you would still be down, but your portfolio would be worth more than $72,825. 
 As for your stocks, the only strategy that seemed to work -- or at least incur smaller losses -- was dollar-cost averaging, a way of diversifying by making purchases in regular increments. 
 For example, if you invested $150,000 in a lump sum in the S.& P. 500 at the start of October 2007, you would have had $90,400 left by the start of this month. But had you invested $10,000 a month, every month, starting last October, you would have had roughly $106,000 left in your account. 
 Time is a crucial ingredient in all diversification strategies. ''Pooh-poohing diversification will always work if you pick a short-enough time period to look at,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.& P. 
 This is particularly true if you examine only periods of crisis. In a panic, there tends to be a ''flight to quality.'' This means frightened investors are likely to sell their risky assets to move into Treasury securities, which has happened in the current crisis. Of course, all the assets investors sell during panics will move in lock step. 
 That would explain why, in most bear markets, ''there is simply no place to hide in the stock market,'' Mr. Stovall said. He studied bear markets going back to 1946 and found that every sector in the S.&. P. 500 lost ground by double-digit percentages during the average downturn. 
 Only over time does diversification really show its worth. For example, over the 10 years through November, the S.& P. 500 lost almost 1 percent a year, on average. But a diversified portfolio of 40 percent S.& P. 500 stocks, 25 percent foreign shares in the MSCI EAFE index, 25 percent in fixed-income securities found in the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, and 10 percent in Treasury bills gained nearly 2 percent annually, on average, according to T. Rowe Price. 
 At least that was a gain. And the diversified portfolio was also 36 percent less volatile than the all-stock portfolio.
 Investors need to appreciate the limits of diversification, said Ned Notzon, chairman of the asset allocation committee of T. Rowe Price. 
 ''If someone is really concerned about the losses they suffered in the past year -- if on Dec. 31, 2007, they thought they needed to preserve all their money as of Dec. 31, 2008 -- then they really shouldn't have been diversified to begin with,'' Mr. Notzon said. Instead, those short-term investors should have kept their money in cash, or a combination of cash and short-term debt. 
 Mr. Shambo adds that investors who are growing skeptical of diversification need to ask themselves an important question: What other choices do they have?
 ''If the alternative is to concentrate your bets, where would you have concentrated during this sell-off?'' he asked. 
 The answer, of course, is Treasuries. But even if you were smart enough to put all your money in them before the stock market peaked in October 2007, you would now have a portfolio that is concentrated in the sole asset class that is trading at frothy prices in this bear market. 
 OF course, if your intention is simply to hold Treasuries to maturity, you'll have no problem. But if you want to sell those bonds -- or a Treasury bond fund -- once the economy starts to recover, you may be disappointed by the price you are offered. 
 That is why it still makes sense for long-term investors to diversify -- to ensure that not all of their money is tied up in the 
 priciest asset at any given moment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



232 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Haute Frugality

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
COMME DES GARCONS FOR H & M
 It was just another November morning after yet another triple-digit drop in the Dow; the news of the day concerned the government's latest efforts to revive our consumer-driven economy. And at the H & M in Herald Square in Manhattan, a line of shoppers stretched down the block. When the store opened, they moved in quickly and did not merely browse; they bought, evidently with gusto. ''Fabulous boys who were obviously late for something panicked as they tried on drop-crotch pants in the middle of the aisle,'' a blogger recounted on Racked.com. ''We saw a shirtless dude and sweating women.'' But even this minor retail scrum was, in a way, of a piece with the zeitgeist: it was about snapping up a high-end apparel brand at apparently bargain prices. 
 The underlying tactic has become a familiar one: a big retail chain pairs up with a fashion-world star on a lower-priced line for that chain only. Target has sold Isaac Mizrahi garments since 2003 and has offered limited-run collaborations with Proenza Schouler, among others. H & M -- a chain started in Sweden that sells trendy clothes at very low prices in 33 countries -- has previously sold lines from Karl Lagerfeld and Roberto Cavalli. What drew a conspicuous number of consumers to some H & M locations last month was a heavily promoted team-up with Comme des Garcons, a longtime favorite label for a certain segment of stylemongers. As always, the idea is to lend a bit of couture cachet to the retailer and to allow the exclusive designer to dabble in the mass market. The Comme des Garcons designer Rei Kawakubo, long admired in the fashion world for the borderline avant-garde collections she sends down the runways, has said that her decision to work with H & M was partly an effort ''to appeal to people who may not yet understand Comme des Garcons.'' An H & M news release described her work as ''surprisingly wearable.'' 
 That said, setting up shop at the intersection of aspiration and accessibility does feel a little different now from the way it did a year or two ago. The underlying trend-logic of this strategy previously turned on the belief in a societal surge toward the finer things -- a nation ''trading up'' into new ''masstige'' lifestyles. Lately, enthusiasm for that theory has retreated even faster than our credit-card limits.
 And yet long lines and spirited buying greeted the Comme des Garcons for H & M collection not just in Herald Square but also in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Toronto, Chicago and London. (It went on sale the same day in all those markets, after rolling out at a new H & M location in the Harajuku shopping district in Tokyo; Kawakubo is Japanese, and her company is based in Tokyo.) Many reports indicated almost-instant sellouts of certain items, like a $60 polka-dot scarf, a $70 wallet and a $350 dress. That's quite pricey for H & M but a fraction of what, for instance, a regular Comme des Garcons dress would cost. The Racked.com blogger reported having ''snagged cardigans and shirts as Christmas presents for fellow Comme lovers'' but having no chance at the most ''coveted items.''
 But it turns out there was a bit of a twist to this particular exercise in making an exclusive brand available in a more inclusive retail setting. Although there are 168 H & M locations in the United States, Comme des Garcons products are available at just eight of them, all in big cities. ''We've looked at where the market is'' for high-low collaborations like this one, an H & M spokeswoman explains. That market, then, would appear to be consumers who already ''understand'' Comme des Garcons well enough to stand in line to gorge on its products at unusually low prices. In other words, it is not so much about the masses grasping for prestige as it is about a rarefied consumer group grasping for deals -- or, perhaps, for a form of splurging that seems more socially acceptable while fellow citizens are losing jobs and nest eggs. If new trend-logic invariably demands a fresh coinage, consider frugalitism. (Or not.) 
 Possibly the mild frenzy for this particular collaboration was both an echo of consumer exuberance that came to seem normal in recent years and a glimpse of where shopping culture is headed. Standing in line for the Comme des Garcons for H & M collection may not be the same as standing in line for the new iPhone or Blackberry -- but it's also not completely different. Maybe shopping culture hasn't quite expired, as some suggest; it has just been marked down a bit. n

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); HAUTE COUTURE (73%)

COMPANY: H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (92%)

TICKER: HM.B (STO) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWEDEN (78%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



233 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN ST. ALBANS, QUEENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Bluesy Home Market With a Jazzy Past

BYLINE: By JOSEPH PLAMBECK

 BODY:
IT used to be easy for residents to rest on St. Albans's laurels.
 For several decades, starting in the 1940s, this serene neighborhood in southeastern Queens was a bastion for some of New York's most famous African-Americans. Jazz greats like Count Basie and Ella Fitzgerald, as well as sports heroes like the Brooklyn Dodgers' Roy Campanella, called it home. By the 1970s, the area was solidly African-American and middle-class, and living there was a sign of success.
 Visitors today don't have to look far to see the neighborhood's pride. Near the Long Island Rail Road station in St. Albans, a giant mural depicts some of the neighborhood's famous residents.
 But then came the 1980s, when, like much of the rest of the city, the neighborhood faced rising crime rates and drug use. And then, in the last 10 years, with real estate prices rising, investors and developers sought out one-family houses, the predominant housing stock, and converted them into two-family houses or built row houses where detached houses had once stood. 
 Suddenly, parking became more scarce. Quiet streets became busier. More renters moved in, some longtime residents say, without any commitment to the neighborhood. 
 A result, said Robert Gibbs, a 32-year veteran of local real estate, was ''a real decline in the area'' -- though not steep enough to put him off. He lives here, in a four-bedroom colonial that he bought for $36,500 in 1978. He estimated the house would now sell for about $400,000. 
 Greg Mays, a local community organizer, said: ''Overdevelopment in southeast Queens was the biggest threat that we faced before the credit meltdown. The silver lining of the meltdown is that all of the development came to a roaring halt.''
 Even before the downturn, though, community organizers had been fighting to preserve the area's history and protect its suburban feel. Last fall, with the support of Mr. Gibbs and Mr. Mays, among others, the City Council rezoned much of the neighborhood to make it much more difficult to build multifamily homes or convert single-families. 
 It is the tranquil atmosphere that has lured many new residents, including Blanche Charles, a nursing assistant who lives with her two children in a three-bedroom home she bought last year. ''It is a nice, quiet neighborhood,'' she said, ''and usually no one is on the streets at night.'' 
 Those are just the attributes that need protecting, said Mr. Mays, the president of the Addisleigh Park Civic Organization, which is named after the 650-house enclave where many of the well-known African-Americans lived. 
 Last year, his group formed a partnership with the Historic Districts Council, a preservation research and advocacy group, to come up with a definitive history of the area and its architecture. That research has been sent to the state's historic preservation office so that Addisleigh Park will be considered for the National Register of Historic Places. ''It's always nice to know that your neighborhood has a little magical significance,'' Mr. Mays said.
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 In St. Albans, where almost all the buildings top out at two stories and decades-old trees line the streets, the bustle of the city seems far away.
 Mr. Gibbs says it draws people who ''enjoy the idea of having a country setting while living in the city.''
 The heart of the neighborhood is the intersection of Linden and Farmers Boulevards. Anything northwest of that is generally considered Addisleigh Park, an upscale area with Tudors on well-kept lawns.
 St. Albans, an area of about three square miles, is roughly bordered on the north by Hollis Avenue, on the east by Springfield Boulevard, and on the south by Merrick Boulevard. A campus for the St. Albans Veterans Affairs Community Center sits in the southwest corner.
 Most of the housing is single-family colonials -- usually with three or four bedrooms -- although two-family houses and row houses have made inroads and are scattered throughout. Lot sizes are big by New York City standards: usually 40 or 50 feet by 100 feet.
 Many of the people moving out in recent years, Mr. Gibbs said, have been retirees, who lived here for decades and decided to go south. In general, he said, younger families have taken their place.
 Rupert Green, who teaches computer certification classes, moved here from the Bronx five years ago and bought a two-family house for $426,000 last year. He now rents out the two-bedroom top section of the house for $1,100 a month, and lives in the one-bedroom below. 
 ''People watch out for each other,'' said Mr. Green, an immigrant from Jamaica. ''When snow falls, people help each other. That's why we live in the neighborhood.''
 Although the numbers of West Indians, Latinos and other minority members have grown in recent years, St. Albans remains solidly African-American. More than 70 percent of the nearly 225,000 residents living in Community District 12, which includes St. Albans, identified themselves as African-American, according to the 2000 census.
 Pride in Barack Obama's election to the presidency is omnipresent; his name and face are displayed in windows and on paintings sold in local stores. It is even audible. On one recent afternoon, as a man in a Lexus sport utility vehicle drove down Merrick Boulevard, Mr. Obama's acceptance speech blared out his car window.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 St. Albans has been hit hard by the economic downturn; buyers will find a good selection and dropping prices.
 In the past year, several brokers said, prices have declined by more than 20 percent, because sellers have had to compete with an influx of foreclosed homes for sale. The market values of many homes in St. Albans are now below the city's assessed values, Mr. Gibbs said.
 ''We haven't hit the bottom yet,'' he said. ''It'll be another year or so before things start to turn around.''
 Generally, buyers will find detached one-family homes with three bedrooms averaging about $350,000 and four-bedrooms $375,000. Two-family homes sell for about $550,000, although some are priced around $700,000. 
 There are now 48 one-family homes on the market, for $350,000 to $400,000, said Randy Saa, a broker with Century 21 American Homes. Twenty two-family homes are listed; prices range from $525,000 all the way to $700,000.
 Buyers pay a premium to live in Addisleigh Park, where there are nine homes for sale, Mr. Saa said. One-family homes there generally start around $450,000. 
 WHAT TO DO
 The neighborhood's main commercial zone extends down Linden Boulevard from the intersection of Farmers Boulevard, and offers Caribbean restaurants and soul food. One of the biggest draws, residents say, is Jean's Caribbean-American Restaurant, right at the corner of Linden and Farmers. Beauty salons are plentiful.
 In the warmer months Roy Wilkins Park, all 50-plus acres of it, is a popular destination and the site of the 325-seat Black Spectrum Theater. 
 Just to the west of the Addisleigh enclave lie the 11 acres of wide open green space at St. Albans Park.
 THE SCHOOLS
 Through Grade 5, many students attend either St. Albans (Public School 36) or Roy Wilkins (P.S. 136), which also includes prekindergarten. Both schools perform below the city average. On the state proficiency exams taken last year at No. 36, the better performing, 53 percent of fourth graders met standards in English and 70 percent in math, versus 61 and 80 citywide.
 For Grades 6 through 8, nearly 700 attend Linden (Intermediate School 192). Of eighth-graders, 34 percent met standards in reading and 42 percent in math, versus 43 and 60 citywide. 
 Springfield Gardens High School was replaced in recentyears with two smaller schools at the same site: George Washington Carver and Excelsior. SAT averages at Carver last year were 389 in reading, 405 in math and 384 in writing, versus 488, 503 and 475 statewide.
 THE COMMUTE
 Although St. Albans has no subway stop, commuters have a few options. The Long Island Rail Road stops near Addisleigh Park and the St. Albans Community Living Center. The northern part of the neighborhood is served by the railroad's Hollis station, at 193rd Street and Woodhull Avenue. For both trains, getting to Manhattan requires a transfer at the Jamaica station; the total trip to Pennsylvania Station takes about 30 minutes at peak times.
 Many commuters take the Q3, Q4 and Q83 buses to neighboring Jamaica and transfer to the E train.
 The neighborhood is also served by the Q77 bus.
 THE HISTORY
 St. Albans is prominently featured in the monthly tour of Queens jazz sites offered by the Flushing Council on Culture and the Arts. It starts at the Flushing Town Hall and makes its way to nearby Corona and then to Addisleigh Park before returning to Flushing. The cost for nonmembers is $35.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THEY LIVED HERE: Under a Long Island Rail Road bridge that spans Linden Boulevard in St. Albans, passers-by are dwarfed by famous former residents -- including John Coltrane, Fats Waller and James Brown.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of St. Albans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); ZONING (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); HISTORY (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); CRIME RATES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ATHLETES (57%); SPORTS (57%); SPORTS & RECREATION (57%); NURSES & NURSING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



234 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2487 words

HEADLINE: In Hard Times, Is Best Buy's Best Good Enough?

BYLINE: By LAURA ZINN FROMM

 BODY:
AMY ADONIZ, general manager at the Best Buy flagship store, knows what her staff wants for Christmas: a case of Red Bull.
 Two weeks before Black Friday, Ms. Adoniz gave in to employees' requests and had a Red Bull vending machine installed at the store, at 62nd Street and Broadway in Manhattan. Many in the sales staff of 140 are drama students, opera singers and actors who may run themselves ragged selling electronics by day and performing at night. To keep them from getting hungry and cranky over the long Thanksgiving weekend, Ms. Adoniz let them wear slippers and Uggs boots to work, and had food delivered three times a day.
 Employees aren't the only ones being tended to this shopping season. To lure customers, Ms. Adoniz waits for -- and on -- their dogs. ''We have a doggie water bowl with filtered water, and treats for them as well,'' she says. 
 With unemployment rising sharply, and consumer spending plummeting, Best Buy managers are bending over backward to attract shoppers and are encouraged to put their personal stamp on the stores. For Ms. Adoniz, that means stoking employees with caffeine and carbohydrates and catering to customers' pets. 
 It's an extraordinarily tough time for retailers. ''November is shaping up to be the worst month in retail since I've been here 30 years,'' says Edward Schmults, C.E.O. of FAO Schwarz, the toy chain. ''Now I know how that little kid felt who misbehaved all year and then wondered if Santa was going to show up in December.'' 
 Next year could be even worse. Fitch Ratings forecasts that the United States economy will contract 1.2 percent in 2009, with consumer spending falling 1.6 percent. ''The impact on retailers is almost tragic as the economy adjusts,'' Mr. Schmults says.
 And Best Buy, to limit the damage, is not just cutting prices. It is trimming inventory and advertising, promoting higher-margin, private-label lines and pushing exclusive products, like the Blue Label series of notebook computers made for Best Buy by Hewlett-Packard and Toshiba. It's also adding new services and products that specifically aim at women.
 If the stock market and consumer spending hadn't plunged so precipitously, Best Buy, the nation's biggest electronics retailer, with $44 billion in annual revenue, might not have had to bother stocking up on delectables for dogs. The chain's chief rival, Circuit City, recently filed for bankruptcy protection and is closing 155 stores. Tweeter, a high-end rival, shut down this week, and Sharper Image's stores, which sold more exotic electronics, are liquidating. CompUSA closed most of its stores last year. 
 But no retailer is immune from the drop in consumer confidence and spending, especially one that specializes in gadgets, not groceries. Sales at Best Buy stores open more than a year were down 7.8 percent in October, compared with the same month last year. The company will not release November figures until Dec. 16, but it's already clear that November was a brutal month for electronics retailers. According to a report MasterCard Advisors released last week, sales of electronics and appliances nationwide sank 25.2 percent in November, versus the same month last year.
 Best Buy's stock price, which reached almost $54 in November 2007, closed Friday at $23.05, and its market capitalization has shrunk to $9.5 billion. Because of slumping sales, Fitch Ratings in mid-November downgraded the outlook on Best Buy's $2.7 billion in debt to negative, from stable. 
 Nevertheless, Karen Ghaffari, a managing director at Fitch, says she thinks Best Buy will weather the storm. Its longstanding reputation for high-quality service helped it grab market share this year when Circuit City laid off many of its highest-paid -- and most experienced -- sales workers, and shuttered stores. 
 ''Best Buy is a very strong operator,'' Ms. Ghaffari says, ''and long-term they should benefit from the difficulties being experienced by the weaker competitors.'' 
 That may well be so. But consumers' reluctance to spend is making Best Buy's investors skittish. Though analysts expect revenue to grow slightly next year as the company expands overseas, profit margins will come under pressure from price-cutting, especially on televisions. ''Given the circumstances and uncertainty in what's coming here in this market, we decline to comment,'' said a press officer at Gardner Lewis Asset Management, which owned almost four million shares of Best Buy in June.
 In an interview, Best Buy's president, Brian Dunn, discussed the challenges the company faced. ''The depth and speed with which the economy stumbled was extraordinary,'' said Mr. Dunn, who started as a salesman at the chain 23 years ago. ''I've never seen anything like it. Our business was growing really nicely and then, all of a sudden, boom!''
 BEST BUY'S winter holiday shopping season is crucial, as it is for every retailer. A good Christmas can make the difference between a mediocre year and a fantastic one. Ten percent of a retailer's sales can come on Black Friday alone, and typically, almost 60 percent of Best Buy's profit comes from fourth-quarter sales. 
 Now that it's clear that fourth-quarter sales and profits will be down substantially from last year, the chain is scrambling to cut costs. There will be fewer national TV commercials and more targeted e-mail crowing about low prices. 
 Best Buy stores are stocked with thousands of boxes of the hit video games Rock Band 2, Guitar Hero and Wii Fit, along with myriad camcorders, digital cameras, flat-screen TVs and GPS devices. Nevertheless, to make sure that the company isn't stuck with mountains of unsold merchandise after Christmas, Best Buy is cutting inventory levels to match reduced demand, Mr. Dunn says. But the company will not say by how much. 
 ''Suppliers are being flexible,'' Mr. Dunn says. ''Apple, HP, Samsung and Sony have answered the bell nicely and worked with us on inventory levels.''
 To accommodate shoppers, Best Buy is offering more lenient financing. Customers who charge at least $499 worth of merchandise on a store credit card don't have to pay interest for 18 months. ''We don't push it,'' Mr. Dunn says, ''but customers are grabbing the 18-month financing options.'' Last year, shoppers had to spend at least $499 on one item to receive such financing. ''Now you can put whatever you want into your cart to get it up to $499,'' he says. 
 That strategy worked for Nadia Lora and her husband, Carlos, both 21. The couple work at Nunzio's Grill, a restaurant in Vauxhall, N.J., where she is the manager and he is a cook. They were shopping at a Best Buy near the restaurant on the Friday after Thanksgiving, and they bought a JVC camcorder and a Garmin Nuvi GPS system, purposely spending enough to hit the $499 financing threshold. Ms. Lora said the Best Buy incentives allowed her to justify her purchases: ''I like that they don't charge interest for stuff for months.'' 
 IN this stressed-out holiday season, Best Buy is trying to be hip and friendly. The chain is the only retailer to have exclusive rights to sell the new Guns N' Roses album, ''Chinese Democracy,'' in its stores and has hired Magic Johnson to open stores in urban areas. Free limousine rides and mini-camcorders were offered to 25 customers in New York, Los Angeles, Boston, Miami and other major markets who wrote compelling, 250-word essays about why shopping at Best Buy on the day after Thanksgiving was a meaningful ritual for their families.
 Claudia Di Folco, 35, an actress and former television news reporter, was shopping at Best Buy two days before Thanksgiving. She bought a $299 Slingbox, which transfers whatever is playing on your home television onto a laptop, cellphone or PC, so her husband could watch the New York Jets game during a trip to Rome. Ms. Di Folco lives a few blocks from the Best Buy store at 86th Street and Lexington Avenue on the Upper East Side and shops there often. ''They always have special sales, or at least the big yellow signs make you think they do,'' she says. 
 On the day after Thanksgiving back at 62nd and Broadway, hundreds of electronics fans lined up. ''We had a fabulous day,'' says Ms. Adoniz, 41, that store's manager, though she says she was less confident earlier in the week. ''With everything happening with the economy, we didn't know if that was going to scare customers away.''
 But when she arrived at 1:30 a.m. on Friday, 500 people were waiting. Customers had been outside since Thanksgiving morning: they sat huddled in sleeping bags; the line went around the block to Central Park West and back. Ms. Adoniz gave out coffee and sales fliers. 
 Samsung employees played trivia contests with shoppers, doling out T-shirts, tote bags and other prizes. Ms. Adoniz's fliers detailed the store's so-called doorbuster sales -- 50-inch plasma televisions for $799, laptops starting at $329, GPS devices for $99, digital cameras for $50. Prices have inched up since then, but, Ms. Adoniz says, ''there is still a lot of holiday traffic and a lot more online ordering.'' Laptops are particularly popular.
 Among televisions, the best seller at her store was the 42-inch Dynex, the chain's private label; it sold for $499. Margins on private-label items are much higher than margins on name-brand electronics, so Best Buy is pushing Dynex as well as its Insignia line of digital cameras, televisions and GPS devices. 
 ''The TVs were flying out the door; they were huge,'' Ms. Adoniz says.
 The company hasn't released official figures for Black Friday, but analysts say sales were better than expected. In an effort to keep customers buying, Best Buy aggressively promoted low prices on its Web site every day last week.
 In a down economy, the biggest challenge for Best Buy may be from discounters that are chasing its core base of gadget-happy consumers.
 ''Wal-Mart, Costco and Target have expanded their assortments,'' says Steven L. Martin, who manages Slater Capital Management, a retail hedge fund. ''Five years ago if you said Wal-Mart would sell plasma TVs, no one would have believed you.'' 
 Best Buy also faces stiff competition from retailers like Amazon that do business exclusively online. The company is fighting back by allowing shoppers to make purchases online and then pick them up at Best Buy stores, which eliminates shipping costs. ''Out of this storm comes new operating models,'' Mr. Dunn says. ''The ecosystem is going to change. We see storefronts closing.''
 For now, though, Best Buy has a potent weapon in its battle with the discounters and online sellers: its staff. Members of Best Buy's sales staff, a k a ''Blue Shirts,'' go through a 20-hour training program, then spend two weeks shadowing an experienced sales staff member around the floor. Historically, the Best Buy training program has been so strong, some people in the industry say, that competitors often waited for Best Buy to let staff go after Christmas, and then snap them up.
 Ms. Di Folco, the actress, says: ''Most of the time, I find really informed people who can actually answer my questions. It's like they seem to be electronic junkies versus kids wasting time at a part-time job they don't enjoy.''
 Its sales force may give Best Buy a competitive advantage even in a holiday season when many customers are interested in rock-bottom prices. 
 ''The importance of the salesperson is directly related to the price of the product being sold,'' says Chris Denove, vice president at J. D. Power & Associates, the consumer research firm. ''If you're talking about toothpaste or pencils, the salesperson is immaterial, but when you're talking about high-end electronics such as flat screen TVs, the salesperson can be critical.''
 Target, meanwhile, is going after the technical support business -- a big profit center for Best Buy -- and has hired Zip Express, a company started by Chris Mauzy, a former Best Buy employee, to challenge the ''Geek Squad'' for which Best Buy is known. For a fee, members of the Geek Squad will install your purchase and provide technical support, even on products not bought at Best Buy. It's a huge profit center for the company. 
 Mr. Mauzy, who left Best Buy to start Zip Express in October 2007, is introducing an electronics-installation service for 200 Target stores.
 To further protect itself against inroads from the discounters, Best Buy is trying to make shopping more appealing to women. Its Omega Wolves program, a focus group made up of 3,500 working women in the United States and London, has a page on Facebook; Omegas socialize and give the chain feedback. Thanks to the Omegas, Ms. Adoniz's store has what she calls ''nicer fixtures,'' like wood-trimmed displays and lighter backdrops.
 Ms. Adoniz's store also aims to stock accessories with women in mind: fake leopard skin and red crocodile cases for BlackBerrys and other gadgets from Liz Claiborne, Betsey Johnson, Dooney & Bourke, Tumi and Steve Madden. Crystal Stroupe, a personal shopper and an aspiring opera singer, spends much of her time at Best Buy keeping the accessories table neat and pretty.
 Ms. Adoniz says the accessories table brings a lot of astonished looks, ''but we know the female shopper was an underserved market.'' Best Buy says women are now spending more money at its stores than men, which has led Ms. Adoniz and managers of other stores to expand accessories aimed at women. Many Best Buy stores now carry items like blow-dryers, curling irons and hair straighteners, as well as pink cameras and phones. ''We have a whole personal care section and it does very well,'' Ms. Adoniz says.
 The effort to appeal to women may ultimately help Best Buy distinguish itself from traditional electronics retailers, which tend to market electronics to men. 
 ''You can't assume that every expensive TV is going to be bought by a male,'' says Matthew J. Fassler, a retail analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''Women need to be served as intently as men.''
 THAT said, Best Buy's business is hard-core electronics, not blow-dryers; the company is betting that if a family buys just one gift this December, it will involve electronic entertainment. ''When the customer gets into difficulty, they tend to cocoon,'' Mr. Dunn says. ''After 9/11, they invested in their homes and loved ones and experiences.'' 
 Mr. Dunn says he usually wins his office pool for predicting December results; this year, he's betting that cocooning drives sales, but he acknowledges that ''it's too soon to tell'' how the holiday season will play out. 
 ''As the economy becomes tougher, people think more carefully about whether they really need to buy an item,'' he says. ''The threshold for a considered purchase has moved down. Last year, it might have been $500. This year, it might be $300, $200 or even $100 for some families.'' 
 Enough for an iPod case and a Slingbox cable, but not much more. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Best Buy is emptying its bag of tricks to attract customers for the holiday shopping season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
Amy Adoniz, at the center of the table, with her employees in the break room of the Best Buy store she manages in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Teenagers played the video game Rock Band 2 at the Best Buy store at 62nd Street and Broadway. Best Buy has been cutting inventory levels to avoid a post-holiday glut of merchandise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PRIVATE LABELS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SALES FORCE (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); DOGS (73%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (73%); VENDING MACHINES (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (63%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%)

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); TOSHIBA CORP (52%); TSIC INC (50%); COMPUSA INC (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (52%); TOS (LSE) (52%); 6502 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



235 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: In the Shadow of the Arch, A Fight Rages Over Land Use

BYLINE: By MALCOLM GAY

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
For decades, the vaulting curve of stainless steel known as the Gateway Arch has risen above the Mississippi River here as a monument to the country's westward expansion. It is the city's most visited tourist site and its most treasured landmark.
 The 91-acre park around the arch, however, is another matter. 
 Between the city's riverfront and its downtown, parts of the park, formally known as the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial, include undulating ponds and gently curving walkways that mirror the curvature of Eero Saarinen's arch. 
 But a concrete belt of sunken highway and busy streets also traverses the grounds. The park does not comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act, amenities are rare and on most days few people tour anything but the arch itself. 
 Long maligned as an obstacle that severs the city from its riverfront, the grounds around the arch are at the center of a dispute between a group of prominent residents who want to develop parts of the park, including construction of a cultural attraction, most likely a museum, and the National Park Service, which administers the site and is cool to some of the group's proposals.
 ''We've got two great assets, the Mississippi River and the arch, and we're not really utilizing either of them,'' said a former senator, John C. Danforth, who leads the group in calling for an international design competition to reinvigorate the park and better integrate it into the environment. ''What we have proposed is a world-class cultural attraction that is on the arch grounds.''
 Mr. Danforth has pledged $50 million for the project through his family's charity, the Danforth Foundation, which at the request of the city's mayor, Francis G. Slay, spent two years and $2 million studying the park's problems. He has also promised to help raise $100 million more. 
 Mr. Danforth's attitude rankles officials of the National Park Service, who maintain that any development must respect the memorial's National Historic Landmark status. While the officials have expressed interest in working with Mr. Danforth, they have resisted his call for a prominently placed museum.
 ''We all believe that we need to provide better connections between the park and the city,'' the chief of planning and compliance for the Park Service's Midwest Region, Sandra Washington, said. ''But the vision we've gotten from the Danforth Foundation is that it needs to be an above-ground museum in a particular location. 
 ''We have some concerns about the degree to which the structure would draw attention to itself and away from the Gateway Arch.''
 Park Service officials plan to make public four plans in January, among them a ''preferred'' one that includes a design competition to ''revitalize the memorial grounds,'' Ms. Washington said. But that plan, which states that the grounds may be changed but that their ''essential character-defining elements'' must be kept, may stop short of Mr. Danforth's vision, she said. 
 City leaders fear that any Park Service plan will entail a lengthy bureaucratic process and that it is unclear whether the agency will authorize the scale of development they see as necessary to revitalize the memorial grounds. 
 ''What is the government asking us to do?'' Mr. Danforth asked in a telephone interview. ''Is it asking us to write a series of checks for tens of millions of dollars that they can spend on kiosks and plaques? Or is it asking us to do something that is world-class?''
 ''Nobody,'' he said, ''is going to be writing checks to Uncle Sam and say just do whatever you darn well want.''
 Last month, Mr. Danforth sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne stating that his foundation's assets had been diminished by the faltering economy and that he may not be able to fulfill the $50 million pledge. In an effort to assist Mr. Danforth, three prominent allies have formed the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Trust, which was named in a bill introduced in October by Representative William Lacy Clay, Democrat of Missouri. 
 The bill seeks to downgrade the status of the grounds, which would be on the National Register of Historic Places. The arch would retain National Historic Landmark status. 
 The legislation would authorize the secretary of the interior to allow the private trust to ''facilitate the planning, construction and operation of a cultural facility'' on the memorial grounds. 
 ''The bill allows for a lease arrangement that would allow the Park Service to take the Danforth Foundation's money,'' Mr. Clay said. ''The Park Service will have to sign off on the terms and conditions of that relationship -- those are my parameters.'' 
 He cautioned, though, that the current bill could change ''drastically.'' But Mr. Clay's reassurances have not quelled the fears of many in the preservation world, who object to the prospect of Congress's clearing the way for a private trust to develop federally protected land. 
 ''The Park Service can enter into private partnerships to benefit a National Park site. They don't need an act of Congress,'' the Midwest regional director of the National Parks Conservation Association, Lynn McClure, said. ''There are proper, nonlegislative avenues to do that. This would set up a precedent where any of our historic landmarks could be changed by acts of Congress.''
 Other opponents note that the grounds, designed by the landscape architect Dan Kiley, belong not just to the people of St. Louis but to all Americans. The relationship between the arch and the grounds, about two-thirds of which have landmark status, is of such historical significance that any development should leave the Kiley design largely intact. 
 ''This is where it all begins,'' said Charles Birnbaum, president of the Cultural Landscape Foundation, a nonprofit group in Washington. 
 ''Here are two of the most important place makers of the 20th century, and this is one of their most important commissions,'' he said of Kiley and Saarinen. ''You start putting in buildings, and it changes the geometry significantly.''
 Valid though the preservationists' concerns may be, say the St. Louisans who want to develop the park, they must be balanced against the city's need for cultural and economic growth. 
 ''The arch grounds is probably the most important piece of real estate in St. Louis,'' said the Missouri Historical Society's president, Robert Archibald, a founding member of the new trust. ''To wall it off and call it sacrosanct and not acknowledge that it is both a national monument and an urban park does St. Louis a great disservice.'' 
 Mr. Danforth said he wanted to move forward with a plan acceptable to all parties but his patience and money were not infinite. 
 ''If there's a lot of opposition from the Park Service, then it's not going to happen,'' he said. ''The Park Service is in total control on this. If they don't want to do anything worth doing, fine, we've got other fish to fry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Everyone seems to love the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, but the park around it is less popular. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES A. FINLEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (69%); CHARITIES (68%); MAYORS (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



236 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: First, Do the Tough Stuff

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. BOAL. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I'VE always had an entrepreneurial bug. In high school, I started a business writing software for law firms. I also did an extra-credit project to program the general ledger system for the high school's extracurricular program. I wrote the code on a PDP-11 that used two giant floppy disks as storage.
 One of my memories from that time has shaped me. My parents made me save the entire price of my first car, including insurance and gasoline for a year, before I could buy it. I steamed shirts at a dry cleaner in the summer and worked some other awful jobs until I had enough to buy a used Toyota Celica. My father drove me to the car dealer. When I went to pay for the car, he took out his checkbook and paid half. The lesson was about doing all the work up front and enjoying the reward later. It resonates in everything I do now. 
 After I graduated from the State University of New York at Albany, I worked for Drexel Burnham in the quantitative research department. We wanted to rebuild the internal systems. The information systems department wanted a fortune and the company wouldn't let us use an outside company, so I taught myself Fortran and rewrote the systems. 
 I read an article about a Macintosh-based trading system developed by Aria International, and I wanted to see what it could do for Drexel Burnham. When I called Joe Schoendorf at Aria and asked for a demonstration, he probably thought I was a chieftain of industry. Then I went up to the executive floor, walked into a huge office and asked a Drexel executive I'd never met to come along with me to see it. I was 23 or 24. Drexel did not buy one of the systems, but Joe, who is now a member of the World Economic Forum, became one of my mentors.
 When Drexel went out of business, the guys I worked with spun off our department as a separate business and later sold it. After that I ran a financial market data company in San Francisco followed by an options trading analytics company in Chicago. I wanted to do something different, and Joe and a few other mentors suggested that I learn how a big company operates. 
 I took a job as vice president and head of global emerging markets derivative technology for JPMorgan. It was hard. I was used to a small-company environment where I could make changes on a moment's notice. But I learned how big companies buy services from small companies, which proved invaluable.
 I got the idea for my current company 10 years ago during a visit to my in-laws in Wisconsin. I was watching TV one Sunday morning when my father-in-law walked into the kitchen in slippers, short pajamas and a robe. He walked past me to the garage, got into his car and drove down the long driveway to get the paper. When he returned, he separated the sports section and the coupons from the rest of the paper. I said, ''You're kidding.'' He got angry and started explaining which ones were double coupons. Then he brought out an old shoebox and showed me his filing system. 
 I did some research and learned that there were two companies providing these coupons, and that little had changed in 25 years except for the addition of a barcode. I figured that if I could move to the Internet 20 percent of the hundreds of billions of coupons being distributed, I could make money. That would be about $400 million in revenue. 
 Our 9-month-old daughter was crawling around the floor of our home office when we started. My wife, Michele, became the marketing vice president, and Mike Walsh became the technology expert. We're printing coupons that save people $500 million a year. 
 Coupons will always be here, but they'll change form. The rate of innovation is speeding up, and staying on course is getting harder. It's what keeps me up at night. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven R. Boal 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); EMERGING MARKETS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



237 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: Faithful to His Memory, and His Mother

BYLINE: By DIANE NOTTLE. 
Diane Nottle, formerly an editor on the Culture news staff of The Times, is a writer and teacher in Manhattan.

 BODY:
WHEN I walked into the room in the hospital's emergency unit, I saw Mary's mink coat thrown over the back of a chair. There was no sign of John -- her son, my lover -- who had arrived by ambulance. For a minute I was left alone to contemplate the meaning of the empty bed, and whether Mary shouldn't be more careful with her mink. Then someone came in, told me John had been moved to intensive care and offered to take me there. 
 Earlier, after John collapsed in his mother's house from a cerebral hemorrhage, Mary had instinctively grabbed the mink from the hall closet before following the ambulance in her car. It was a coat she wore mainly for social occasions. Why had she brought it to the hospital?
 ''He had no health insurance,'' she explained later. ''I didn't want them to think we were paupers.'' 
 Over the next five days, through John's coma and death, as the individual relationships Mary and I had with him ended, a new one, between us, began. 
 I was living in Boston at the time. John was 37. I was just turning 31. We had been together for not quite a year and a half, having met in adjoining theater seats. Many years later I would see a Broadway production of David Hare's play ''Amy's View,'' in which the lead character is a widow who lives with her daughter and mother-in-law. At one point she says: ''If, when I'd met Bernard, they'd said to me, you'll live 10 years longer with Bernard's mother than you will with Bernard himself ... I'm not sure I'd have jumped in so eagerly. But you never know how things are going to turn out.''
 When I first heard Judi Dench speak those lines, my heart nearly jumped out of my chest -- and then I roared. By then I had been with John's mother 13 years longer than I had been with him.
 Mary was 72 when we met. John's way of handling potentially uncomfortable situations was to give you no time to think about them, so when he called late one morning, a month or so after we'd met, and announced he was taking me to lunch with his mother, there was no getting out of it. 
 He left me in the car while he went in to fetch her, and she emerged from the house, a stately matron with thick, professionally dressed curls of pure white, wearing her mink -- it being a gray November day. There was no introduction; we simply looked at each other, said a wary ''Hello'' and were on our way.
 It has been said that you can tell how a man will treat the women in his life by the way he treats his mother, and in this case I had cause for high hopes. John was not a mama's boy in any unhealthy sense, but -- as much as she sometimes exasperated him -- he loved his mother deeply and made her a part, with honor, of both his personal life and his professional life as a classical music impresario. When one day he looked at me and said, ''You know, I'm not the only one here'' (with whom I'd have to pass muster), I knew what he meant. Wherever our romance might take us, Mary would be part of the package.
 In the year after that first lunch, John and I spent a good deal of time at her house overlooking Massachusetts Bay, with its screened-in porch ideal for whiling away hours on a summer afternoon. 
 ''Why don't you keep my mother company?'' John said as he went off to putter around the house. 
 I found the prospect intimidating. A black-and-white portrait on the Steinway, taken when Mary was perhaps 40, showed much the same face: a dignified, even formidable upper-middle-class woman, the kind for whom clubs and community service constituted a life's work. She would grill me on current events and usually knew more than I, a journalist, did. This was not, I realized, someone to be trifled with. I did not use her first name for a very long time. 
 I'm not sure she even liked me until John collapsed and so did our worlds. But I was one of the two or three people she phoned before grabbing the mink, and because she had no other family who could arrive before the next day, I was the one who sat with her a few hours later as the neurologist told us that John had only a 1 to 2 percent chance of survival, never mind recovery. 
 That night I slept at her house, in the bed that smelled of him, and early the next morning she sat by my side, giving me the update on his overnight progress -- which was none. I remained with her through the coma and the do-not-resuscitate order and the 3 a.m. phone call notifying us of his death. 
 When her family began to arrive for the funeral, I offered to go back to my apartment, but she was firm: ''I want you here.'' When I finally did leave, after 10 nights, it was like emerging from a cave. The world outside looked unreal, too bright, and all I could do was blink.
 The funeral over, the family dispersed. Mary was left alone in her house, as I was in my apartment. It was an aloneness neither of us could bear. In the beginning I slept at her house every other night, then once a week, and later, as life returned to some new sort of normal, once every couple of weeks. 
 We would speak of him; one of us would say something and begin to cry, and the other would offer comfort. I indulged in magical thinking: He isn't dead. This has all been staged. It's a test for me. And someday -- a month from now, or a year -- he will come down the stairs, take me in his arms and tell me I passed. 
 I already knew a little about Mary: that she had grown up in boardinghouses, the only child of a working mother widowed when her husband died of an ulcer. (An ulcer! But that was 1917.) Gradually, though, the stories poured out: of her first two marriages to men she found inadequate; of having to leave her first son, barely past infancy, in foster care so she could earn their living; of her third marriage, for security rather than love, and the one great happiness it produced, the son we both adored. 
 Another side of Mary came out, too: the social creature who favored martinis and Scotch on the rocks and had had brushes with celebrities. Over the years, we came to talk more of these things than of John, though he was no less on our minds. After a time, his name barely came up in my annual phone call on the anniversary of his death, even though we both knew why I was calling that day. I began to think that if he did, magically, come down that staircase and try to steal the show, as he always had in life, one of us would say, ''We're talking,'' and continue our conversation.
 By then I was living in New York, and Mary's house had become my base in Boston; she acted as a message center for my friends and me, and her home was a gathering place of drinks and stories, until she decided in her late 80s that she could no longer keep up the house and moved into assisted living. Many of her friends and neighbors had died. Mary made new friends in assisted living; they, too, died. 
 A few years ago, in the soft gray light of a winter afternoon, Mary talked in the way someone does who knows her time is waning. She told me she had never loved any of her husbands but had always loved John, and believed in him. She asked if I had ever found anyone else, and of course I said no. 
 The truth is, I had tried, and failed, in three later relationships. But had I brought anyone home to meet Mary? No -- and there was her answer. Perhaps all along I had wanted nothing more than to remain faithful to John, and this was my way of doing so: by keeping his mother company.
 ''I forgot to tell you,'' she said in our next call. I could almost hear a drum roll before she announced, ''I've had my last martini.'' She had recently become sick after drinking one, maybe two. And that was that.
 At her 90th-birthday luncheon, she introduced me by saying, ''And this is my daughter.'' I was too stunned to react outwardly but inwardly rejoiced. And in some ways, I was a better daughter to her than I was to my own mother. But then, we had never hurt each other the way mothers and daughters inevitably do.
 I LAST saw her in June, a few weeks before she turned 96 and I was to leave for three months in Europe. She had been in the hospital as her emphysema worsened, and needed oxygen and nursing 24 hours a day. I'd had visions of wheeling her onto the porch to enjoy some sun and fresh air. But it wasn't one of her better days; she couldn't get out of bed, and I spent much of the afternoon reading by her side while she slept.
 The last time we spoke was by phone the day I returned from Europe. ''Well, well, well!'' she greeted me, as always. She was starting to have difficulty forming words, but her mind was nearly as sharp as ever; she asked about my travels and the economy. I told her I would visit in the next few weeks, as soon as my commitments allowed. 
 I had expected to be there the Thursday after Election Day, but early that Tuesday morning, she died in her sleep. I think of what I would have most wanted to say to her on one last visit: ''If you see John, tell him I love him.''
 In the end, John and I were together for a mere 16 months while his mother and I went on to share our lives for 23 years. You never know how things are going to turn out.
 I don't know what I'll be feeling in January when, for the first time, there will be no one at the other end of the phone on the anniversary of John's death. Before that, though, there will be a memorial for Mary. I don't know whatever happened to the mink, but I hear martinis will be served.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); THEATER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



238 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; TOWN GREEN NEW HAVEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Club's Request Puts Neighbors at Odds

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
 A DOMINOES club has opened its doors on the outskirts of Wooster Square, a development that raised few eyebrows in a neighborhood that has worked hard to shake off its past as a pocket of urban blight. But when the club members applied for a liquor license last month and a special parking permit that would make it easier to host tournaments, many residents feared that some of the neighborhood's progress would be reversed.
 Members of the Caimito Social Club, which takes its name from the Puerto Rican hometown of one of its founders, said that most of the participants in the dominoes tournaments hosted here were older men who were only interested in a little socializing and friendly competition. Adding some beer, liquor and a few cars to the mix, they said, would hardly imperil the neighborhood. 
 Wooster Square, once mainly an enclave of Italian immigrants, went into decline in the mid-1900s, to the point where historians described it as a slum. An urban renewal program in the 1960s largely rehabilitated it, and the area now houses Yale professors and other professionals, as well as students and retirees. In recent years, though, crime from the nearby neighborhoods has begun to encroach, and residents say they are leery of any business that, they believe, could attract a rowdy night life.
 ''It's a fragile balance,'' said Jeffrey Kerekes, a psychotherapist who helped lead the neighborhood's effort to block the club from obtaining the city permits. ''There's been some encouraging trends here, and we want to see that continue.''
 The club's establishment is part of a longer story that began three years ago, with the demise of a similar club several blocks away in this racially mixed area of the city. The Coamo Social Club, as it was known, housed a local dominoes team and served as a gathering place for many in the Spanish-speaking community here. Members gathered at the Coamo for nearly 15 years until the building was sold and the club lost its lease.
 The club's domino team, which competes throughout the Northeast, lived in exile for three years, until two former members, Carlos DeJesus and Roberto Perez, found a 7,000-square-foot haven in the basement of a Grand Street office building. The monthly rent was $900.
 Mr. DeJesus and Mr. Perez fixed up the space that would become Caimito with bathrooms and added a bar, pool table and a shallow stage for live music. Why such amenities for a club of 25 dominoes players? The Coamo Club, it turns out, paid the domino team's travel expenses to faraway tournaments by hosting tournaments of its own, as well as dances, weddings and other gatherings with as many as 400 attendees that bring in rental fees and revenue from the sale of liquor.
 Caimito's members hoped to follow a similar fund-raising approach for its team, but after a visit from neighborhood representatives last month, the club's leaders understood that such gatherings might not sit well with the Yalies, retirees and others living nearby. The club promised to host no live music or events, aside from tournaments that might attract as many as 50 people to the facility.
 To help recoup the costs of operating the club, Mr. Perez sought a nonprofit liquor license from the city, along with a permit to use the property's parking lot jointly with other tenants and a permit to operate a members-only social club. He expected little resistance when arguing his case to the Zoning Board of Appeals early last month.
 He was wrong. Music would spill from the club, neighbors warned. Events would exacerbate traffic and parking problems. Members who took advantage of cheap alcohol at the club might gather near the entrance, contributing more noise.
 Mr. Perez, who was joined at the meeting by Frank Alvarado, of New Haven's Spanish American Merchants Association, argued that none of these things were true. 
 ''You can't hear anything when the doors are closed,'' Mr. Perez said, following the meeting. ''And the doors are always closed.''
 Mr. Perez said he had gained permission from nearby businesses to use their lots in the evenings for parking, and club events would add little traffic to Grand Avenue because the events would happen during nonbusiness hours. 
 Targeting the neighbors' deepest concerns, Mr. Perez said the club does not extend membership to those with criminal histories, and members who are involved in alcohol-related incidents will lose club privileges. ''Anyone causes any trouble, they're out,'' he said.
 The Zoning Board gave no hint as to how it might decide, and board members did not respond to calls seeking comment. But later last month, the City Plan Commission recommended that the Zoning Board of Appeals deny Mr. Perez's application for joint parking permission, dimming his chances.
 Mr. Perez said he planned to gather wider support for the public hearing, but Karyn Gilvarg, executive director of the City Plan Department, said a second public hearing would be ''extremely unusual.'' 
 As the commission weighed its decision, the club continued to operate in the evenings on weekends and Thursdays, with Mr. Perez, 64, at the helm. A retired construction worker with 24 grandchildren and a gold rooster medallion hanging from a necklace, Mr. Perez is well known in Puerto Rico, he said, for raising and fighting champion roosters there.
 A measure of celebrity seems to remain. Standing near the entrance of the club on a recent evening, Mr. Perez was greeted warmly by nearly every one of the roughly 20 men who came in from the street.
 Nearby, Luis Santana, the genial captain of the dominoes club, taped the competition schedule onto the wall as Latin pop blared from the jukebox. Mr. DeJesus leaned a massive forearm on the bar and chatted with friends. In the back room, graying dominoes players studied the bones and tilted bottles of Corona.
 Outside, the parking lot brimmed with double-parked cars. Through the alleys separating the lot from St. John Street's tree-lined walkways, Caimito's jukebox was inaudible. Residents rushed from their cars to their doorways, their breath visible, eyes down.
 A block away, Wooster Square's walkways were empty. Gleaming white lamps stood in near-perfect alignment, like rows of dominoes waiting for a push that might never come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GAME TIME: Roberto Perez, a leader of the Caimito Social Club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); HISTORY (77%); POOL & BILLIARDS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) PUERTO RICO (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



239 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: His Back Pages

BYLINE: Reviewed by CHARLES McGRATH. 
Charles McGrath, formerly the editor of the Book Review, is a writer at large for The Times.

 BODY:
HOLLYWOOD FOTO-RHETORIC
 The Lost Manuscript
 Text by Bob Dylan
 Photographs by Barry Feinstein. 141 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30
 The Bob Dylan archives amount to what the British call a lumber room -- a cavernous storage space so full of odds and ends that even Dylan himself doesn't know what's in there. Just when you think the place has been emptied out, something new -- a bootleg tape, some video footage, a collection of sketches and doodles -- pops to light. The newest unboxing, which Dylan in characteristic fashion had forgotten all about, is a series of 23 poems he wrote in the early 1960s to accompany a collection of Hollywood photographs by Barry Feinstein. Either half of this collaboration would be worth having, but combined, under the quizzical title ''Hollywood Foto-Rhetoric,'' they add up to one of the oddest coffee-table books to come along in a while. 
 That ''f'' in ''foto-rhetoric'' leads you to anticipate a volume in tabloidy, Hollywood Confidential style, and there are a couple of glimpses of weird Kenneth Anger-like Hollywood. But most of the photographs are more moody, even arty, than they are leering or sensational. Feinstein went on to become the court photographer of rock 'n' roll royalty, but in the early '60s he was working as a studio flunky for the mogul Harry Cohn, and he took these pictures backstage on movie sets or driving around town after hours. They're suffused with a kind of antiglamour that was probably meant to be tough and unflinching at the time but now seems almost tender. There are pictures of discarded props, spoiled film, headless mannequins, out-of-work actors and actresses. Jerry Mathers turns up in a group photo with his real-life relatives, who look even more Cleaverish than his television family. Among the other actors portrayed are a gaunt and weary Judy Garland; Bette Davis, troweled with makeup, dragging on a cigarette between takes; and Jayne Mansfield, blowzy and overweight, not many years before she died. The dust jacket, in case you missed the message, shows the crumbling ''Hollywood'' sign in the Los Angeles Hills photographed from behind. Feinstein's Hollywood is a land of make-believe, and now, in the bleached-out sunlight, its best days are clearly past. 
 What Dylan brings to this vision is a kind of antic surrealism, at times reminiscent of the liner notes he wrote for ''Highway 61 Revisited.'' In an introductory Q. and A., he is reluctant to call the text poetry. ''If they are poems, or if they are not poems . . . does it really matter?'' he says. ''And who would it matter to?'' But they certainly look and read like poems, in tense, narrow lines, of just one or two beats sometimes, that stack on the page, Billy Collins says in the introduction, like ''a teetering column of poker chips.'' The style seems learned partly from the Beats, terse and jangly, with no capitalization and lots of dropped letters: 
 off an runnin runner up bound t go bust the top just t find out what i'm missin.
 But the voice is reliably Dylanesque: 
 from the outside lookin in every finger wiggles the doorway wears long pants an slouches no rejection all's fair in love and selection.
 Occasionally a poem will explicitly comment on the accompanying photograph. The one next to a picture of a heartbroken Marlene Dietrich at Gary Cooper's funeral, for example, reads: 
 t dare not ask your sculpturer's name with glance back hooked, time's hinges halt as curiosity's doom inks beauty's claim that sad-eyed he shall turn t salt.
 More often the poems take off on the theme of a photo or enact a scenario (a casting-office interview, say) suggested by it. And sometimes the relation of text to picture is pretty oblique. Without Luc Sante's explanatory note in the foreword, you would probably never guess that the last poem, illustrating several pictures of Academy Award-winning actors holding their Oscars, was inspired by the time Dylan, receiving an award from the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee, compared himself to Lee Harvey Oswald. The poem next to a photo of a dancing Judy Garland imagines, for some reason, a fight between a man and the husband of a woman he has been ogling. Go figure. 
 Most of these poems, it must be said, read like the work of just a few moments. They lack the complexity, the emotional power of some of the great Dylan song lyrics, which, as Christopher Ricks demonstrated in ''Dylan's Visions of Sin,'' really can stand comparison to Marlowe, Keats and Tennyson. They're mostly riffs, the poetic equivalent of scale playing. On the other hand, you can read these little verses without humming the tune in your head, and they allow you to appreciate Dylan's verbal dexterity -- his gift for rhyme and free association -- in isolation, as it were. This is the kind of quickness and improvisatory brilliance that allowed those great lyrics to happen. 
 Nor is the text of ''Hollywood Foto-Rhetoric'' entirely rhetorical. The best poems add up to a wary meditation on fame and celebrity, on the disguises we all put on -- themes to which he would later return. When Dylan wrote these poems he could not have guessed that he would become one of the most photographed musicians ever, and yet his engagement with Feinstein's comfortless vision of Hollywood may explain why in photographs Dylan himself so seldom smiles, so often looks wary, so rarely looks unposed. He's like those Plains Indians who feared that the camera could steal your soul. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Rolls-Royce at the unemployment office: ''The realization/that there was/no place t go/but up.'' (pg.BR48)
 Brigitte Bardot at the Hollywood Wax Museum. (pg.BR49) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARRY FEINSTEIN/FROM ''HOLLYWOOD FOTO-RHETORIC'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POETRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); FILM (79%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



240 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Motley Davids, Institutional Goliaths

BYLINE: By JOHN ANDERSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 THIEVES, con men and sociopaths are hardly unknown to prime-time TV shows, but they're not usually the heroes. Likewise, executive producers of new shows don't typically turn on the news, see corporate piracy, government malfeasance, institutionalized rip-offs and big-dollar bailouts, and come to the conclusion ''We just lucked out.''
 But it hasn't passed notice among the cast and crew of ''Leverage'' that, in addition to the action and humor, it possesses a certain timeliness. Having its premiere Sunday on TNT, ''Leverage'' tracks a revenge-seeking crew of what its star Timothy Hutton called ''dysfunctional, troubled people'' battling military contractors, corrupt congressmen, predatory lenders and insurance companies, a k a the forces of financial evil. 
 ''We always approached it as Robin Hood against Prince John,'' said John Rogers, who with the show's co-creator Chris Downey (''The King of Queens'') and the movie producer Dean Devlin (''Independence Day'') are the executive producers of ''Leverage'' for Mr. Devlin's Electric Entertainment. 
 ''It's not like before the current economic climate that insurance companies weren't letting kids die, or pension funds weren't being raided, and people weren't losing their houses,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''It's just that now everybody is paying attention to it.''
 Amy Berg, a former writer and story editor for ''The 4400'' and ''Threshold'' and the first writer hired for ''Leverage,'' said: ''I think this show is the pinnacle of escapism in many respects. Not only is it fun and action-y and a caper show, but also because the bad guys we take down are rich corporate jerks who are treading on the little guy. In this climate, what better idea?'' 
 ''Leverage'' provides a return to television for the Oscar-winning Mr. Hutton, whose experience on the much-praised ''Kidnapped'' might have turned anyone off to working in television. 
 He was filming the third episode of ''Kidnapped'' ''when we got word it was canceled,'' he said during an interview last month at the Four Seasons Hotel in Beverly Hills. ''We had 10 more to film. And it wasn't going to be on the air. It was sort of like being told: 'O.K., you're in a play, we all think it's wonderful, but there's a problem. You have to do the play for another six months exactly the way you've been doing it. And we can't let any people into the theater.' ''
 He laughed, but he understandably ''wasn't looking to get into a series.'' Yet the prospect of working with Mr. Devlin, Mr. Downey and Mr. Rogers (''Cosby'') and their take on the story, got him to open the script. ''Then it was all over.''
 Hutton's character, Nathan Ford, is an embittered ex-insurance investigator who recovered Monets and the like for his former employer, but whose son died after being denied experimental treatment by that same company. In the pilot he is brought together with four high-tech felons who will help him wage his war against well-off antagonists: the chameleonic Sophie Devereaux (Gina Bellman of the British ''Coupling''); the ''retrieval specialist'' and muscle, Eliot Spencer (Christian Kane, ''Just Married''); the self-confessed nerd and tech wizard Alec Hardison (Aldis Hodge); and Parker (Beth Riesgraf), the money-mad, fearless and perhaps slightly deranged superthief. (Parker is seen in a flashback as a child, blowing up her foster parents' house.)
 ''Everyone else was playing the hot, sexy girl,'' Mr. Devlin said of the actresses who auditioned for him and Michael Wright, senior vice president for content creation for TNT, TCM and TBS. ''Beth came in with this semi-Asperger's girl that was so interesting. She just blew us away. When she left, Michael turned to me and said, 'Is she crazy?' ''
 Some might say the same of Mr. Devlin, whose company is bankrolling the production of ''Leverage.'' It was Mr. Wright who approached him about working for TNT, which led to Mr. Devlin's making the network's two Indiana Jones-inspired ''Librarian'' features. (A third, ''The Librarian: Curse of the Judas Chalice,'' makes its debut before the ''Leverage'' premiere.) 
 ''Wright came to me and said, 'I'd like to do your kinds of movies on the network,' '' recalled Mr. Devlin, whose company has produced special-effects-strewn extravaganzas like ''Godzilla.'' ''And I said: 'Well, my movies are very, very expensive. And there's not a lot of upside in television movies. Why do I want to do it?' He said: 'If you do it with me, you can do it without a studio. You can be the studio.' And that sounded really interesting to me.''
 On Election Day the mood on the set of ''Leverage'' was close to giddy. Something new was beginning nationally, and on the grounds of a former estate in Pasadena, Calif., the cast and crew were about to get a break after wrapping their 13th episode. Mr. Devlin was behind the camera again (the first episode marks his directorial debut), while Mr. Hutton and company went through some scenes that, to an observer lacking any context, were positively nonsensical. Mr. Rogers, a sometime stand-up comedian and writer, finished bellowing at Mr. Kane to put on his padding for a fight scene, then explained that Mr. Devlin's personal financial investment in the show inspires his colleagues to go the extra mile for ''Leverage.'' 
 What no one seems concerned about are lawsuits. While the show's writers have eschewed the ''Law & Order'' ripped-from-the-headlines approach, Mr. Rogers said every villain is based on a real-life malefactor. ''But who wants to sue us and claim they're that guy? 'This show? About the guy who steals pension funds to enrich himself? That's plainly me.' ''
 And ''Leverage'' is plainly something Mr. Hutton can sink his teeth into. Between shooting the pilot last fall, and then waiting out the writers' strike so the preparation for the series could resume, he made four movies, including ''Lymelife'' with Alec Baldwin, and ''Serious Moonlight,'' which Cheryl Hines directed from an Adrienne Shelley script. His relationship to the others in the cast is like his character's to theirs: he's older, he's more seasoned. And Mr. Hutton clearly relishes the show's willingness to be funny. During the second episode his character affects an accent that's a dead-on impersonation of that New England codger on the old Pepperidge Farm commercials. 
 Mr. Devlin said 13 episodes were all anyone was counting on at the moment; ratings will determine if ''Leverage'' joins TNT's other original series like ''The Closer'' in its prime-time lineup. ''We only just look at the game in front of us,'' he said. ''If we never get to do a 14th, we will still have a solid thing you could come into at any time.'' Via, perhaps, DVD.
 ''When you're in the bubble,'' Mr. Hutton said of the insular experience of making ''Leverage,'' ''you just don't really know. People say it doesn't remind them of anything else, that it has something fresh about it. It's hard to not be perplexed. But you want that to be true.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, from left, Beth Riesgraf, Aldis Hodge, Timothy Hutton and Christian Kane stand up for the little guy in ''Leverage.'' Left, Mr. Hutton and Mr. Kane in the series. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK HEINILA
 RICHARD FOREMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); WRITERS (69%); INSURANCE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); PREDATORY LENDING (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: Leverage (TV Program)>; Leverage (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



241 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Boarding Up the Salesroom

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
WITH buyers scarce, some developers have begun shutting down their flashy showrooms and pulling their sales agents and advertising campaigns for the winter. They are hoping that spring, traditionally the peak selling season in Manhattan, will bring renewed confidence in the economy and abundant low-cost mortgages. 
 Stephen G. Kliegerman, the executive director of development marketing at Halstead Property, said he had suggested that developers working with Halstead on projects at least 12 months from completion suspend sales and try again next year. 
 ''This isn't the sign of collapse; it is a sign of a prudent business plan,'' he said. ''Buyers aren't feeling urgency right now, which is why we are making a wise decision to hold off. We are suspending sales for now.''
 So far two Halstead projects that were begun in the last few months are hibernating, at least for the winter. The company will shut down the salesroom for +Art, a building under construction at 540 West 28th Street near 10th Avenue, close to the path of the High Line. Out of 88 units, priced at from $520,000 to $4.16 million, only three are in contract, Mr. Kliegerman said. 
 Halstead will also halt sales at the Steelworks Lofts, an 88-unit condominium in a former steel warehouse on North Fourth Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a few blocks from the waterfront. 
 Just a few weeks ago, both projects had offered buyers a contract with a price-protection plan guaranteeing them lower prices if buyers of similar apartments received a discount. But it seems that the offer was not reassuring enough to overcome fears about the recession.
 Mr. Kliegerman said that Halstead would save the cost of paying two sales agents and an administrative assistant in the sales office, although construction at +Art will continue during the marketing hiatus. He said that Steelworks Lofts expected to continue construction as well, but that its financing still needed to be finalized.
 Other developers and brokerages are trimming costs as well. 
 Last week, the Corcoran Group disclosed that it had laid off some support staff. The company did not reveal how many employees had been let go, but said its sales agents had not been affected.
 ''We are doing everything we can in assisting impacted employees in transitioning to new employment,'' Pamela Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group, said in a statement.
 Shaun Osher, the founder and chief executive of Core Group Marketing, said that in this uncertain market, buyers had been reluctant to buy in a building that is still a gleam in a developer's eye.
 ''It is more difficult to sell off a plan,'' Mr. Osher said. 
 Earlier this year, another developer, Kenneth S. Horn, the president of Alchemy Properties, held a broker party for a new 32-unit boutique condominium called the Isis on East 77th Street. But he recently decided to postpone sales until the spring to enable buyers to see a finished product.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



242 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: December 7, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IN BRAZIL, A STRUGGLE
Where Drugs Intrude
 The area of Brazil where the Tikuna Indians live has become a magnet for drug traffickers. Some Indians are accepting cash to work as drug mules, and a growing number of young Tikunas are succumbing to drug and alcohol abuse. For the Tikunas, these traumas represent the latest threat in a fight for survival. The Brazilian police say they cannot help. PAGE 6
 BAD TO WORSE IN SOMALIA
 For the past 17 years, Somalia has been ripped apart by anarchy, violence, famine and greed. It seems as though things there can never get worse. But then they do. Now with the government on the brink and the Islamists about to seize control again, many people inside and outside Somalia are asking: Now what? ''It will be bloody,'' one analyst predicts. He added: ''The chaos will spread from the south to the north. Warlordism will be back.'' News Analysis. PAGE 6 
 REVAMPING PAKISTAN AID
 One of the new approaches to the insurgencies that threaten Afghanistan and Pakistan that the Bush administration is preparing to present to President-elect Barack Obama amounts to an acknowledgment that roughly $10 billion in aid provided to Pakistan as ''reimbursements'' for its efforts to root out militants has been wasted. PAGE 28
 NATIONAL
 WHEN JOBS DISAPPEAR,
 So Does Health Care
 About 10.3 million Americans were unemployed in November, an increase 36 percent since January of this year. Since most people are covered through the workplace, when they lose their jobs, they lose their health benefits. PAGE 30
 SEEING REAGAN BE REAGAN
 The 198 tapes and 90,000 pages from the Nixon administration that are newly available -- combined with the debut of the movie ''Frost/Nixon'' -- overshadowed it. But a just-released trove of material at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library is beginning to draw notice, too. PAGE 36
 DEBUNKING A THEORY
 It has remained one of World War II's most enduring mysteries: Who in Washington knew of a Tokyo shortwave radio news broadcast that signaled Japanese diplomats around the world that war was beginning? Lore has it the message was intercepted as early as three days before the attack on Pearl Harbor, but analysis now suggests that lore is mistaken. PAGE 36
 OBITUARIES
 ROBERT B. ZAJONC, 85
 A distinguished psychologist, he illuminated the mental processes that underpin social behavior and in so doing helped create the modern field of social psychology. PAGE 42
 NEW YORK
 A 12-STORY SKELETON
 Puts Neighbors in Limbo
 Some residents of Tulfan Terrace in the Riverdale section of the Bronx were not happy to see a condominium tower start to go up there in late 2005. But they are even less happy now that financial problems for the developers have left the neighborhood with a 12-story skeleton. PAGE 45
 REQUIEM FOR A TOUGH GUY
 Robert Bisaccia is remembered by his nephew Anthony Margotta Jr. for advice to always do the right thing, never anything shady. ''Alas, that's not the way Mr. Bisaccia is remembered by law enforcement officials in New Jersey,'' Peter Applebome writes in Our Towns. PAGE 45 
 SPORTS
 FOR GIANTS, BURRESS EXIT
 Shifts Receiver Options
 With Plaxico Burress out for the season, attention turns to other Giants receivers, including the heralded (Amani Toomer) and others less so (Domenik Hixon, Steve Smith, Sinorice Moss and Mario Manningham). Confidence is not lacking. PAGE 1
 LIVING A FOOTBALL DREAM
 Thomas Jones is a touchdown short of tying Jets records for most rushing touchdowns and total touchdowns in a season. His 13 touchdowns are tied for the A.F.C. lead, and his 1,088 rushing yards lead the conference. But his value to the Jets extends beyond the statistics. PAGE 1
 Arts & Leisure
 IN LIFE AND MOVIES, 
 Revolution Revolves
 Movies about revolution tend to spotlight the fighting and to elide the often grimier business of governing in its aftermath. Steven Soderbergh's ambitious new film, ''Che,'' starring Benicio Del Toro as Ernesto Guevara, although not an exception, does touch on some uncomfortable truths about the ambiguities of revolutionary governance. PAGE 18 
 AN ARTIST FACES CULTURE
 The Mexican artist Daniel Guzman is probably best known for his densely layered ink drawings, which mix pop culture imagery with ancient symbolism. For his current show, ''El Sol De Mexico,'' at Harris Lieberman Gallery, Mr. Guzman uses traditional building materials of Oaxaca, sensational tabloid covers and horror films. PAGE 28 
 Book Review
 FAMED LOVER OF WOMEN 
 And a Busy Scoundrel
 A reading of Casanova's life could leave some feeling as though their own was wasted. Duelist, actor, millionaire, spy, healer -- the list grows. The role of reviving the debauched is on fine display here, as one discovers a man in Casanova beyond the most famous lover to have lived. Page 44 
 PUNK DELUXE
 Few bands are as emblematic of punk's raucous music as the Clash. This self-titled autobiography's text is compiled mostly of interviews taken in 2000. All four members come across as thoughtful about an art form so on the surface and in your face, but none so much as Joe Strummer, the group's lead vocalist/rhythm guitarist/folk hero. Page 13 
 Style
 PYTHON GOES DIGITAL, 
 And This Time It's Social
 Monty Python has spent 25 years marketing their legacy. Eric Idle, who has taken responsibility for licensing decisions for the group, is helping to start pythonline.com, a social networking site with blogs, killer rabbits and other absurdities. Page 2 
 Travel
 ROYALTY IN THE ALPS, BUT THE CONCERN IS SKIING
 Few runs in the Alps can match the ones in Lech, Austria. And after the slopes, there is no lack of life to be enjoyed in a town with several generations of concurrent history and charm. A snowboard park is on the way as well. Page 10 
 EXPANDED FOOD OPTIONS
 You can lay the happy blame for expanded fare at some ski lodges this winter at the feet of the Whole Foods generation. But it's doubtful that anybody is going to be pointing angry fingers about having choices beyond limp salads and hamburgers like hockey pucks. Page 4 Magazine
 SOUL REVIVER RECREATES
 That Sweet Vinyl Sound
 Gabriel Roth has spent more than a decade on the margins of the music industry, trying to recreate the urgent, brassy sound of the obscure old R&B 45s he loves. Suddenly, people are listening. Page 38
 T
 PLAY IT AGAIN, 
 Samurai
 Every rock legend from Elvis to Led Zeppelin owes their wails and riffs to the Delta's swelter or the Windy City's back alleys. But sometimes it's a new take on something old that pops. Can a saccharine '60s tune be redone by Samurai Spinner, a Japanese punk band? Page 104
 Automobiles
 A SHEEP
 In Wolf's Clothing
 The 2009 Dodge Challenger SE, the six-cylinder little brother of the SRT8, is certainly attractive, even though it lacks the dual exhaust of the V-8, the Hemi hood badge and the prominent chrome gas cap that mimics the original Challenger. But it is merely competent on the road; America's muscle-car heritage was not built on six cylinders. Page 1 (Page 11 in Sunday Business in some copies)
 Sunday Business
 WILL BEST BUY'S TACTICS 
 Hold Up to Hard Times?
 Best Buy is looking down the gaping barrel of the hardest November in recent memory. Unemployment's up and consumer spending is down, so creativity is going to have to fill the gaps to attract customers, whether it means catering to customers' dogs with filtered water and treats or giving tired employees that case of Red Bull they've been craving. Page 1 
 INSIDE THE SKINNER BOX
 Technically a chamber designed to teach lab animals to respond to tones or colored lights, these boxes are starting to resemble the current workplace and economic environment too much, Gregory Berns writes. And when everybody is scared, every decision becomes driven by, founded on and made to escape from fear. And that can't be healthy. Page 2 
 SLICING YOUR BUDGET
 Looking to save $1,500 a year? Make your own coffee. Or resist the compulsive technology upgrade bug. Or simply turn to discount computer options, many of which remain below $500. And if a gym membership is not a vital investment, try getting up early for a run. Page 10 
 Week in Review
 GENDER IN OAXACA: 
 A Malleable Affair
 The space between acceptance and intolerance in Mexico can be as close as the distance between the campo, where gay-bashing is not uncommon, and the city, where same-sex partnerships are recognized. But in Oaxaca, there's room for a third gender: muxe, a person drawn from boyhood to live as a woman. Page 4 
 PLAYERS' WALLETS ARE SAFE
 As long as there have been salaries for sports players, there has been grousing about the size of the checks, Stefan Fatsis writes. But with everybody else taking their financial lumps, there are still big numbers being tossed about by teams like the Yankees. The message? Those salaries are here to stay, independent of financial instability. Page 5 
 Editorial
 THE EMPLOYMENT CRASH
 The headline numbers in the employment report for November were worse than dreadful -- and they did not reflect the true extent of the weak and worsening outlook for American jobs. Week in Review, Page 8
 THE DELUDER IN CHIEF
 We long ago gave up hope that President Bush would acknowledge his many mistakes. Even then we were unprepared for the epic denial that Mr. Bush displayed in his interview with ABC News's Charles Gibson. Week in Review, Page 8 
 REPLACING SENATOR CLINTON
 President-elect Barack Obama's choice of Hillary Clinton to be secretary of state leaves a gaping hole in New York's Congressional delegation. Gov. David Paterson should pick someone who can follow in the tradition of superb New York senators. Week in Review, Page 8 
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 Let's not forget that long before ''the best and the brightest'' became the accolade du jour, the phrase was intended to be ironic. Week in Review, Page 9
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Tom Brokaw wrote ''The Greatest Generation'' about the incredible sacrifices people made after World War II. What will be the title of the book about today's adults? Week in Review, Page 10 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (66%); LAYOFFS (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (61%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (57%); LIBRARIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



243 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; 2009 SKI GUIDE PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: A Price to Pay When Skis Travel With You

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
PLANNING on packing your skis or snowboard on your flight out to snow country this year? Be prepared to pay.
This is the first ski season that coach-class fliers on most airlines will have to contend with luggage fees for any bag they check on domestic flights. Earlier this year, airlines including American, Continental, Frontier, Northwest, United and US Airways began charging coach passengers $15 to check the first bag one way on top of $25 for a second bag when flying within the United States. Last month, Delta, which had been a holdout among major airlines in charging a first-bag fee, followed suit as part of its merger with Northwest.
For a family of four checking six bags each way, that can add as much as $220 to the cost of a trip. And that's not counting extra charges for overweight or oversize luggage. Travelers aren't thrilled with the charges. Of 1,000 American travelers surveyed in October by I.B.M., 78 percent said baggage fees are ''rip-offs.'' 
Recognizing that the fees could pose a travel deterrent in these tough economic times, some resorts are running promotions to help offset the charges. Kimpton Hotels, including the Sky Hotel in Aspen, Colo., and the Hotel Monaco in Salt Lake City, is offering up to $25 in credit to guests with proof of payment for a second checked bag. Crested Butte Mountain Resort is offering up to $30 in baggage credit to travelers who book a ski vacation at www.skicb.com. And Vail Resorts, which operates the Vail, Beaver Creek, Breckenridge and Keystone Resorts in Colorado and Heavenly in the Lake Tahoe area of California and Nevada, is offering unlimited ski or snowboard rentals for the season for $359 a person.
Renting, while not necessarily cheaper than checking, is looking more attractive this year compared with paying to check your gear. For one thing, it eliminates the concern of lost luggage, not to mention the added wait time at the bag carousel and the lugging. And there are other benefits.
''You can try the newest equipment on the market and change it up as often as you like,'' based on that day's snow conditions, said Dan Sherman, a spokesman at Ski.com. Many rental stores also offer ski valets or overnight storage so you don't have to carry your gear to and from the lifts every day.
A four-day sport package for renting skis, poles and boots at Breckenridge in Colorado is $125 a person through Ski.com, just $45 more than checking two bags round trip on most carriers.
Keep an eye out for two-for-one discounts, which ski shops tend to offer periodically throughout the season. For example, Ski.com offers up to two free rentals for children age 12 and under with two paid adult demo rentals for five days each at most major resorts out West. At Winter Park Resort in Colorado, that comes to $330 for a family of four renting skis for five days, compared with at least $120 if each family member checked a ski bag on one of the major carriers. If two of those bags were counted as a second bag instead, as would be the case if the family checked four ski bags and two suitcases, the cost for checking would be closer to $220.
SnowSports Industries America, known as SIA, a trade association representing winter sports companies, has started an advertising campaign called Ship Your Gear to promote shipping as an alternative to airline baggage fees. ''As though gas prices, economic concerns and global warming weren't bad enough for our industry, now airline baggage fees are adding yet another travel fee for consumers,'' states the Web site, Snowsports.org. ''This SIA initiative, Ship Your Gear, fights back against the airlines and declining equipment sales, letting consumers know that shipping their own gear is an easy alternative.''
For example, shipping an average ski or snowboard bag via FedEx Ground takes three days from San Francisco to Vail, and is just $23.49, according to Snowlink.com, which offers a list of sample rates for shipping a 25-pound, standard-size (72 by 12 by 8 inches) ski or snowboard bag. That's about $8.50 more than the $15 several airlines now charge for the first checked bag. Shipping the same bag from Boston to Aspen costs $32.44, taking four days.
SNOWLINK.COM also offers a cheat sheet for travelers checking snow sports gear. One tip: Watch your bag's weight. Bags that weigh more than 50 pounds but less than 70 can incur a $50 charge each way. And while most airlines count a ski and boot bag as one piece of luggage, airline policies do not specifically address so-called double bags, which can handle two pairs of skis in one piece of luggage. Two people traveling together using a double bag may be at the mercy of the check-in employee when it comes to fees, according to Snowlink. The same goes for duffel bags with a boot compartment.
Some airlines recently adjusted some of the checked luggage fees they had instituted earlier this year. United, which had planned to increase its domestic second-bag fee from $25 to $50 one way, will now keep the fee at $25. The new checked-bag fees that Delta adopted as part of its merger with Northwest, will apply to customers who purchased tickets on or after Nov. 6 for domestic travel on or after Dec. 5. Customers who purchased Delta tickets on or before Nov. 5, 2008 and who are traveling on or after Dec. 5 will be charged $50 for a second bag, but will be permitted to check their first bag without charge pursuant to Delta's previous policy.
Some airlines offer a discount on checked bag fees when you pay for it online. United, for example, is offering customers a 20 percent discount on the fee to check a first bag when they pay for it on United.com from now to Jan. 31, 2009.
Airlines that don't charge for the first checked bag include Alaska, JetBlue and Virgin America. Southwest doesn't charge a fee for the first or second checked bag. Travelers flying in first or business class are exempt from the fees, and frequent fliers with elite status can generally avoid the new checked bag charges.
Of course, expert packers can avoid most luggage fees. It's not uncommon to see travelers with boots slung over their shoulders in Denver International Airport, for instance.
Dan Keller, a skier from Philadelphia, points out that most airlines count a ski bag and boot bag as one piece of luggage, not two. ''You can usually jam a bunch of clothes in the bag with the boots and even around skis in a ski bag,'' he said. ''The clothes also help to pad the skis and bindings.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); SKIING (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); SNOWBOARDING (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); RESORTS (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); FAMILY (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); LAKES (65%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); VAIL RESORTS INC (58%); CRESTED BUTTE MOUNTAIN RESORT INC (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); MTN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (58%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



244 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; BOOKS OF STYLE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: The Value Of Treasure

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER

 BODY:
TIFFANY STYLE
170 Years of Design
By John Loring.
304 pp. Abrams.
$50.
ALCHEMY
A Passion for Jewels
By Temple St. Clair.
224 pp. Collins Design.
$49.95.
FEELING rattled by the market? Got a raging case of the ''mean reds''? Try Holly Golightly's cure-all. ''The only thing that does any good is to jump in a cab and go to Tiffany's,'' she says in the working script for the film ''Breakfast at Tiffany's.'' ''It calms me down right away. Nothing very bad could happen to you there.''
And yet, the name that today is a byword for luxury had a rocky christening. As John Loring, the company's design director and resident historian, explains in his elegiac illustrated overview ''Tiffany Style,'' when Tiffany & Young (as it was then called) opened its doors in 1837, during a severe economic slump, America as a nation was more or less hostile to frippery -- richer in butter churns than in emerald aigrettes. Hundreds of opulent photographs in this book -- of silver yachting cups, glittering brooches, ornate place settings and models and movie stars dripping gold and diamonds -- attest to how much native attitudes and budgets changed over the ensuing century and a half. 
But Tiffany began as a curiosity shop, selling bric-a-brac from Europe and China. Its early inventory mostly excited the curiosity of thieves, who made off with $5,000 in knickknacks on Jan. 1, 1839. Back then, Mr. Loring writes, ''There was no assurance that the firm had a realistic future in a community where a taste for the finer things of life was rare.'' In those days, Americans who could splash out on jewels traveled to Europe to do so.
Within a decade, though, as revolution spread across Italy and the Habsburg Empire, Europe's nobles started putting their valuables on the block. Tiffany's founders went abroad and scooped up diamonds and rubies at ''rock-bottom prices'' from fleeing aristocrats. When they brought the booty back home, Americans gobbled it up. Not even the Civil War stopped Tiffany's expansion; and when the United States was mired in another recession, in 1876, 10 million cash-strapped flaneurs strolled through Philadelphia's Centennial Exposition to gawk at Tiffany's opal pendants, cat's-eye earrings, and diamond hair ornaments. In the prosperous Gilded Age, Americans got used to putting on the glitz.
The socialite Cornelia Martin stretched the ruby-and-diamond bracelets of Marie Antoinette's daughter around her plump throat; Kate Pulitzer sported Empress Eugenie's diamond necklace, and President Andrew Johnson's former daughter-in-law flashed a briolette diamond that once belonged to Louis XVIII.
The Americans cleaned up pretty well. And so did Tiffany. Mr. Loring writes that 170 years later, there are 120 Tiffany & Company stores worldwide, taking in over $3 million a day.
That said, this book went to press before the October financial free-fall, so past profit figures may not apply.
Indeed, the current market tumult gives ''Tiffany Style'' unexpected newsworthiness for a coffee-table book. After the crash of 1929, Tiffany's worldwide sales collapsed.
In Paris, in one thin month in 1930, only one necklace sold. Not of diamonds or pearls, but of beads. In London, formerly snooty sales agents were reduced to hawking ''Best Brooches'' at 20 percent off.
''The party was over,'' Mr. Loring writes. Nonetheless, as the lustrous photos in ''Tiffany Style'' prove, the party favors remained and decade after decade found new designers and new settings that let them shine as splendidly as before.
So if your portfolio has cratered and you've got a Tiffany bangle under your bed, you might not want to flog it on eBay just yet. Wars and economic crises are passing: but diamonds are forever -- whoever owns them.
IN the two decades of this country's neo-Gilded Age, a well-traveled ''Southern Girl'' and Smithie named Temple St. Clair began creating shiny baubles that caught the fancy of Naomi Watts, Nicole Kidman, Beyonce Knowles and Heidi Klum.
In ''Alchemy: A Passion for Jewels,'' Ms. St. Clair presents a quirkily luxurious scrapbook of the experiences that led her to jewelry design, beginning in her junior year abroad in Italy, when she hunted down a Florentine artisan to help her make a necklace for her mother.
Inspired by Greek and Indian mythology, by ancient Etruscan goldwork and Egyptian frescoes, by Renaissance paintings of Medicis in jeweled gowns and by the motifs and colors of Louis Comfort Tiffany, she makes contemporary pieces that exhale the incense-aura of history.
Ms. St. Clair likes to work 18-carat gold into simple chains and settings that frame stones in the liquid shades -- blues, greens and clarets -- that you might see in a Byzantine mosaic.
She also draws ideas from more recent sources, like the paintings of Cy Twombly and the dances of Merce Cunningham, whose modern fluidity she tries to translate to her own compositions.
''In the mainstream of Western culture, we've lost sight of the significance of jewelry,'' Ms. St. Clair writes. To her, a true jewel should be ''a miniature history lesson in itself.''
Whether her customers seek such instruction, they seem to appreciate the results of their jeweler's studiousness: wearable art that's as timeless as Tiffany, and a little more affordable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINE JEWELRY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (74%); HISTORY (73%); BUDGETS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011



245 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Divided On Aid to Automakers

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting from Detroit, and Karen Zraick from Westport, Conn.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Senate staff members worked through the weekend to draft legislation for a taxpayer rescue of the imperiled American automobile industry, Republicans who have the power to scuttle the plan offered mixed reactions to the preliminary details on Saturday. 
 Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri -- who with Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, proposed a plan last month that was nearly identical to the one Congressional Democrats have now endorsed -- said he was pleased. 
 ''I'm glad the Democratic leadership has embraced the principles of the Bond-Levin bill to hold auto companies accountable, protect taxpayers and save millions of American jobs as we head into the holiday season,'' Mr. Bond said in a statement. 
 But Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, who sharply questioned executives of Detroit's Big Three auto companies at a hearing on Thursday, said he was unhappy with the way the plan seemed to be shaping up on the Senate banking committee.
 ''Based on the outline we've seen so far, we are disappointed,'' Mr. Corker said in a statement. He reiterated his demands that the automakers make aggressive efforts to cut labor costs and reduce their overall debt obligations before receiving any aid.
 ''These are the same types of conditions a bankruptcy judge might require to ensure that these companies become viable and sustainable into the future,'' Mr. Corker said. ''And if they will agree to these terms, then we have something to talk about.'' 
 The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said he would be looking for strong taxpayer protections. 
 ''I look forward to reviewing the legislation being drafted to address the difficulties in our auto markets,'' Mr. McConnell said in a statement. ''As we consider this legislation, our first priority must be to protect the hard-earned money of the American taxpayer.'' 
 The Democrats currently hold a 50-to-49 majority, with one vacancy because of the resignation of President-elect Barack Obama. It is also unlikely that Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr., who is still a senator from Delaware, or Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who has been chosen for secretary of state, would vote. 
 The senior Republican on the banking committee, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, has said he will oppose any taxpayer-financed bailout for the auto industry, and other fiscal hawks are likely to join him in opposing the measure. 
 Republican support is less critical in the House, where Democrats enjoy a wider majority. 
 The banking committee staff set to work immediately after Congressional Democratic leaders reached a consensus late Friday afternoon to push ahead with a package of short-term emergency loans for the Big Three auto companies, Chrysler, Ford and General Motors. 
 Details of the legislation were still in the early stages, but the White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said Saturday that there was progress. 
 ''We have had constructive discussions with members of Congress from both houses, and both sides of the aisle,'' Ms. Perino said in a statement. ''We hope to continue to make progress toward assistance for the automakers based on important principles.'' 
 Among the White House demands are that the money aid only companies that agree to concessions to ensure future viability and competitiveness, that the money come from $25 billion in federally subsidized loans already approved for auto companies, and that the legislation provide for taxpayer protections. 
 ''Taxpayers should not be asked to finance assistance for automakers without a strong likelihood that they will be paid back,'' Ms. Perino said. 
 Lawmakers drafting the bill are expected to require that the Big Three automakers, as a condition to getting government loans, drop their legal opposition to efforts by California and 15 other states to reduce heat-trapping gases, according to an official of the automakers. 
 The Detroit automakers, as well as foreign manufacturers, have opposed the state-by-state approach to cutting vehicle emissions, arguing that different standards across the country would add too much complexity to their cars and trucks.
 The short-term rescue package is likely to focus on G.M. and Chrysler, which are in more perilous condition than Ford. At Congressional hearings last week, some experts testified that without government aid, G.M. was in danger of financial collapse by the end of the month. 
 Although the parameters of the aid package were still being formed, the breakthrough in discussions among Congressional Democrats was the willingness of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to tap the existing loan program, at least temporarily, to provide the emergency aid. 
 Ms. Pelosi had resisted that idea, saying she did not want to compromise on the higher fuel-efficiency goals, and on Friday she said she would agree to use that money only if it was replenished within a matter of weeks.
 Accomplishing Ms. Pelosi's goal will be among the trickiest challenges facing Congressional staff members as they work to draft the legislation. 
 Part of the reason it remains unclear how much money the auto companies will get is that the loan guarantees are now worth substantially less than $25 billion. Congress appropriated $7 billion this fall to guarantee the loans, an amount determined by budgeting rules based on the risk that the companies might default. 
 Now that the condition of at least two of the three auto manufacturers has further deteriorated, that default risk is greater, and the $7 billion will guarantee only a smaller package of loans, perhaps $15 billion to $17 billion. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, was back in his home state, where he met with local auto dealers at a Pontiac showroom in Westport to draw attention to the difficulties their industry faced. With a new report showing staggering job losses in November, Mr. Dodd and other senior Democrats said that allowing any of the three auto companies to collapse would be unthinkable, given the dire economic conditions. 
 ''If we don't step up and take some action,'' Mr. Dodd said, ''this economy will get worse by the hour.''
 Mr. Obama and his transition team have closely monitored the developments on Capitol Hill and been in close contact with Ms. Pelosi as they consider the implications for his economic agenda and his plan to create jobs. 
 The bipartisan proposal from Mr. Bond and Mr. Levin, released just before Thanksgiving, called for tapping the same $25 billion in federally subsidized loans, but also called for the requirements of that bill, mandating that the automakers retool their operations to produce advanced fuel-efficient vehicles, to remain in place. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about Congressional negotiations over federal aid for the automobile industry misstated the likelihood that Senators Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Hillary Rodham Clinton would vote on any package considered in the lame-duck session of Congress. Mr. Biden, the vice-president elect, would vote if needed, and Mrs. Clinton, chosen to be the next secretary of state, intends to vote, according to their aides. It is not unlikely that they would vote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, right, with Chris Curran, left, and Jim Curran, who sell General Motors cars in Westport, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURBANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); JUDGES (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); KIT BOND (79%); BOB CORKER (78%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%); CARL LEVIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); RICHARD SHELBY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



246 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: The Privileged and Their Children

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
IN a time of war and recession, with a historic change of government about to take place, two recent articles far from those weighty subjects angered some readers of The Times and raised troubling journalistic issues.
 One was a front-page report late last month on efforts by the movie star Angelina Jolie to control her image. The other was last Sunday's cover story in The New York Times Magazine by Alex Kuczynski, an author and former Times reporter, about her battle with infertility and the experience of having another woman bear her baby for $25,000. 
 Mia McDonald of Brooklyn objected to the Jolie story. ''Does this really merit the front page, let alone a mention in the newspaper at all?'' she asked, suggesting that The Times should not devote precious resources to overexposed celebrities. Howard Saunders of Hudson, N.Y., was furious that, with all the serious news to be covered, ''the NY Times has disgraced itself by giving so much prominent ink'' to Kuczynski, who came off to many readers as a rich woman in a rarefied world of servants and multiple homes, able to enjoy skiing, whitewater rafting and the Super Bowl while her surrogate was pregnant. ''All of the words I would like to use are unprintable,'' Saunders said. More than 400 readers posted messages on the Web site of The Times, and many were equally scathing.
 I do not think the articles were about undeserving subjects. The Times covers war, recession, politics, science and more with great thoroughness, and a change of pace is refreshing. But each raised other issues worth examining.
 In the case of the Jolie article, it is the most fundamental question in journalism: Are all the facts right? 
 Brooks Barnes, the reporter, began with an anecdote about how Jolie and Brad Pitt negotiated last summer with celebrity magazines for photos of their newborn twins and an interview. He wrote that they wanted positive coverage from the winning magazine, then and in the future. Jolie asked for an ''editorial plan,'' including a road map of the layout, Barnes wrote, citing two anonymous sources ''with knowledge of the bidding.''
 While the article did not directly say that Jolie got what she wanted from People, the winning magazine, it strongly implied it. People denied that it had agreed to any conditions, and Larry Hackett, its managing editor, told me that no such conditions were ever even requested.
 Hackett said he handled all the negotiations for the photos and interview with Jolie's manager, Geyer Kosinski, Pitt's manager, Jon Liebman, and Jonathan Klein, the chief executive of Getty Images, which took the pictures. He said the discussions were all about the price of the pictures. ''There was never any conversation about positive coverage,'' Hackett said. ''There was never any conversation about a future plan.'' Liebman said Hackett's version was correct. Kosinski said that The Times's description of what Jolie was asking for was ''simply not true.'' Klein said People was ''free to write what they wanted'' and to ''do the layout they wanted.'' He said Jolie and Pitt chose the photos they sold to People. Hackett said they suggested one for the cover but People used a different one.
 I have read the seven-page contract for the photos and interview. It made no mention of positive coverage, an editorial plan, a road map for a layout or any other editorial conditions. It said the magazine was buying the North American rights to 10 photographs and that Jolie and Pitt would answer e-mailed questions. 
 Mary Green, the People reporter who conducted the e-mail interview, said no one put any limits on what she could ask. The story was to accompany photos of the twins, so she concentrated on them and family life, she said.
 The 19-page spread that People published on Aug. 18 was certainly positive, even glowing. ''To say our coverage of Angelina is not positive or admiring, that would be disingenuous,'' Hackett said. But he said that did not mean there was any advance agreement with her. 
 There is no question that Jolie has a history of trying to manipulate coverage of her, and it is frustrating to Barnes and his editor, Bruce Headlam, that some of the people speaking to me would not speak to him when he was reporting the story. But I think that unless one of his sources is willing to come forward -- on the record -- and state firsthand knowledge contradicting Hackett, Green, Liebman, Kosinski, Klein and the written contract, the paper needs to correct the impression it left of a deal it cannot prove.
 Headlam said Barnes has reconfirmed his account with a third source, and Headlam believes the story is solid. That leaves The Times relying on anonymous sources to dispute on-the-record sources, a questionable position over a story of less than world-shaking import. 
 The magazine article about gestational surrogacy -- a woman's bearing the biological child of someone else -- posed a very different issue. The facts were not in dispute. But the article focused almost totally on the wealthy Kuczynski and her feelings without giving a voice to Cathy Hilling, the substitute teacher who bore her son. The article glossed over their class and economic differences, but the accompanying photographs seemed to emphasize them. The cumulative impact struck some readers as elitist.
 Some readers were so offended by the pictures that they never even tried to read Kuczynski's account of her struggle to have a child. One photograph showed her holding her son on the lawn of her Southampton home, columns along a wide veranda with white wicker in the background, a uniformed baby nurse standing at attention. Two pages later, Hilling was shown pregnant, leaning back on her dilapidated-looking porch in Harleysville, Pa., weeds peeking out from beneath it, a dog lying at her side. To many readers, the pictures screamed rich woman exploiting poor woman.
 Kuczynski, who said she disagreed with her editors over the photographs before publication, said she felt they were ''incendiary'' and distracted from the story. Hilling, clearly portrayed in the article as middle class, described the porch as ''the ugliest part'' of her renovated, 135-year-old home. She said she felt the photo of her was ''contrived.'' Gerald Marzorati, the editor of the magazine, acknowledged the ''upstairs, downstairs'' quality of the photos but said they were not set up to be that way.
 Jill Abramson, the managing editor for news, said she is ''a big, big fan'' of Kuczynski and her writing. But she said she thought that because the article did not deal forthrightly enough with the economic disparity between Kuczynski and Hilling, it ''got people thinking there was a kind of cluelessness about that.'' The photo of Kuczynski, she said, ''dripped with to-the-manor-born.''
 Kuczynski was stung by the reader criticism and said she has heard from hundreds of women grateful for her story; some described their experiences with gestational surrogacy, and others asked for more information about it. 
 Hilling said she was a bit frustrated by the pictures and Kuczynski's story. ''It was her opportunity to tell her experience,'' she said. ''I wish there was a way for me to share more of my part in it.'' She said her motivation was not money, which mostly just covered her time lost from work, but the ''incredible high'' of knowing ''you can make someone's dream come true.''
 I think readers would have been more satisfied if editors had given some space to Hilling's feelings. Surrogacy does, after all, involve two mothers. The magazine seemed oblivious that it was giving one of them the short end of the story.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (76%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); WEB SITES (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); BOATING & RAFTING (51%)

COMPANY: GETTY IMAGES INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541922 COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY (50%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (79%); BRAD PITT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



247 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Bush, On His Way Out, Leads Way in for Others

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Word was leaking out that President Bush had bought a new house in Dallas, workers were building the inauguration stage for his successor right outside his front door and his top aides were helping the new guy to prepare to take over.
 Still, on Tuesday alone, Mr. Bush hired 18 people ''to serve in his administration,'' a White House news release said. 
 The appointments and nominations mostly involved multiyear terms to small boards and commissions that most Americans have never heard about. 
 But they highlight both the vestiges of power Mr. Bush can still exercise to leave a lasting mark on government, and the external limits to that power that are, in large part, the result of eight bruising years of partisan warfare.
 All told, Mr. Bush has made roughly 30 personnel moves since the November election, some in nominations that will require Senate approval, and others in direct appointments that will last well into President-elect Barack Obama's term and beyond. 
 Yet, unlike some of the contentious, late regulatory moves by the president, none of the appointments, and reappointments, have raised a peep of protest from the Democrats, Mr. Obama, or even the liberal interest groups that have so closely monitored his personnel decisions.
 In part, Mr. Bush's ability to make confrontational or highly ideological appointments is somewhat limited by the Democratic-controlled Congress in ways his predecessors were not.
 For instance, in late December 2000, President Bill Clinton got around a standoff with Republicans by appointing a federal judge, Roger L. Gregory, when Congress was in recess. (Under provisions set out in the Constitution, the recess appointees can stay in their positions without Senate confirmation until the end of the next session of Congress.) Eight years earlier, the first President George Bush used the Congressional recess to beat back a constitutional challenge from the United States Postal Service's board of governors by appointing a longtime friend to sit on the board, tipping the balance of power in his favor. But the current president will have no such option: For the last year or so, the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, has sought to keep the Senate in session to prevent such appointments. 
 Even during holiday weeks, when most lawmakers have left Washington for their home districts, Mr. Reid has assigned a member to stay behind and gavel the empty chamber into session.
 Proving that the intragovernmental bitterness is not fading with the end of Mr. Bush's presidency, Jim Manley, a spokesman for Mr. Reid, said Mr. Bush had only himself to blame for Mr. Reid's maneuver. ''The only reason why we got into this situation was because of the complete unwillingness of the president to treat Congress as a co-equal branch of government,'' he said.
 Tony Fratto, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said the president might have been inclined to make outgoing recess appointments were it not for Mr. Reid's legislative blockade. 
 ''Given the fact that the Senate was so intransigent on so many nominations, we certainly would have liked to have used the option of recess appointments,'' Mr. Fratto said. ''This process is broken, absolutely broken. The majority leader has taken it to the point of abuse.''
 But there are some areas of cooperation that would preclude the need for recess appointments. Democratic leaders support the confirmation of Mr. Bush's choice as the inspector general overseeing the allocation of money for the economic bailout plan, Neil M. Barofsky, a federal prosecutor from New York.
 And a deal is in the works to confirm the four people Mr. Bush reappointed for six-year terms on the board of the Inter-American Foundation, which makes grants to businesses and organizations in Latin America and the Caribbean. Among them is Roger W. Wallace, a supporter and major fund-raiser for Mr. Bush. 
 There are also appointments that require no Congressional approval but have terms that run for years. None of those have created much of a stir, either. 
 Mr. Bush nominated six people for four-year terms on the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, which is charged with scientifically evaluating Department of Energy plans to store nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain in Nevada -- a plan Mr. Bush has supported and Mr. Obama has opposed. But the board's members, while appointed by the president, are recommended by the National Academy of Sciences, and their recommendations are not binding. (If anybody was going to raise a flag on the appointments it would have been Mr. Reid, who represents Nevada and passionately opposes the Yucca plan; his office said it had no complaints on the matter.)
 ''We are apolitical,'' said one of the people reappointed to the panel, Andrew C. Kadak, a professor at M.I.T. ''Whoever is president, we are indifferent to that -- we are attempting to see that the work that the D.O.E. is doing is technically correct and appropriate.''
 On Dec. 2, Mr. Bush made seven appointments to the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of the American Latino. But the board of 23 is bipartisan in nature. And, given that the title of the commission includes the word ''potential,'' the appointments were met with a certain lack of urgency in the Capitol.
 That same day, Mr. Bush appointed a longtime family friend and former business partner, Fred V. Malek, to the board of visitors of the United States Military Academy. Mr. Malek, who was a partner with Mr. Bush in the Texas Rangers baseball team, will serve for three years. A West Point graduate, he has donated generously to its campus; his appointment, like the others, provoked no complaint.
 Mr. Fratto pointed out that Mr. Bush's term is a full four years -- not 3 years, 10 months and 4 days -- and the president will not pull punches as he makes potentially still more appointments. ''We actually do have not just the authority,'' he said, ''we have an obligation to do what we think is best for the country up until 11:59 a.m. on January 20.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); JUDGES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HARRY REID (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



248 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Fought Over Any Good Books Lately?

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
JOCELYN BOWIE was thrilled by the invitation to join a book group. She had just returned to her hometown, Bloomington, Ind., to take an administration job at Indiana University, and thought she had won a ticket to a top echelon. ''I was hoping to network with all these women in upper-level jobs at I.U., then I found they were in the book group,'' she said. ''I thought, 'Great! They'll see how wonderful I am, and we'll have these great conversations about books.' ''
 Ms. Bowie cannot pinpoint the precise moment when disillusion replaced delight. Maybe it was the evening she tried to persuade everyone to look beyond Oprah Winfrey's picks, ''and they all said 'What's wrong with Oprah?' '' she said.
 Or perhaps it was the meeting when she lobbied for literary classics like ''Emma'' and the rest of the group was abuzz about ''The Secret Life of Bees,'' a pop-lit best seller. 
 The last straw came when the group picked ''The Da Vinci Code'' and someone suggested the discussion would be enriched by delving into the author's source material. ''It was bad enough that they wanted to read 'Da Vinci Code' in the first place,'' Ms. Bowie said, ''but then they wanted to talk about it.'' She quit shortly after, making up a polite excuse: ''I told the organizer, 'You're reading fiction, and I'm reading history right now.' ''
 Yes, it's a nice, high-minded idea to join a book group, a way to make friends and read books that might otherwise sit untouched. But what happens when you wind up hating all the literary selections -- or the other members? Breaking up isn't so hard to do when it means freedom from inane critical commentary, political maneuvering, hurt feelings, bad chick lit and even worse chardonnay.
 ''Who knew a book group could be such a soap opera?'' said Barb Burg, senior vice president at Bantam Dell, which publishes many titles adopted by book groups. ''You'd think it would just be about the book. But wherever I go, people want to talk to me about the infighting and the politics.''
 One member may push for John Updike, while everyone else is set on John Grisham. One person wants to have a glass of wine and talk about the book, while everyone else wants to get drunk and talk about their spouses. ''There are all these power struggles about what book gets chosen,'' Ms. Burg said. Then come the complaints: ''It's too long, it's too short, it's not literary enough, it's too literary ... ''
 The literary societies of the 19th century seemed content to leave the drama to authors and poets, whom they discussed with great seriousness of purpose. Some book groups evolved from sewing circles, which ''gave women a chance to exercise their intellect and have a social gathering,'' said Rachel W. Jacobsohn, author of ''The Reading Group Handbook,'' which gives a history of the format plus dos and don'ts for modern hosts. 
 Today there are perhaps four million to five million book groups in the United States, and the number is thought to be rising, said Ann Kent, the founder of Book Group Expo, an annual gathering of readers and authors.
 ''I firmly believe there was an uptick in the number of book groups after 9/11, and I'm expecting another increase in these difficult economic times,'' she said. ''We're looking to stay connected and to have a form of entertainment that's affordable, and book groups are an easy avenue for that.'' 
 Most groups are all-female, but there are plenty of all-male and coed ones. Lately there have emerged plenty of online-only book groups too, though -- given the difficulty of flinging a drink in the face of a member who suggests reading Trollope -- those are clearly a different animal.
 And more clubs means more acrimony. Sometimes there is a rambler in the group, whose opinion far outlasts the natural interest of others, or a pedant, who never met a literary reference she did not yearn to sling. The most common cause of dissatisfaction and departures? 
 ''It's because there's an ayatollah,'' said Esther Bushell, a professional book-group facilitator who leads a dozen suburban New York groups and charges $250 to $300 a member annually for her services. ''This person expects to choose all the books and to take over all the discussions. And when I come on board, the ayatollah is threatened and doesn't say anything.'' Like other facilitators, she is hired for the express purpose of bringing long-winded types in line.
 For Doreen Orion, a psychiatrist in Boulder, Colo., the spoiler in her book group was a drama queen who turned every meeting into her own personal therapy session. Dr. Orion was used to such people in her practice, but in her personal life -- well, no thanks. ''There were always things going on in her life with relationships, and she'd want to talk about it,'' she said. ''There'd be some weird thing in a book and she'd relate it to her life no matter what. Everything came back to her. It was really exhausting after a while.''
 What attracted Susan Farewell to a book group called the IlluminaTea were guidelines that precluded such off-putting antics. No therapy talk, no chitchat and no skipping meetings. ''It was very high-minded,'' said Ms. Farewell, a travel writer in Westport, Conn. Members took turns selecting books, ''and you felt that your choice was a measure of how intelligent and sophisticated and worldly you were,'' she said. 
 The high standards extended to the refreshment table. ''When it was your month to host a meeting, you would do your interpretation of a tea, and the teas got very competitive,'' Ms. Farewell said. Homemade scones and Devonshire cream were par for the course, and Ms. Farewell recalls spending the day before her hostess stint making watercress and smoked salmon sandwiches. 
 This started to feel oppressive. ''If the standards had been more relaxed, I would have stayed in the group,'' she said. ''But I just felt I couldn't keep getting clotted cream. I couldn't work and carry on the formality and get through the novel every month, so I just said I couldn't make the meetings anymore.''
 Some who leave one group find happiness in another. Dr. Orion and another woman broke from their original group and contacted another woman who had also left. ''Then we secretly reconstituted as another group,'' Dr. Orion said. ''We've been going strong for 10 years, but our experience has made us cautious about inviting new members. We've become very selective.''
 Nancy Atkins Peck, an artist and historian in Glen Rock, N.J., has also made a successful transition. Until the election cycle of 2004, she had loved her book group -- the members read ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn,'' novels by Virginia Woolf ''and sometimes a paperback of no importance,'' she said. 
 Then, after a presidential debate, an argument about the candidates ensued, ''so it was decided that we couldn't read any political books or have any political discussions anymore,'' recalled Ms. Peck, who had just suggested the group read a book about the Bush White House.
 ''It was nixed, and I just felt that was unnatural,'' given that the group had successfully discussed other sensitive issues, she said. She and her husband then joined a coed group, which has worked out well. ''And we read a heck of a lot of political books,'' she said triumphantly.
 Sometimes the problem is a life-stage mismatch among group members. ''I know of a group where all but one member has young children,'' said Susanne Pari, author of the novel ''The Fortune Catcher'' and the program director at Book Group Expo. ''They talk for 15 minutes about the book and then launch into a discussion of poopy diapers and nap times and preschool.'' 
 Then the one member who had nothing to bring to the soiled Pampers conversation announced she did not have time for the group. For etiquette reasons, ''it's very uncommon'' for people to give the real reason for their disenchantment, Ms. Pari said. 
 Ms. Bushell, the book-group facilitator, tells of one woman who left a group ''because she didn't envision herself sitting around talking about a book -- she thought some business networking would take place.''
 Another woman decamped because she wanted to read more chick lit. ''I hate to sound ponderous,'' Ms. Bushell said, ''but I have a certain moral obligation. I don't feel I can be paid for leading a discussion about 'The Devil Wears Prada.'''
 At Book Passage, a store with two branches in the San Francisco area, Kate Larson is something of a Miss Lonely Hearts for newcomers and disgruntled book group members. ''I collect names, and when I get 12 or 14 I ask them to come to a meeting at the store,'' she said. ''If it looks like they all agree about what kinds of things they want to read, they've got a book club.''
 Ms. Larson uses a newsletter to help people find special-interest groups -- say, in science fiction or spirituality. Groups made up of total strangers seem to last longer, she said, ''because the focus is truly on the book.''
 As for Ms. Bowie of Indiana University, she was asked to join another group but has chosen to stay unaffiliated. ''My experience was a real disappointment,'' she said. ''Now when I look at a novel in a store and it has book group questions in the back, it almost puts me off from buying it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OVER OPRAH: Jocelyn Bowie of Indiana broke it off with her book club because of its selections.(PHOTOGRAPH BY A J MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST10
 SPEAK FREELY: Nancy Atkins Peck of New Jersey left her group because of a ban on talking politics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST11) DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY HOVLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK CLUBS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (78%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



249 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: When Job Disappears, So Does Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: ASHLAND, Ohio 

 BODY:
As jobless numbers reach levels not seen in 25 years, another crisis is unfolding for millions of people who lost their health insurance along with their jobs, joining the ranks of the uninsured.
 The crisis is on display here. Starla D. Darling, 27, was pregnant when she learned that her insurance coverage was about to end. She rushed to the hospital, took a medication to induce labor and then had an emergency Caesarean section, in the hope that her Blue Cross and Blue Shield plan would pay for the delivery.
 Wendy R. Carter, 41, who recently lost her job and her health benefits, is struggling to pay $12,942 in bills for a partial hysterectomy at a local hospital. Her daughter, Betsy A. Carter, 19, has pain in her lower right jaw, where a wisdom tooth is growing in. But she has not seen a dentist because she has no health insurance.
 Ms. Darling and Wendy Carter are among 275 people who worked at an Archway cookie factory here in north central Ohio. The company provided excellent health benefits. But the plant shut down abruptly this fall, leaving workers without coverage, like millions of people battered by the worst economic crisis since the Depression. 
 About 10.3 million Americans were unemployed in November, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The number of unemployed has increased by 2.8 million, or 36 percent, since January of this year, and by 4.3 million, or 71 percent, since January 2001. 
 Most people are covered through the workplace, so when they lose their jobs, they lose their health benefits. On average, for each jobless worker who has lost insurance, at least one child or spouse covered under the same policy has also lost protection, public health experts said.
 Expanding access to health insurance, with federal subsidies, was a priority for President-elect Barack Obama and the new Democratic Congress. The increase in the ranks of the uninsured, including middle-class families with strong ties to the work force, adds urgency to their efforts.
 ''This shows why -- no matter how bad the condition of the economy -- we can't delay pursuing comprehensive health care,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio. ''There are too many victims who are innocent of anything but working at the wrong place at the wrong time.''
 Some parts of the federal safety net are more responsive to economic distress. The number of people on food stamps set a record in September, with 31.6 million people receiving benefits, up by two million in one month. 
 Nearly 4.4 million people are receiving unemployment insurance benefits, an increase of 60 percent in the past year. But more than half of unemployed workers are not receiving help because they do not qualify or have exhausted their benefits.
 About 1.7 million families receive cash under the main federal-state welfare program, little changed from a year earlier. Welfare serves about 4 of 10 eligible families and fewer than one in four poor children.
 In a letter dated Oct. 3, Archway told workers that their jobs would be eliminated, and their insurance terminated on Oct. 6, because of ''unforeseeable business circumstances.'' The company, owned by a private equity firm based in Greenwich, Conn., filed a petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.
 Archway workers typically made $13 to $20 an hour. To save money in a tough economy, they are canceling appointments with doctors and dentists, putting off surgery, and going without prescription medicines for themselves and their children.
 Archway cited ''the challenging economic environment'' as a reason for closing.
 ''We have been operating at a loss due largely to the significant increases in raw material costs, such as flour, butter, sugar and dairy, and the record high fuel costs across the country,'' the company said. 
 At this time of year, the Archway plant would usually be bustling as employees worked overtime to make Christmas cookies. This year the plant is silent. The aromas of cinnamon and licorice are missing. More than 40 trailers sit in the parking lot with nothing to haul.
 In the weeks before it filed for bankruptcy protection, Archway apparently fell behind in paying for its employee health plan. In its bankruptcy filing, Archway said it owed more than $700,000 to Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, one of its largest creditors.
 Richard D. Jackson, 53, was an oven operator at the bakery for 30 years. Mr. Jackson and his two daughters often used the Archway health plan to pay for doctor's visits, imaging, surgery and medicines. Now that he has no insurance, he takes his Effexor antidepressant pills every other day, rather than daily, as prescribed.
 Another former Archway employee, Jeffrey D. Austen, 50, said he had canceled shoulder surgery scheduled for Oct. 13 at the Cleveland Clinic because he had no way to pay for it. 
 ''I had already lined up an orthopedic surgeon and an anesthesiologist,'' Mr. Austen said.
 In mid-October, Janet M. Esbenshade, 37, who had been a packer at the Archway plant, began to notice that her vision was blurred. ''My eyes were burning, itching and watery,'' Ms. Esbenshade said. ''Pus was oozing out. If I had had insurance, I would have gone to an eye doctor right away.''
 She waited two weeks. The infection became worse. She went to the hospital on Oct. 26. Doctors found that she had keratitis, a painful condition that she may have picked up from an old pair of contact lenses. They prescribed antibiotics, which have cleared up the infection.
 Ms. Esbenshade has two daughters, ages 6 and 10, with asthma. She has explained to them why ''we are not Christmas shopping this year -- unless, by some miracle, Mommy goes back to work and gets a paycheck.''
 She said she had told the girls, ''I would rather you stay out of the hospital and take your medication than buy you a little toy right now because I think your health is more important.''
 In some cases, people who are laid off can maintain their group health benefits under a federal law, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986, known as Cobra. But that is not an option for former Archway employees because their group health plan no longer exists. And they generally cannot afford to buy insurance on their own.
 Wendy Carter's case is typical. She receives $956 a month in unemployment benefits. Her monthly expenses include her share of the rent ($300), car payments ($300), auto insurance ($75), utilities ($220) and food ($260). That leaves nothing for health insurance. 
 Ms. Darling, who was pregnant when her insurance ran out, worked at Archway for eight years, and her father, Franklin J. Phillips, worked there for 24 years.
 ''When I heard that I was losing my insurance,'' she said, ''I was scared. I remember that the bill for my son's delivery in 2005 was about $9,000, and I knew I would never be able to pay that by myself.''
 So Ms. Darling asked her midwife to induce labor two days before her health insurance expired. 
 ''I was determined that we were getting this baby out, and it was going to be paid for,'' said Ms. Darling, who was interviewed at her home here as she cradled the infant in her arms. 
 As it turned out, the insurance company denied her claim, leaving Ms. Darling with more than $17,000 in medical bills.
 The latest official estimate of the number of uninsured, from the Census Bureau, is for 2007, when the economy was in better condition. In that year, the bureau says, 45.7 million people, accounting for 15.3 percent of the population, were uninsured.
 M. Harvey Brenner, a professor of public health at the University of North Texas and Johns Hopkins University, said that three decades of research had shown a correlation between the condition of the economy and human health, including life expectancy.
 ''In recessions, with declines in national income and increases in unemployment,'' Mr. Brenner said, ''you often see increases in mortality from heart disease, cancer, psychiatric illnesses and other conditions.'' 
 The recession is also taking a toll on hospitals. 
 ''We have seen a significant increase in patients seeking assistance paying their bills,'' said Erin M. Al-Mehairi, a spokeswoman for Samaritan Hospital in Ashland. ''We've had a 40 percent increase in charity care write-offs this year over the 2007 level of $2.7 million.''
 In addition, people are using the hospital less. ''We've seen a huge decrease in M.R.I.'s, CAT scans, stress tests, cardiac catheterization tests, knee and hip replacements and other elective surgery,'' Ms. Al-Mehairi said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starla D. Darling, with her son, Colt, and daughter, Kathryn. Ms. Darling lost her health benefits when a cookie factory closed.
 Jeffrey D. Austen was among the 275 people who worked at the factory, in Ashland, Ohio. Mr. Austen and several other former workers said they had decided to put off medical procedures. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); DISMISSALS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); STATISTICS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); SHERROD BROWN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



250 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: It's Always a Numbers Game for Boras, Agent to the Stars

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
As baseball's most influential agent, Scott Boras immerses himself in numbers. In his company's headquarters in Newport Beach, Calif., he has a room full of computers equipped with data from every game since 1871. Numbers flow freely from him in conversation -- statistics, ages, contract terms.
 With the baseball world descending on Las Vegas this weekend for the start of the winter meetings on Monday, Boras does not want to hear about the effects of the recession on baseball. As he seeks teams for a dazzling group of free agents including Manny Ramirez, Mark Teixeira, Derek Lowe and Oliver Perez, Boras has one relevant number in mind: $6.5 billion. 
 That is the amount of revenue baseball generated in 2008, a record for the industry. To Boras -- and other agents still waiting for teams to make their usual lucrative offers -- there is still plenty of money to go around.
 ''Even if, hypothetically, attendance is down and the revenues go from $6.5 billion to $6 billion, the fact remains that players last year received $3 billion in salaries,'' Boras said Friday, adding that a large part of the players' share had expired because of free agency.
 ''If the industry is making $6 billion and the players make $3 billion, you still have 50 percent to the players and 50 percent to the owners.''
 Boras's history suggests reason for optimism. He does not always get the contracts he seeks, but he has made enough staggering winter deals -- for Alex Rodriguez, Barry Zito, Kevin Brown and Magglio Ordonez, among others -- that it is never wise to doubt him.
 While teams that rely heavily on credit to finance long-term contracts are acting more frugally this off-season, others have more cash to spend. Boras's guiding principle is that it takes only one team to set the market, and he offered a hint of that theory when asked his opinion about the effects of the overall economy on baseball.
 ''I think there are 30 economies in baseball,'' Boras said, referring to the 30 major league teams, and adding later: ''We know baseball had record revenues, and the profits that are in the barn for many owners are extraordinary. There are clubs that run their business appropriately, and we all know it's good business to have good players.''
 In recent years, Boras has found a willing partner in the Detroit Tigers, who parlayed the signing of three clients -- Ordonez, Kenny Rogers and Ivan Rodriguez -- into an unlikely American League pennant in 2006. The Tigers ranked second in payroll last season, at $138.6 million, but their attendance could dip sharply in 2009 because of the economy in Michigan.
 Still, the teams directly above and below the Tigers were the Yankees, at $209 million, and the Mets, at $138.2 million. They are moving into new stadiums and have their own cable networks; in theory, they will have plenty of room in their budgets for free agents.
 The Yankees have at least some degree of interest in the three most prominent free agents -- Teixeira, Ramirez and C. C. Sabathia, who is scheduled to meet with General Manager Brian Cashman this weekend. Boras said many teams were waiting for those players to sign, explaining the stalled market.
 ''There may be as many as seven or eight clubs after each one of those players,'' Boras said. ''Those clubs are waiting for those players, and they're not pursuing the next players in line. So you have as many as 12 or 14 teams locked up, looking at those players and not making a decision until those players make their decisions. If those players sign with another team, those clubs may have a great deal of money to allocate.''
 Yet even the Yankees showed last week that they have limits to the amount they are willing to risk. As much as they value compensatory draft picks, they did not offer salary arbitration to outfielder Bobby Abreu for fear he would be unable to find an appealing deal on the free-agent market and accept their offer.
 In most years, Abreu would have widespread appeal; despite declining defensive skills, he has six successive seasons of 100 runs batted in, an active streak matched only by Alex Rodriguez and Albert Pujols. But the Yankees surveyed the landscape and chose not to risk an offer.
 Abreu is not represented by Boras. His agent is Peter Greenberg, who negotiated a six-year, $137.5 million contract for Johan Santana with the Mets before last season. That was a record for a pitcher, but the Yankees' offer to Sabathia -- six years, $140 million -- would top it.
 If the Yankees can persuade Sabathia and his agent, Greg Genske, to take it, the deal will be one of the first signs that at least some players are unaffected by the economy. The way Boras sees it, Sabathia will have plenty of company among satisfied players by the time spring training begins.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Boras, above and near left, represents a dazzling group of baseball free agents. In 2004, he negotiated a lucrative deal for Ivan Rodriguez, far left, with the Tigers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LENNY IGNELZI/ASSOCIATED PRESSCARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (59%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



251 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 7665 words

HEADLINE: THE END OF THE END OF THE REVOLUTION

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen, a columnist for The International Herald Tribune and The Times, is the author of ''Hearts Grown Brutal: Sagas of Sarajevo.''

 BODY:
ON MY FIRST DAY IN HAVANA I wandered down to the Malecon, the world's most haunting urban seafront promenade. A norte was blustering, sending breakers crashing over the stone dike built in 1901 under short-lived American rule. Bright explosions of spray unfurled onto the sidewalk.
 I was almost alone on a Sunday morning in Cuba's capital city of 2.2 million people. A couple of cars a minute passed, often finned '50s beauties, Studebakers and Chevrolets, extravagant and battered. Here and there, a stray mutt scrounged. Washing flapped on the ornate ironwork balconies of crumbling mansions. Looking out on the ocean, I searched in vain for a single boat. 
 It was not always so, 90 miles off the coast of Florida. In 1859, Richard Henry Dana Jr., an American lawyer whose ''To Cuba and Back'' became a classic, sailed into Havana. He later wrote: ''What a world of shipping! The masts make a belt of dense forest along the edge of the city, all the ships lying head into the street, like horses at their mangers.'' Over the ensuing century, Cuba became the winter playground of Americans, a place to gamble, rumba, smoke puros and sip mojitos, the land of every vice and any trade. Havana bars advertised ''Hangover Breakfasts.'' They were much in demand. The mafia loved the island, the largest in the Caribbean; so did the American businessmen who controlled swathes of the sugar industry and much else.
 Then, a half-century ago, on Jan. 1, 1959, Fidel Castro brought down the curtain on Fulgencio Batista's dictatorship. America's cavorting-cum-commerce ceased. Miami became Cuba's second city as, over the years, hundreds of thousands fled communist rule.
 The confining shadow of Fidel's tropical curtain, on the 50th anniversary of the revolution, was captured in the emptiness before me -- of the Malecon, but even more so of the sea. I noticed over subsequent days that Cubans perched on the seafront wall rarely looked outward. When I asked Yoani Sanchez, a dissident blogger (www.desdecuba.com/generaciony), about this, she told me: ''We live turned away from the sea because it does not connect us, it encloses us. There is no movement on it. People are not allowed to buy boats because if they had boats, they would go to Florida. We are left, as one of our poets put it, with the unhappy circumstance of water at every turn.''
 It is unnatural to perceive the sea and a distant horizon as limiting. But in Cuba a lot of things are inverted, or not as they first appear. A repressive society long under a single ruler -- the ailing 82-year-old Fidel still holds Cubans in his thrall even if he formally handed the presidency to his younger brother, Raul, in 2006 -- develops a secret lexicon of survival.
 Through a labyrinth of rations, regulations, two currencies and four markets (peso, hard currency, agro and black), people make their way. Stress is rare but depression rampant in an inertia-stricken economy. Truth is layered. Look up and you see the Habana Libre, the towering hotel where Fidel briefly had his headquarters after the revolution: it began life as the Hilton. The seafront Riviera hotel, now so communist-drab it seems to reek of cabbage, once housed the rakish casino of the mobster Meyer Lansky. 
 Turning west along the seafront that first gusty day, I encountered a strange sight that summoned the United States from its tenebrous presence: a phalanx of poles, topped with snapping flags displaying a five-pointed Cuban star against a black backdrop, bearing down on the eastern facade of a boxy concrete-and-glass structure that houses the U.S. Interests Section in Havana. The flag barricade was put up to block an electronic billboard on the side of the building. In 2006, U.S. officials put political slogans on the billboard; it now transmits news not otherwise accessible to Cubans.
 This seafront tableau is laughable: the United States unreeling red-lettered strips of unread news into a sea of black flags and defiance. It captures all the fruitless paralysis of the Cuban-American confrontation, a tense stasis Barack Obama has vowed to overcome. Diplomatic relations have been severed since 1961; a U.S. trade embargo has been in place almost as long; the cold war has been over for almost two decades. To say the U.S.-Cuban relationship is anachronistic would be an understatement.
 But changing it won't be easy. As with Iran -- the only country with which noncommunication is more pronounced -- bad history, predatory past U.S. practices and the expediency for autocratic regimes of casting the United States as diabolical enemy all work against bridge-building. When, a little farther west down the Malecon, I met with Josefina Vidal, the director of the Foreign Ministry's North American department, I found her anger as vivid as her elegant purple dress.
 ''I once saw a slogan on that U.S. billboard saying Cuban women have to prostitute themselves because they do not have the resources to survive,'' she told me. ''This is totally unacceptable, a violation of the Vienna Convention!'' (The Vienna Convention of 1963 regulates consular relations.)
 Vidal continued: ''The U.S. wants to punish Cuba with its blockade. It cannot accept us the way we are. It cannot forgive us our independence. It cannot permit us to choose our own model. And now along comes Obama and says he will lift a few restrictions, but that in order to advance further Cuba must show it is making democratic changes. Well, we do not accept that Cuba has to change in order to deserve normal relations with the United States.''
 But on Havana's streets the name Obama is often uttered as if it were a shibboleth. Many people want to believe he offers a way out of the Cuban web that Fidel's infinite adroitness and intermittent ruthlessness have woven over a half-century.
 WAYNE SMITH, WHO RAN the U.S. Interests Section under the Carter administration, has observed that ''Cuba seems to have the same effect on American administrations that the full moon used to have on werewolves.'' There is something about this proximate island, so beautiful yet so remote, so failed yet so stubborn, that militates against the exercise of U.S. reason.
 It's not just the humiliation of the botched 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion, when 1,500 C.I.A.-backed Cuban exiles tried to overthrow the nascent Castro regime. It's not just the memory of the Soviet introduction in 1962 of missiles to the island that almost brought nuclear Armageddon. It's not just the traded accusations of terrorism, the surrogate conflicts of the cold war from Angola to the Americas, the downed planes, the waves of immigrants, the human rights confrontations, the espionage imbroglios or the custody battles. It's something deeper, and that something has its epicenter in Miami.
 Just before the Obama victory, I lunched in the city's Little Havana district with Alfredo Duran, a former president of the Bay of Pigs Veterans Association. Inevitably, we ate at the kitschy Versailles Restaurant, long a social hub of the Cuban-American community. Duran, who was imprisoned in Cuba for 18 months after the Bay of Pigs fiasco, is a man mellowed by age. Furious with Kennedy and the Democrats in the invasion's aftermath -- ''there was a feeling we were sacrificed, left to eat possum in the swamps around the bay'' -- he decided after the cold war that anti-Fidel vitriol was a blind alley and the trade embargo counterproductive. Fellow veterans were furious; they stripped his photo from the premises of the veterans' association.
 ''I say, 'Lift the embargo unilaterally, put the onus on Cuba,' '' Duran told me. ''If we negotiate, what do we want from them? They have very little to give.''
 As he spoke, a little ruckus erupted outside between Republicans and Democrats. Duran smiled: ''You know, the only place Cuba still arouses passions is right outside this restaurant. Yet U.S. policy toward Cuba is stuck with old issues in Florida rather than logical strategy.''
 The old Florida issues boil down to this: It's a critical swing state with a significant Cuban-American vote, and a hard line toward Fidel has been a sure-fire political proposition. Once again this year, Miami's three Cuban-American Congressional Republicans won re-election. And yet: their victory margins narrowed. Some 35 percent of the Cuban-American vote in Miami-Dade County went to Obama, a big bounce, 10 points better than John Kerry's showing in 2004. Fifty-five percent of those under 29 voted for Obama.
 Obama's victory is particularly significant because he bucked conventional wisdom on Cuba during the campaign. He lambasted Bush's ''tough talk that never yields results.'' He called for ''a new strategy'' centered on two immediate changes: the lifting of all travel restrictions for family visits (limited by Bush to one every three years) and the freeing up of family remittances (now no more than $300 a quarter for the receiving household). Obama also called for ''direct diplomacy,'' saying he would be prepared to lead it himself ''at a time and place of my choosing,'' provided U.S. interests and the ''cause of freedom for the Cuban people'' were advanced. He said his message to Fidel and Raul would be: ''If you take significant steps toward democracy, beginning with the freeing of all political prisoners, we will take steps to begin normalizing relations.''
 Three generations on from the revolution, being a Democrat is no longer equated by Cuban-Americans with being a Communist. The fixation on removing Fidel, the dreams of return and the raw anger of loss have faded. ''We have gone from the politics of passion to the politics of reality,'' Andy Gomez, an assistant provost at the University of Miami who left Cuba in 1961 at the age of 6, told me. ''We are here for the long haul. We worry about the economy, health care. Next Christmas in Havana -- that's over.''
 So could the convergence of a president who is as mestizo as countless Cubans, a new pragmatism in Miami's Little Havana and the looming passing of Cuba's revolutionary gerontocracy provide a framework for that elusive U.S.-Cuban reconciliation? Duran is hopeful. ''I'm 71, and I know I'll see the day,'' he told me. ''The day you can get in your speedboat in Coconut Grove after work and be in Havana at 9 p.m. for dinner.''
 Nonsense, Jaime Suchlicki, a conservative Cuban historian who teaches in Miami, told me. Raul is a Soviet admirer ''and no Deng Xiaoping.'' The Cuban situation -- buoyed by Chinese, Venezuelan, Russian and Iranian support -- is not desperate enough to force concessions. Every past rapprochement has turned to rancor. ''Cuba is an absolute disaster, but it will not fall apart,'' Suchlicki said. 
 Yet Cuba does stand at a fulcrum of generational shift, from those formed by Fidel to those who will hardly know him. Seizing this opportunity will require a measure of American humility. Obama has a strong sense of history and the historical moment. He would understand the deep roots of the conflict, going back to the U.S. military intervention in 1898 that left Cubans with the lingering sense that their own hard-won independence from Spain had been snatched from them. What followed were four years of direct U.S. rule and Cuba's emergence as a nearly independent republic in 1902 -- ''nearly'' because, under the Platt Amendment, the U.S. kept the right to intervene in the island's affairs. It also got Cuba to cede in perpetuity a little thing called Guantanamo Bay, a 45-square-mile area in the southeast of the island.
 ''All this left a deep frustration in the popular imagination,'' Fernando Rojas, the vice minister of culture, told me in Havana.
 It is this history that has allowed Fidel to claim that his revolution was, in effect, a second war of independence. It is this history that has made the United States the enemy of choice for Cuba long after the exigencies of cold-war confrontation vanished.
 This is the history that turns otherwise rational heads in both Washington and Havana, as if the full moon had got to them. My impression is that Obama has the cool temperament that can factor the charge of this past -- similar to the heavy legacy of the C.I.A.-organized 1953 coup in Iran -- into his diplomacy. Cuba is certainly ready for a change it can believe in.
 LEALTAD (LOYALTY) STREET runs from the Malecon down through the densely populated district called Centro Habana. I first went there at night. The city is dimly lighted, but one of Fidel's achievements, along with an impressive education system and universal health care, is security. It might be said that's because there is very little to steal, but that would be uncharitable. The revolution, anything but puritanical, has nonetheless instilled a certain ethical rigor.
 A residential street, Lealtad beckoned me with its silhouettes lurking in doorways, its clatter of dominoes being banged on tables, its glimpses through grated windows of lush interior courtyards, its old men playing cards in high-ceilinged living rooms of brocaded furniture and sagging upholstery, its melancholy. As I wandered, I stumbled on a bar called Las Alegrias -- Joys. What I saw struck me with the force of a vision. Under harsh fluorescent lights, drinking shots of rum, were a white man with a bulbous red nose pickled by drink, a black man with unfocused eyes and a black woman with head bowed, all of them at a distance from one another and seemingly inhabiting an Edward Hopper painting where each lonely element etched another detail of despair. The feeling of being transported is very Cuban: Hopper's ''Nighthawks'' was painted in 1942.
 I resolved to return to Lealtad in an attempt to understand the despair at Joys, but also in the conviction that the secret lexicon of 50-year dictatorships can be read only in the details of daily life. Secrecy and obfuscation are the lifeblood of such regimes. They alone preserve the mysticism that absolute leadership requires, allowing an aging man with severe intestinal problems to remain Zeus on Olympus. It's not for nothing that the whereabouts of Fidel, who has not been seen in public since he fell ill in July 2006, are an official secret.
 The next day I came back and, dodging boys playing baseball with a ball made from tightly rolled paper, stopped at a chicken-egg-fish store with nothing in it. Antonio Rodriguez, 50, the affable, bald Afro-Cuban running it, explained to me the mechanics of rationing, in which he is an often-immobile cog. Every month, each Cuban is allocated 10 eggs (the first five at 0.15 pesos each, the second five at 0.90 pesos); a pound of chicken at 0.70 pesos; a pound of fish with its head at 0.35 pesos (or 11 ounces without the head); and half a pound of an ersatz mince at 0.35 pesos a pound. It's hardly worth converting these sums; they're trifling. Suffice to say that, at 25 pesos to the dollar, you get the whole lot for no more than 25 cents.
 That may sound like a steal, but there are catches. Rodriguez, after 17 years at the store, where the broken cash register is of prerevolutionary vintage and the antique refrigerator of Soviet provenance, earns $15.40 a month. The average monthly salary is about $20. I asked him when some chicken or eggs might arrive. Beats me, he said. As many as 15 days a month, he's idle, waiting for something to be delivered so he can announce it on the blackboard behind him and get to work crossing off ''sales'' in his clients' frayed ration books. Rodriguez pointed to a man outside. ''That guy standing on the corner, and me working, there's no real difference,'' he said. ''We get paid almost nothing to spend the day talking.''
 Luiz Jorrin, the man in question, approached. ''This is all due to the U.S. blockade,'' he said, pointing a finger at me and using the exaggerated term that Cubans favor for the embargo. ''Look at your financial crisis! Maybe you'll get over it with time. Well, we'll get over this with time. I don't believe in capitalism. Look what it did in Africa and Latin America. It's destructive.''
 This was too much for Javier Aguirre, a slim fellow who helps Rodriguez. ''We're wrecked, and after three hurricanes, we're even more wrecked,'' he said. ''I just don't believe in the system. Give me Switzerland! Of all the Cubans who have gone to the United States, how many want to come back?''
 The question prompted a silence. Aguirre, it transpired, tried twice to escape, only to be caught, once by the Cubans and once by the U.S. Coast Guard. Under the current ''wet foot, dry foot'' policy, most Cubans who reach U.S. soil are allowed to stay, while most intercepted at sea are repatriated. Go figure.
 Now 29, Aguirre, an aspiring artist, is waiting. Cubans are used to waiting. Along with baseball and quiet desperation, it's the national sport. They talk; they joke at the Beckett play that is their lives; they tap their fingers to the beat of drums and maracas. They lament the billions of dollars of damage caused in recent months by Hurricanes Gustav, Ike and Paloma; an offer of U.S. assistance was rebuffed. At least, they laugh, there's no traffic problem.
 The little storefront exchange was typical, I found, in its surprising openness, in its mention of the U.S. embargo as the source of misery and in its vindicating reference to the global economy's collapse. Cuba, it has to be said, is one of the very few places the Dow's meltdown has scarcely touched. But tumbling oil prices may affect Venezuelan and Russian largess over time, and slumping European economies may hit tourism. Meanwhile, Cubans go on trying to make sense of the senseless.
 ''Obama should ask Congress to lift the blockade for 90 days after the hurricanes,'' Rodriguez suggested.
 ''We're always asking for the kindness of strangers,'' Aguirre retorted. ''This is not communism or capitalism, it's a Cuban mess.''
 The more I learned of the centralized Cuban economy, the more that seemed a fair summary. Cuba has two currencies, one for communism and one for a limited, state-dominated capitalism. The pesos that people get their salaries in are essentially good for nothing but rationed or undesirable items. By contrast, the convertible dollar-pegged pesos known as ''CUCs'' (pronounced ''kooks'') are good for international products. Pass a dimly lighted peso store and you might see a bicycle tire, a yellowing brassiere and a set of plastic spoons. Pass a convertible-peso store and you will see cellphones, Jameson whiskey and Heineken in a bright, air-conditioned environment.
 As a result, many Cubans spend their lives scrambling to get in on the convertible-peso economy, which largely depends on getting access to foreign visitors. A highly qualified electrical engineer opts to work in a cigar factory so he can hawk Havana cigars to tourists. Others offer to be their guides. Whatever goods can be sneaked out of state-run businesses are good for black-market sale. Cellphones -- recently permitted in what was portrayed as a liberalizing measure by Raul -- cost about $110. That is half a year's salary for most Cubans. A gallon of gas goes for about $6, or nearly a third of an average monthly salary. No wonder Cubans see access to the CUC universe of tourists as salvation.
 A kind of economic apartheid exists. People are stuck in a regulation-ridden halfway house. They want to escape the socialist world of Rodriguez's store for the capitalist world of the mini-Cancun on the Varadero peninsula east of Havana, a hotel-littered ghetto of white sand and whiter Scandinavians snapping up Che Guevara T-shirts without worrying too much about what Che wrought on Lealtad Street.
 THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT gave me a courteous welcome. I was escorted to a few official meetings, but otherwise left without a minder (as far as I could see) to do what I wished. One official stop was with Elena Alvarez, who was 15 when Fidel's revolution came and now, at 65, works as a top official at the Ministry of Economics. She tried to make sense for me of the voodoo economics I'd seen.
 Here's what she wanted me to grasp. Cuba, at the time of the revolution, was ''one of the most unjust, unequal and exploited societies on earth.'' Illiteracy was running up to 40 percent, a quarter of the best land was in U.S. hands, a corrupt bourgeoisie lorded it over everyone else. Fidel's initial objective was a more-just society, but U.S. pressure radicalized his revolution and pushed it toward all-out socialism within the Soviet camp.
 Alvarez reeled off some numbers. There were 6,000 doctors in Cuba at the time of the revolution; there are now close to 80,000 for a population of 11.3 million, one of the highest per-capita rates in the world. The U.S. embargo has cost Cuba about $200 billion in real terms. When the Berlin Wall crumbled, 80 percent of Cuba's international trade was with Soviet-bloc countries. About 98 percent of oil came from them. Back to the Communist bloc states, at inflated prices, went Cuba's sugar and rum.
 ''We've had to reinsert ourselves in the global economy twice in 30 years, once in 1960 and again in 1990,'' Alvarez said.
 O.K., I said, that shows some resilience, but when the Soviet Union collapsed, why didn't Cuba do what Moscow's other satellites did: take down totalitarianism, become a market economy and set people free? The real totalitarianism, she countered, was Batista's. Cuba now has different values. Despite scarcities, attributable in large part to the embargo, it's a society that wants to protect everyone. The rationing system guarantees that all citizens have a minimum. Everyone gets low-cost food at work. Free health care and education mean a $20 monthly salary is the wrong way to view the quality of Cuban life. Going to a market economy in 1990 would have meant wholesale factory closures, as in East Germany, and 35 percent unemployment. ''We decided we had to protect our workers,'' Alvarez said. ''We have another philosophy.''
 That ''philosophy'' has produced results. According to the World Health Organization, life expectancy for men and women in Cuba is 76 and 80 years, respectively, on par with the U.S. The comparative figures in Haiti are 59 and 63, and in the Dominican Republic they are 66 and 74. The probability of dying before the age of 5 is 7 per 1,000 live births in Cuba -- nearly as good as the U.S. figure -- compared with 80 per 1,000 live births in Haiti and 29 in the Dominican Republic. Illiteracy has been eliminated. United Nations statistics show 93.7 percent of Cuban children complete high school, far more than in the United States or elsewhere in the Caribbean.
 That raises the question: Why educate people so well and then deny them access to the Internet, travel and the opportunity to apply their skills? Why give them a great education and no life? Why not at least offer a Chinese or Vietnamese model, with a market economy under one-party rule?
 Alvarez said there was some ''space for the market.'' She insisted, ''We are not fundamentalist.'' But the bottom line, of course, is that the authorities are scared: opening the door to capitalism on an island 90 miles from Florida is very different from doing that in Asia.
 In the so-called Special Period, initiated in the 1990s, Cuba did open to foreign investment in sectors like nickel and tourism, allowed tourists in, introduced the convertible peso and began putting more farmland in private hands. But it stopped there. Just how much land is now private is disputed, although one thing is clear: not enough to prevent Cuba from having to import more than $1.6 billion worth of food a year. Those imports, in a development remarkable even by upside-down Cuban standards, have included sugar. Domestic production has collapsed.
 So I put it to Alvarez: At the half-century mark, with Fidel fading, was it worth persevering with a revolution that has left Cuba with dilapidated buildings, deserted highways and a need to import sugar?
 ''The revolution has been a success,'' Alvarez said. ''It overthrew a tyrannical regime. We got our national sovereignty. We got our pride. We survived aggression by the most powerful country in the world for 50 years. We preserved the essence of what Fidel fought for.''
 But did he really wage guerrilla war in the Sierra Maestra mountains so that countless talented Cubans might sit idle, plotting means to get out?
 The challenges were great, Alvarez said, but Cuba would again prove Miami wrong. She pointed to joint-venture oil exploration off the northern coast and a growing ''knowledge economy'' that has produced patented vaccines and medicines sold throughout the world. Cuba would now export services, like that of the 30,000 medical personnel it sent to Venezuela in an innovative barter deal bringing in 90,000 barrels of oil daily.
 ''We are an example to others,'' she said, ''an example to all those looking for an alternative to capitalism.''
 I did sense something hard to quantify, a kind of socialist conscience, particularly among doctors. When I met Dr. Verena Muzio, the head of the vaccine division at the Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology -- another official stop -- she said her commitment to the revolution's achievements outweighed the knowledge ''that I could go to Chicago and earn $300,000 a year.'' Her salary is $40 a month.
 At the Latin American School of Medicine, founded a decade ago to educate doctors unable to afford school in other countries in the Americas, Dr. Juan Carrizo, the rector, spoke of the universal right to health as the new humanist banner of the Cuban revolution: out with Angolan guerrillas, in with the medical brigade. Among the students are more than 100 U.S. citizens. Pasha Jackson, 26, an African-American from South Central Los Angeles, told me: ''I came here because I could get an education for free for just being me. I feel more valued here than where I grew up. And when I finish, I'm going to go back to my community and bring that same philosophy.''
 These young U.S. medical students have joined a growing number of foreigners, tourists and businesspeople. Sherritt International, a Canadian natural-resources company, has made major investments in nickel mining and oil. Sol Melia, the Spanish hotel operator, has opened a number of properties. Tour buses are a frequent sight, ferrying groups that take in Hemingway's Havana bars (La Floridita and La Bodeguita del Medio) and the Che memorial in Santa Clara before heading back to the beach. Although this invasion has brought Cubans more contact with foreigners, its impact has been limited by the fact that the Cuban government does rigorous background checks on any job seekers in the international sector. Over all, most tourists seem happy with sun, sand, rum and cigars -- and to heck with totalitarian politics.
 At a time when Hugo Chavez's Venezuela has replied to Fidel's ''Patria o Muerte'' with its own ''Socialismo o Muerte''; and Evo Morales is pushing Bolivia toward socialism; and Steven Soderbergh's epic-length ''Che'' is about to hit American theaters, it's hard to argue the revolution has lost all its glow -- especially with Wall Street bloodied. A moderate Latin left that is friendly with the Castros, most conspicuously President Lula da Silva in Brazil, has also emerged. But Fidel claimed he wanted to free Cubans from oppression. Instead, his revolution has oppressed them.
 I FOUND HECTOR PALACIOS at his cluttered apartment in the leafy Vedado district of Havana. He was thrown in prison in 2003 along with 75 other dissidents charged with subversion and collaboration with the United States. Sentenced to 25 years, he was released in late 2006 for health reasons. But 55 of those arrested are still in captivity, among the more than 220 political prisoners in Cuba.
 ''My crime was simple: thinking that the government has to change from totalitarianism,'' Palacios told me.
 He's a big man, and when he talked about his cramped cell and isolation, his eyes darted here and there, and he began to sweat. The memory of what was his third spell in prison was still harrowing. Palacios, the leader of the banned All United opposition group, was an organizer of the Varela Project, a petition calling for a referendum on democratic change. Orchestrated by another prominent dissident, Oswaldo Paya, the movement brought ripples of a Cuban spring before the 2003 clampdown.
 Palacios, 65, has traveled since his release to the United States, where, last May, he met with Obama in Miami. He asked Obama to show flexibility. He urged him to allow wealthy Cuban-Americans to send money to dissidents. ''Obama is the new element,'' Palacios told me. ''He's ready to talk to anyone. As with our aging government, the hard-line generation of Cuban-Americans is dying out. Significant change is possible within two years.''
 ''Why do you stay here?'' I asked.
 ''I stay because I am a patriot.''
 That's not the official view. Dissidents are routinely called ''traitors to the homeland.'' Palacios showed me a copy of a congratulatory letter he sent to Obama on Nov. 4. It ends, ''With the hope that I will be heard and confidence that your mandate will bring the renewal that eliminates the obstacles preventing us from putting an end to the tyranny suffered by our people.'' A restoration of the battered moral authority of the United States could have a significant impact in Cuba, Palacios said.
 Cuba's dissidents are marginalized. The press is muzzled. The print organ of the regime, Granma, named after the cabin cruiser that bore Fidel, Raul, Che and their followers from Mexican exile to Cuba in 1956, is a study in Orwellian officialese. State television is a turgid propaganda machine. Cuba can show ''The Lives of Others'' at its annual Havana Film Festival, where a few thousand people see it, but that remarkable study of the all-hearing Stasi in totalitarian East Germany would never be shown on national television. Too many Cubans might want the movie renamed ''The Lives of Us.''
 But of course Cuba is not totalitarian East Germany. Fidel has been nothing if not a brilliant puppet master. He once said that some revolutionary fighters ''let their enthusiasm for the cause overwhelm their tactical decision-making.'' Not Fidel, whose training as a lawyer has been evident in his mastery of maneuver and brinkmanship, not least in his dealings with the United States. There have been hundreds of executions, especially in the early years, but he has never been a bloodthirsty dictator, a Caribbean Ceausescu. Nor has he tried, in the style of some despots, to sweep the past away; he has merely let it wither.
 ''There's a very intelligent repression here, a scientific repression,'' Yoani Sanchez, the dissident whose blog is now translated into 12 languages, told me. ''They have killed us as citizens, so they do not have to kill us physically. Our own police is in our brains, censoring us before we utter a critical idea.''
 At 33, Sanchez is half Palacios' age. She represents something new: digital dissent. The authorities seem unsure how to deal with it. Sanchez, a slight and vivacious woman, started her blog in 2006. It was, she told me, ''an exorcism, a virtual catharsis.''
 ''Who is last in line for a toaster?'' she asked in one blog entry this year, noting that a ban on sales of computers and DVD players had been lifted but toasters would not be freely sold until 2010. Now her biting dissections of the woes of Cuban life have a wide international following -- to the point that ''the intelligence services know if they touch me there will be an explosion online.''
 Still, they harass her. When she won Spain's prestigious Ortega y Gasset prize for digital journalism in April, she was prevented from going to collect the award. She would like to take up an invitation from New York University, but permission has been denied without explanation.
 I asked if she was optimistic about change. She said she was pessimistic in the short term because ''apathy has entered our bloodstream, and a lot of people are just waiting for a bunch of leaders over 70 to die.'' Democracy, national reconciliation and change demand a new civic involvement, not apathy. But she was optimistic in the long term because we ''are a creative, capable people, with no religious, ethnic or other conflict, who have developed an allergy to what we have: a totalitarian system.''
 Sanchez looked at me -- an intense, intelligent, brown-eyed gaze with humor twinkling near its surface. We were seated in the gardens of the Hotel Nacional, looking out over the Malecon to that empty sea. Here, I thought, is Cuba's future, a Blogostroika, if only the repressive gerontocracy would let it bloom; a Blogostroika that will fill that sea with bright vessels.
 ''You know,'' Sanchez said, ''when a nation gets on its knees before a man, it's all over. When a man decides how much rice I eat a month, or whether or not I can leave a country, that country is sick. This man is human. He commits errors. How can he have such power? Like a lot of people of my generation, I have willed myself to stop thinking about him, as a therapy. I think there will be relief when Fidel dies. We will breathe out. The mystical and symbolic weight of his presence is very heavy, for his opponents and even for his supporters. It's hard to right his errors while he's still there.''
 I think Sanchez is right. Only after Mao's death could China unshackle itself by officially determining that he was ''70 percent right and 30 percent wrong.'' Perhaps Cuba will come down somewhere like that on Fidel -- say 75-25 -- and move on.
 While I was in Cuba, everyone I spoke to referred to Fidel as ''Comandante,'' even though Raul formally became commander in chief when he assumed the presidency. Rambling, almost daily ''Reflexiones del Companero Fidel'' -- signed commentaries on everything from capitalism to the U.S. election -- appear in Granma, pored over like Kremlin utterances of old.
 Fidel published a book last month called ''Peace in Colombia.'' Its presentation, the occasion for a collective genuflection by hundreds of guests in a large hall, merited hour after hour of coverage on national TV. At the gathering, I ran into Randy Alonso, host of a TV news show and the director of the information office of the Council of State, the main governing body. I asked him where Fidel is. ''He's lucid, but in a secret place,'' Alonso said. ''If he wants to reveal it, he will.''
 It's hard in any circumstances for a 77-year-old to be an innovator. But for Raul, with his far-more charismatic brother looking over his shoulder, it must be near impossible. No wonder Raul, the former defense minister who hates the limelight, has appeared faltering. He has freed up cellphones (at a price), allowed Cubans into international hotels and intimated that some salaries might be paid in convertible pesos or even be tied to performance. But in essence all he has done in two and a half years is tinker. Perhaps that's not surprising. He has a vested interest in the existing system: the military runs conglomerates, like Gaviota, that control most of the tourism industry.
 ''We are at the fading of an era, and it is fading into the unknown,'' Juan Carlos Espinosa, a political scientist at Florida International University, said.
 In Miami, I caught up with Giselle Palacios, Hector Palacios' 23-year-old daughter, who managed to get out of Cuba a few months ago, having been thrown out of the University of Havana because of her father's activities. She told me she is still in shock. She has realized that the place she was living in is not the real world. There are things happening in Cuba, she said, that don't happen anywhere else. You carry that knowledge inside you, and you feel lonely.
 ''Revolution was supposed to mean equal opportunity for all, but it has become a word the Castro brothers own,'' she said. ''Young Cubans don't believe in the Castros' version of revolution. They don't believe in a world where the Internet is forbidden and your whole world is Cuba with the rest blocked out.''
 ''Will you stay in Miami?'' I asked.
 ''No, I want to go back one day when other jobs are possible. I think I will always be lonely here. I want to help democracy emerge.''
 WHEN I RETURNED to Lealtad Street, I found a flurry of activity: the chicken had arrived! Rodriguez, in his green overalls, had the news up on his blackboard. He was unpacking frozen chicken legs and thighs. Chicken breast is available only on the convertible-peso market. He held up the box with a big smile. It said, ''Made in U.S.A.''
 Since 2000, when Congress bowed to the farm lobby, it has been legal to sell food and agricultural products to Cuba. That means everything from chicken legs to telephone poles. At the Miami airport I had run into Randal Wilson, who was just back from Havana, where he was trying to sell Alabaman wine. ''They seem to prefer my blueberry wine, just loved that,'' he told me. ''You know, Alabama is very big on trade with Cuba.''
 In fact, the United States is now the largest exporter of food to Cuba, earning upward of $600 million this year. It's among Cuba's five biggest trading partners. (The others are Venezuela, China, Spain and Canada.) So much for the embargo; it's as arbitrary as the wet-foot, dry-foot policy toward Cubans trying to escape. While America took in hundreds of millions of dollars from Cuba, it sent back 2,086 sea-borne refugees in fiscal 2008. Principle has nothing to do with current Cuban policy. It's just an incoherent mess.
 I asked Aguirre, the young would-be escapee working with Rodriguez, if he understood U.S. policy. ''It's like the situation here, you have to understand it because it is what it is,'' he said. ''I try not to think too much, I just talk about girls, baseball, whatever.''
 I looked down the street, at the kids playing, a guy selling lighter fluid, the carved doors, the extraordinary baroque flourishes on the three- and four-story buildings. A gentleness inhabits Cuba, the island that Columbus, landing in 1492, called ''the most beautiful land that human eyes have ever seen.'' It is the gentleness of time passing very slowly.
 The absence of visual clutter -- no ads, no brands, no neon signs -- leaves the mind at peace. Fidel's colossal stubbornness has delivered a singular aesthetic, striking in the age of globalized malls. I found myself thinking of a phrase of Pico Iyer's in the excellent ''Reader's Companion to Cuba,'' edited by Alan Ryan: ''Cuba catches my heart and then makes me count the cost of that enchantment.''
 That cost is high. Fifty yards down the street, I talked to Felix Morales, 43, who runs another chicken-egg-fish store. I asked if there was any rivalry with Rodriguez. Morales laughed. ''How can there be rivalry if we both receive and hand out the same thing?'' he said. ''The only difference is he's black and I'm white!''
 Morales told me everyone was aching for some improvement. He said he would like to work and see the fruit of his labors. He was wearing a T-shirt saying ''Canada.'' Did he want to go there? Two women in the store burst out laughing. Of course Morales wanted to, of course they wanted to, who wouldn't?
 Not Jorge Martinez, who runs the community health center near Morales's store, a place where doctors treat everything from alcoholism to depression. ''Fidel is the man of the century,'' he told me.
 I walked into a little restaurant called Asahi, one of the so-called paladares, independent, family-run enterprises, usually with three or four tables. Jose Marticorena, its owner, told me he acquired his state license a dozen years ago, but now it's difficult to obtain such a license. His father, Miguel, fought alongside Fidel and was rewarded after 1959 with this house. Later he worked in the merchant marine. A freezer he brought back from Japan had ''Asahi'' inscribed on it, after the Japanese beer: hence the name.
 Marticorena can charge what he wants for food, but his capacity is set at 12 people, and he pays various taxes. ''We have a lot of dysfunctional things,'' he told me, ''but nobody's dying of hunger or wanting for basic medical help. I was able to do something, and I feel fulfilled by it. My wife is a dentist, she loves to cook. We have two kids. We place a lot of hope in Obama, we believe he will free things up.''
 With that, he took out a little digital camera, set it to video and started filming.
 ''What do you think of the food?'' he asked.
 ''Very good,'' I said.
 ''And whom do you work for?''
 ''The New York Times.''
 Even on Lealtad, a half-century after the revolution, capitalist public-relations instincts are not far below the surface.
 TOWARD THE END of my stay, I traveled down to Santiago de Cuba in the southeast of the island. This is mythical territory: the land of the 1860s uprising against the Spanish; the site of the decisive U.S. intervention in 1898 that stole the fruits of that uprising; the city where Fidel and a band of followers attacked the Moncada Barracks on July 26, 1953 (61 dead among more than 100 insurgents); the home of the Sierra Maestra, where Fidel and Che waged guerrilla war between 1956 and 1958. It is here that the 50th anniversary will be formally celebrated on Jan. 1, although the precise location in Santiago is still secret. Whether Fidel will appear is also unknown. Most people say no.
 A historian, Octavio Ambruster, showed me around the Moncada museum. The mustard yellow barracks were converted into a school after the revolution. The museum occupies a few rooms. Gruesome photographs abound of the slain in the July 26 attack. Most were tortured before execution. A front-page headline the following day in the Batista-era paper, Ataya, got it wrong: ''Fidel Castro is dead.''
 In fact he slipped away, only to be captured a few days later in the mountains. He was brought to trial and imprisoned, but not before he made a now legendary declaration: ''Condemn me, it has no importance. History will absolve me.''
 Will it? I don't think so, but it may be gentler on him than the ruinous state of Cuba would suggest. Fidel is a brilliant, romantic and towering figure; as such, like his country, he tends to enchant even as the cost of that enchantment mounts. Ambruster told me that Fidel always called Jose Marti, the hero of the independence struggle against Spain, ''the intellectual author of the Moncada assault.'' Framing his revolution as being about independence -- patria more than socialismo -- and casting that independence as being above all from the United States, has been one of Fidel's most ingenious ideas.
 And how will history judge U.S. policy toward Fidel's Cuba? Badly, I think, especially since the end of the cold war. If the embargo had come down then, back in 1989, I doubt the regime would have survived. But the grudges were too deep, and a mistake was made. Today the policy makes little sense. The United States dislikes Chavez but maintains diplomatic relations with Venezuela. I think Obama should add to the measures he has already announced by offering to open full diplomatic relations with Cuba immediately.
 That would put pressure on Cuba and, if the offer were accepted, allow face-to-face negotiations to begin at a senior level. At these talks, Obama should not belabor democratic principles, at least not immediately, but should insist on the freeing of all political prisoners as a first step toward beginning to lift the embargo. The United States is not the European Union, which just normalized relations with Havana, although hundreds are still held in Cuban prisons for what they think.
 Progress will not be easy. Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, one of the re-elected Miami Republicans, told me, ''We are very united, we will win the fights in Congress, and we will stop any moves to open commercial relations, trade financing or tourism with Cuba.'' But Tony Lake, a senior foreign-policy adviser to Obama during the campaign, said, ''With the new Democratic majority in Congress, and some clear Cuban gestures on human rights, you could get changes to Helms-Burton,'' the legislation that has determined the shape of Cuban policy since 1996. Then the ball would be rolling with a momentum that the passing of generations should sustain.
 Cuba is some way down Obama's priority list. But early in his presidency, another Democratic president, Jimmy Carter, did something that changed views of him in the hemisphere: he negotiated, against all the odds, the transfer of sovereignty over the Panama Canal to Panama. It seems clear enough that a breakthrough of similar proportions with Cuba would bring a major reconciliation with Latin America.
 FROM SANTIAGO, I drove out to the town of Guantanamo. There were no road signs and no road markings. Cubans say they are waiting for Obama to send paint. I passed tractor-trailers crammed with people: Chinese buses imported by Raul have not yet met needs. At Guantanamo slogans abounded: ''Our duty is to be victorious'' and ''This is the first trench in the anti-imperialist war.'' From a hill, I could see the control tower of the U.S. naval base glimmering in the distance.
 The land before me, and this farther stretch of empty sea, had been carved from Cuba at its independence. And now Guantanamo had become synonymous with some of the most egregious acts of Bush's war on terror, acts that have tarnished America's name. There have been other moments of American dishonor over the years in Latin America, from Chile to Argentina, where the U.S. told generals it would look the other way. 
 Yes, Fidel's communist revolution, at 50, has carried a terrible price for his people, dividing the Cuban nation, imprisoning part of it and bringing economic catastrophe. But as I gazed from Cuban hills at Guantanamo, and considered Obama's incoming administration, I thought the wages of guilt might just have found a fine enough balance for good sense at last to prevail. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Las Alegrias bar on Lealtad Street in Havana. Its name translates as ''Joys,'' but it has the ambience of an Edward Hopper painting. Previous pages: A street in the district of la Habana Vieja. (pg.MM44 and 46)
The Ministry of Interior Defense Building. The slogan under the image of Che Guevara says, ''Forever Onward Toward Victory.'' (pg.MM49)
 The Malecon in the capital. A dissident blogger said the sea ''does not connect us, it encloses us.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMBROISE TeZENAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (68%); WRITERS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



252 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE HILL; Pg. 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Not All New Democrats Rode an Obama Tide

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House will be awash in Democrats next year, but they did not all ride in on an Obama tide.
 A new look at Congressional election results shows that in most of the 71 more competitive House races, the Democrats ran stronger than President-elect Barack Obama did. 
 The findings, produced by the National Committee for an Effective Congress, a group that favors the election of Democrats, illustrate that the party's success in strengthening its House majority owes as much to strong, independent campaigns in one district after another as to Mr. Obama's presence at the top of the ticket. 
 Even though the Democrats were doubtless helped by his candidacy in many states, the findings could prove significant for both Republicans and Democrats two years from now.
 For Republicans, it means the two dozen Democrats who took away Republican seats were not necessarily beneficiaries of an Obama phenomenon, making the newcomers less vulnerable in the midterm elections and complicating Republican efforts to regain the lost ground.
 Past election surges like the Republican waves in 1980 and 1994 produced victories by lackluster candidates who were carried along by powerful political tides, leading to their defeat in the next election cycle. That does not appear to have happened in 2008. 
 ''I don't think there was a lot of deadwood washed up on the beach this time,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, a nonpartisan analyst of Congressional races. ''It reflects the strength of the candidates and their resources.''
 The ability of the House candidates to run ahead of Mr. Obama has potential significance for the strengthened Democratic majority in Congress and for the incoming president as well.
 Democrats who were able to establish their own political identity might not feel compelled to always vote hand-in-hand with the new administration, freeing them to vote independently if they see some daylight between their constituents and the Obama administration. To some degree, House Democrats will remain free agents.
 Democratic officials play down this potential for tension, saying the newly elected Democrats and Mr. Obama are on the same page, particularly when it comes to the economy. And many of the Democrats who won in moderate and Republican leaning districts emphasized a desire to work with Republicans and reduce partisan tensions -- a main theme of the Obama campaign as well.
 ''On the core issues, I think that there is a great convergence of positions,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 He ticked off economic recovery, the need for health care changes and protection of Social Security from privatization as common ground between new House Democrats and the new White House.
 But with new Democrats arriving from formerly Republican territory in Virginia, North Carolina, Alabama, Florida, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and Nevada, there are bound to be some divisions. ''Obviously on some of the other issues, especially some of the social issues, there is not as much overlap,'' Mr. Van Hollen acknowledged.
 Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. Rothenberg and other experts say Democrats would not have been able to make the gains they did without the backdrop of the Obama campaign and an engaged electorate, energized by the highly competitive Democratic primaries.
 ''I do think that our candidates across the board benefited from the energy and the excitement of the Obama campaign,'' Mr. Van Hollen said. ''But clearly some of our candidates had to go above and beyond that and carve out a political identity separate from the national campaign.''
 That would be the case in the Idaho race won by Walt Minnick, a Democrat, and in Alabama, where Bobby Bright, the Democratic mayor of Montgomery, was elected. In both districts, the voters went for the Republican presidential candidate, Senator John McCain. 
 But Mr. Bright's victory is also an example of how Mr. Obama provided a boost to Democrats, even though he might not have carried the district. Lawmakers and analysts said Mr. Bright probably could not have won without significant help from a strong turnout by African-American voters motivated by Mr. Obama's candidacy. They helped put Mr. Bright over the top.
 Mr. Obama clearly was factor in defeating Republicans like Chris Shays of Connecticut by running ahead of the successful Democrat in that race, Jim Himes. He also outperformed another Democratic winner Steve Driehaus of Ohio, in his challenge against Representative Steve Chabot, a Republican. Mr. Chabot had always before been able to hold off Democrats in a Cincinnati-area district with a significant percentage of African-American voters.
 Mr. Obama and the Democratic candidates who picked up two seats in Michigan ran about neck-and-neck; voters there may have been driven by the battered economy to pick new leadership. In places like Florida, Republicans had a hand in beating themselves by getting caught in personal scandals, and the presidential race was less of a factor.
 By and large, House Democrats showed an ability to succeed on their own. They might want to remember that lesson as they look toward 2010, a midterm election season that could be treacherous for the newcomers, depending on how events unfold in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); BEACHES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR AN EFFECTIVE CONGRESS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



253 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Revamping Aid to Pakistan Is Expected in Bush Report

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is preparing to present President-elect Barack Obama with a lengthy, classified strategy review aimed at reversing the gains that militants have made in destabilizing Afghanistan and Pakistan.
 The review contains an array of options, including telling Pakistan's military that billions of dollars in American aid will depend on the military's being reconfigured to effectively fight militants. That proposal amounts to a tacit acknowledgment that roughly $10 billion in military aid provided to Pakistan as ''reimbursements'' for its efforts to root out militant groups has largely been wasted.
 The payments have been the source of increasing criticism on Capitol Hill and from independent review groups, which have concluded that Pakistan diverted much of the money to build up its forces against India.
 Revamping the aid to the military was part of a three-month study of what has gone wrong in the seven-year war along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. The study calls for a new and broadly regional approach to insurgencies that move freely across the mountainous border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
 In the short term, it calls for continued covert strikes into Pakistani territory from Afghanistan, though the American military has been reluctant to repeat the kind of ground attack that led to an open exchange of fire with Pakistani border forces in September. 
 The report, which is expected to be presented to Mr. Obama's top national security advisers in the next week or two, was the product of a highly unusual strategy review that was begun in mid-September, just four months before President Bush leaves office. 
 ''We've gone seven long years proclaiming that Pakistan was an ally and that it was doing everything we asked in the war on terror,'' said one senior official involved in drafting the report. ''And the truth is that $10 billion later, they still don't have the basic capacity for counterinsurgency operations. What we are telling Obama and his people is that has to be reversed.'' 
 As a war that Mr. Bush once believed he had won came back to life in 2005 and 2006, the White House began a series of strategic reassessments, the most recent one reporting in the fall of 2006, just before the forced resignation of Donald H. Rumsfeld as secretary of defense. 
 But those past studies looked primarily at the dynamics in Afghanistan. The current one, headed by the White House war czar, Lt. Gen. Douglas Lute, took a far broader view. The drafts prepared for the incoming Obama administration suggest that the United States has never focused sufficiently on nation-building, jobs creation, construction of schools and roads, and, most important, pushing the Pakistani government to focus on counterterrorism and counterinsurgency.
 It also urges Mr. Obama to take a far more regional approach to the problem, something he has indicated in speeches he is inclined to do.
 ''The Pashtun tribes treat these countries as one territory, and we have to begin to do something similar,'' one official familiar with the report said, declining to speak on the record because the contents of the report are confidential. 
 The report includes options, not ''recommendations,'' so that Mr. Obama would not be put in the position of endorsing or rejecting Mr. Bush's suggested policies. It was completed just before the terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India's commercial capital, last month, and the reaction to those events is likely to complicate some of the central options even before they are handed off to Mr. Obama. 
 Though Pakistani officials regularly promised Mr. Bush, his intelligence chiefs and top American military officials that they would rout Al Qaeda and other militants from their sanctuary in Pakistan's tribal areas, mountains of intelligence suggest that the country was playing both sides, financing the Taliban even while fighting them. The group accused of the Mumbai attacks, Lashkar-e-Taiba, was essentially the creation of the Pakistani intelligence services, as a proxy to fight in Kashmir against India.
 Now, with the strong possibility that India will strike back for the Mumbai attacks, many in the Pakistani military are expected to argue that they were prudent to keep their forces primarily arrayed against India, rather than hunting down Al Qaeda and other militants.
 ''The real danger here is that what happened in Mumbai is gong to reinforce all the instincts to focus on India,'' said one official familiar with the contents of the strategy review. ''It worsens their paranoia.''
 As recently as 2006, Mr. Bush would speak regularly of eventual ''victory'' in Afghanistan, as he did in Iraq. He is leaving office declaring that the so-called military surge in Iraq was successful, and with a status of forces agreement that calls for the withdrawal of the bulk of the American force over the next two years. But he has said little about Afghanistan, where the fighting has worsened, and the strategy review was premised on intelligence assessments that said that the United States was not losing the war, but was in danger of losing ground. 
 Several members of the strategy review, notably David J. Kilcullen, an Australian counterinsurgency expert, have publicly offered a significantly grimmer view. Mr. Kilcullen told senior officials before he left a State Department post that the United States could begin to lose the war soon if strategy was not reversed. He has advocated working to secure major population centers rather than using NATO troops to chase the Taliban around the Afghan countryside.
 A senior aide to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Eliot Cohen, also joined the panel, along with a top marine general and a number of officials from the intelligence agencies.
 Asked about the study, a White House spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said only: ''We are concluding our review. We intend to pass it to the new team, since most policy adaptations would take place on their watch. This is another part of our efforts to ensure a smooth transition.''
 The tone of the new report, officials familiar with it say, is in line with arguments made over the past year by Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, who has agreed to remain in his post under Mr. Obama. He has made clear in an article he wrote for a forthcoming issue of the journal Foreign Affairs that the kind of military victory Mr. Bush once spoke of, the military crippling of militants in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, is not the way to think about the future of the conflict. 
 ''Over the long term, the United States cannot kill or capture its way to victory,'' Mr. Gates wrote. ''Where possible, what the military calls kinetic operations should be subordinated to measures aimed at promoting better governance, economic programs that spur development, and efforts to address the grievances among the discontented, from whom the terrorists recruit. It will take the patient accumulation of quiet successes over a long time to discredit and defeat extremist movements and their ideologies.'' 
 Yet the problem in Pakistan has been getting the military to accept help from the United States, which it suspects is tilting toward India and may harbor plans to seize Pakistan's nuclear arsenal if the government in Islamabad collapses. In Afghanistan, the problem is incompetence, corruption, and the inability of President Hamid Karzai to extend his control of the country significantly beyond the capital, Kabul.
 A senior military official said ''the message of the report is that you can't win in Afghanistan without first fixing Pakistan.''
 ''But even if you fix Pakistan,'' the official said, ''that won't be enough.''
 That was also the conclusion of a major study of what has gone wrong in Afghanistan, published in January by a group led by Gen. James L. Jones, a former NATO commander. General Jones, who retired from the Marine Corps, was appointed last week to become the next national security adviser. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pakistani soldiers moved toward militant positions in the Bajaur tribal region on the border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILIO MORENATTI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



254 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Replacing Senator Clinton

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama's choice of Senator Hillary Clinton as secretary of state will leave a gaping hole in New York's Congressional delegation. It also provides an important opportunity -- and an important test of leadership -- for Gov. David Paterson, who will pick her replacement. 
 So far, Mr. Paterson has given no real clue about who he wants. We urge him to take the time he needs and to pick someone who can follow in the tradition of superb New York senators like Jacob Javits and Daniel Patrick Moynihan -- and Hillary Clinton.
 Politics being what they are in this state, Mr. Paterson is already under intense pressure to choose someone who appeals to this constituency or that. The new senator should hail from upstate, he is advised, since Albany leaders and Senator Charles Schumer are from the city. The senator should be another woman, or a Latino to appeal to that growing group, or an African-American to replace Mr. Obama as the only one in the Senate.
 The new senator would have to run for the office in 2010, and again for the full six-year term in 2012. With so much campaigning so quickly, some of Mr. Paterson's advisers argue that he should pick a seasoned politician. 
 The list of mentioned possibilities already reads like a state Democratic Party caucus: Attorney General Andrew Cuomo; Congressman Brian Higgins of Buffalo; Thomas Suozzi, the Nassau County executive; Caroline Kennedy; William Thompson, the city comptroller; Congresswoman Kirsten Gillibrand of Hudson; and Adolfo Carrion, the Bronx borough president, to name a few.
 There is nothing wrong with this roster, as long as Mr. Paterson picks the best, not the most politically advantageous.
 The governor has said he will take some time to choose, and Senator Clinton has said she will not officially step down until confirmed as secretary of state. That will be after Jan. 20. These extra weeks mean that Mr. Paterson has time to expand his search beyond the usual political suspects.
 He could consider the presidents of Cornell or Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute or CUNY. What about tapping into the business world in these particularly rocky economic times? What about a scientist or a doctor to help find a better way of keeping Americans healthy? New York State is chock-full of talent. This is a great chance for Mr. Paterson to use some of it wisely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID PATERSON (79%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); BRIAN HIGGINS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



255 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: The Brightest Are Not Always the Best

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
IN 1992, David Halberstam wrote a new introduction for the 20th-anniversary edition of ''The Best and the Brightest,'' his classic history of the hubristic J.F.K. team that would ultimately mire America in Vietnam. He noted that the book's title had entered the language, but not quite as he had hoped. ''It is often misused,'' he wrote, ''failing to carry the tone or irony that the original intended.''
 Halberstam died last year, but were he still around, I suspect he would be speaking up, loudly, right about now. As Barack Obama rolls out his cabinet, ''the best and the brightest'' has become the accolade du jour from Democrats (Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri), Republicans (Senator John Warner of Virginia) and the press (George Stephanopoulos). Few seem to recall that the phrase, in its original coinage, was meant to strike a sardonic, not a flattering, note. Perhaps even Doris Kearns Goodwin would agree that it's time for Beltway reading groups to move on from ''Team of Rivals'' to Halberstam. 
 The stewards of the Vietnam fiasco had pedigrees uncannily reminiscent of some major Obama appointees. McGeorge Bundy, the national security adviser, was, as Halberstam put it, ''a legend in his time at Groton, the brightest boy at Yale, dean of Harvard College at a precocious age.'' His deputy, Walt Rostow, ''had always been a prodigy, always the youngest to do something,'' whether at Yale, M.I.T. or as a Rhodes scholar. Robert McNamara, the defense secretary, was the youngest and highest paid Harvard Business School assistant professor of his era before making a mark as a World War II Army analyst, and, at age 44, becoming the first non-Ford to lead the Ford Motor Company.
 The rest is history that would destroy the presidency of Lyndon Johnson and inflict grave national wounds that only now are healing.
 In the Obama transition, our Clinton-fixated political culture has been hyperventilating mainly over the national security team, but that's not what gives me pause. Hillary Clinton and Robert Gates were bothwrong about the Iraq invasion, but neither of them were architects of that folly and both are far better known in recent years for consensus-building caution (at times to a fault in Clinton's case) than arrogance. Those who fear an outbreak of Clintonian drama in the administration keep warning that Obama has hired a secretary of state he can't fire. But why not take him at his word when he says ''the buck will stop with me''? If Truman could cashier Gen. Douglas MacArthur, then surely Obama could fire a brand-name cabinet member in the (unlikely) event she goes rogue.
 No, it's the economic team that evokes trace memories of our dark best-and-brightest past. Lawrence Summers, the new top economic adviser, was the youngest tenured professor in Harvard's history and is famous for never letting anyone forget his brilliance. It was his highhanded disregard for his own colleagues, not his impolitic remarks about gender and science, that forced him out of Harvard's presidency in four years. Timothy Geithner, the nominee for Treasury secretary, is the boy wonder president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He comes with none of Summers's personal baggage, but his sparkling resume is missing one crucial asset: experience outside academe and government, in the real world of business and finance. Postgraduate finishing school at Kissinger & Associates doesn't count.
 Summers and Geithner are both proteges of another master of the universe, Robert Rubin. His appearance in the photo op for Obama-transition economic advisers three days after the election was, to put it mildly, disconcerting. Ever since his acclaimed service as Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, Rubin has labored as a senior adviser and director at Citigroup, now being bailed out by taxpayers to the potential tune of some $300 billion. Somehow the all-seeing Rubin didn't notice the toxic mortgage-derivatives on Citi's books until it was too late. The Citi may never sleep, but he snored. 
 Geithner was no less tardy in discovering the reckless, wholesale gambling that went on in Wall Street's big casinos, all of which cratered while at least nominally under his regulatory watch. That a Hydra-headed banking monster like Citigroup came to be in the first place was a direct byproduct of deregulation championed by Rubin and Summers in Clinton's Treasury Department (where Geithner also served). The New Deal reform they helped repeal, the Glass-Steagall Act, had been enacted in 1933 in part because Citigroup's ancestor, National City Bank, had imploded after repackaging bad loans as toxic securities in the go-go 1920s. 
 Well, nobody's perfect. Given that John McCain's economic team was headlined by Carly Fiorina and Joe the Plumber, the country would be dodging a fiscal bullet even if Obama had picked Suze Orman. But I keep wondering why the honeymoon hagiography about the best and the brightest has been so over the top. Washington's cheerleading for our new New Frontier cabinet superstars has seldom been interrupted by tough questions about Summers's Harvard career or Geithner's record at the Fed. For that, it's best to turn to the business press: Andrew Ross Sorkin at The New York Times, for one, has been relentless in trying to ferret out Geithner's opaque role in the catastrophic decision to let Lehman Brothers fail.
 No doubt the Pavlovian ovations for the Obama team are in part a reaction to our immediate political past. After eight years of a presidency that valued cronyism over brains (or even competence) and embraced an anti-intellectualism apotheosized by Sarah Palin, it's a godsend to have a president who puts a premium on merit. I also wonder if a press corps that underrated Obama's political prowess for much of the campaign, demeaning him as a professorial wuss next to the brawny Clinton and McCain, is now overcompensating for that mistake. No one wants to miss out a second time on triumphal history in the making.
 This, too, is a replay of what happened when Kennedy arrived, beating out the more seasoned Richard Nixon and ending eight years of Eisenhower rule. ''Rarely had a new administration received such a sympathetic hearing at a personal level from the more serious and respected journalists of the city,'' Halberstam wrote. ''The good reporters of that era, those who were well educated and who were enlightened themselves and worked for enlightened organizations, liked the Kennedys and were for the same things the Kennedys were for.'' They couldn't imagine that ''men who were said to be the ablest to serve in government in this century'' would turn out to be architects of America's ''worst tragedy since the Civil War.''
 Post-Iraq, we're unlikely to rush into a new Vietnam. But we ignore the past's lessons at our peril. In his 20th-anniversary reflections, Halberstam wrote that his favorite passage in his book was the one where Johnson, after his first Kennedy cabinet meeting, raved to his mentor, the speaker of the House, Sam Rayburn, about all the president's brilliant men. ''You may be right, and they may be every bit as intelligent as you say,'' Rayburn responded, ''but I'd feel a whole lot better about them if just one of them had run for sheriff once.''
 Halberstam loved that story because it underlined the weakness of the Kennedy team: ''the difference between intelligence and wisdom, between the abstract quickness and verbal facility which the team exuded, and true wisdom, which is the product of hard-won, often bitter experience.'' That difference was clearly delineated in Vietnam, where American soldiers, officials and reporters could see that the war was going badly even as McNamara brusquely wielded charts and crunched numbers to enforce his conviction that victory was assured. 
 In our current financial quagmire, there have also been those who had the wisdom to sound alarms before Rubin, Summers or Geithner did. Among them were not just economists like Joseph Stiglitz and Nouriel Roubini but also Doris Dungey, a 47-year-old financial blogger known as Tanta, who died of cancer in Upper Marlboro, Md., last Sunday. As the Times obituary observed, ''her first post, in December 2006, took issue with an optimistic Citigroup report that maintained that the mortgage industry would 'rationalize' in 2007, to the benefit of larger players like, well, Citigroup.'' It was months before the others publicly echoed her judgment. 
 For some of J.F.K.'s best and brightest, Halberstam wrote, wisdom came ''after Vietnam.'' We have to hope that wisdom is coming to Summers and Geithner as they struggle with our financial Tet. Clearly it has not come to Rubin. Asked by The Times in April if he'd made any mistakes at Citigroup, he sounded as self-deluded as McNamara in retirement.
 ''I honestly don't know,'' Rubin answered. ''In hindsight, there are a lot of things we'd do differently. But in the context of the facts as I knew them and my role, I'm inclined to think probably not.'' Since that interview, 52,000 Citigroup employees have been laid off but not Rubin, who remainsremorseless, collecting a salary that has totaled in excess of $115 million since 1999. You may be touched to hear that he is voluntarily relinquishing his bonus this Christmas. 
 Rubin hasn't been seen in a transition photo op since Nov. 7, and in the end Obama chose Paul Volcker as chairman of his Economic Recovery Advisory Board. This was a presidential decision not only bright but wise.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ARMIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN WARNER (53%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (53%); MARK WARNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (88%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



256 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Showdown in the Big Tent

BYLINE: By CAITLIN FLANAGAN and BENJAMIN SCHWARZ. 
Caitlin Flanagan is the author of ''To Hell With All That.'' Benjamin Schwarz is the national and literary editor of The Atlantic.

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 THE attitude of white, liberal Hollywood toward African- American churches has long been one of almost participatory respect. Whether it's Gospel Brunch at the House of Blues on Sunset Boulevard, or the Blind Boys of Alabama on the iPod, or a serious -- reverential -- mention of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference over dinner, the understanding is clear: the black church is a foundational institution in the history of the civil rights struggle, and its music (although it makes reference to Jesus Christ as a personal savior) is smoking hot.
 It was only recently that the A-list discovered that this love is unrequited. Last month, Proposition 8 passed, making gay marriage illegal in California, and the demographic that lent insult to injury was the state's African-American voters. 
 They came to the polls in record numbers to support Barack Obama, and they brought with them a fiercely held and enduring antipathy toward homosexuality: 7 in 10 blacks voted in support of traditional marriage. Whether that was the game-changer or not is a question for near-constant debate. Many gay activists have begun quietly to suggest that had Hillary Clinton been the Democratic nominee, Prop 8 would not have passed. 
 Of the values progressives hold dear, none can be as central or as cherished as the promotion of diversity. It is a word that has become almost a term of art. When a private school champions its embrace of ''diversity,'' parents understand that the admissions office is not dying to enroll the son of a white evangelical minister or the daughter of a founding partner of a white-shoe law firm. Rather, we know that the school makes an intentional effort to include children of certain minority groups among its student body, and that most important among those groups are African-Americans and the children of gay families. 
 Left-leaning California's horror about this newly revealed schism between two of its favorite sons is a situation that cries out for a villain, but the one that liberal white Hollywood has chosen for the role probably won't make it all the way to the third act. 
 ''It's their churches,'' somebody whispered to one of us not long after the election; ''It's their Christianity,'' someone else hissed, rolling her eyes. Apparently the religion espoused by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is now the enemy, at least among the smart set, and if this sounds like a regional issue, it's not.
 What we in California have been forced to confront, before anyone had even had the chance to sweep up the tinsel or plop the first Alka-Seltzers into the glasses of water after that heavenly night in Grant Park, is that there's a big difference between coalition politics and rainbow party politics. 
 A coalition is composed of groups that may dislike -- or even hate -- one another, but who understand the shared political expediency of standing together. Rainbow party politics involve bringing together masses of people who are identified by being burdened by a particular grievance. Soon enough -- in groups forged of such friable bonds, and almost always when matters of morality and lifestyle come into play -- you will discover that one oppressed group does not necessarily support the goals of another oppressed group.
 Hollywood, of course, is a city full of statesmen and moral authorities, and many of them ran to their pulpits and Web sites to get on the right side of this issue, but there was no way to hold both truths together in a position that was both acceptably liberal and coherent. ''At some point in our lifetime,'' said George Clooney, ''gay marriage won't be an issue, and everyone who stood against this civil right will look as outdated as George Wallace standing on the school steps keeping James Hood from entering the University of Alabama because he was black.''
 To the opponents of Proposition 8, this kind of analogy is a rallying cry; but as white Hollywood has recently discovered, to the blacks who voted for the measure, it's galling. Comparing the infringement on civil rights that gays are experiencing to that suffered by black Americans is to begin a game of ''top my oppression'' that you're not going to win. The struggle for equality -- beginning with freedom from human bondage (see: references to the book of Exodus at the Gospel Brunch) -- has been so central to African-American identity that many blacks find homosexual claims of a commensurate level of injustice frivolous, and even offensive.
 Furthermore -- and perhaps even more painfully for those of us who support gay marriage and all that it represents -- Christian teaching on marriage is not the only reason so many blacks supported Proposition 8. Although it has come as a shocking realization to many in this community, a host of sociological studies confirm that many blacks feel a significant aversion to homosexuality itself, finding it morally and sexually repugnant. And here in essence is the problem with the Democrats' big tent, as well as the grounds for a wholly new kind of culture war that is probably going to make us long for the clear lines and simple enmities of the old one. The New Deal coalition was a mass movement based on building a more just economic and political order, embracing Protestant evangelicals and Catholic immigrants, segregationists and integrationists, radical left-wingers and unionized working men from the steel belt, all holding their noses with one hand and pulling the lever with the other. Many of us who voted for Mr. Obama want the same things that the New Dealers wanted; we aren't trying to advance a cause as much as we want to regain so much lost ground.
 ''This is our moment,'' the president-elect has told us, stirringly. This is our time to stand shoulder to shoulder, the hipsters of Washington Square and the minivan moms of Minnetonka. Our nation is seeing huge numbers of its citizens slide into actual -- and virtually intractable, if we keep hold of President Bush's policies -- poverty. We can stand together on these big issues, or we can balkanize ourselves with the help of good old-fashioned identity politics, which didn't serve too well the last time around. 
 As anyone who ever had to sit through a lecture on ''the paradox of tolerance'' can tell you, it's possible to create a vast utopian society forged of many previously disenfranchised groups -- but you don't want to ask too many questions.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN REA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHILDREN (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); GAY PARENTING (76%); FAMILY (74%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



257 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vows Public Works On Vast Scale

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama promised Saturday to create the largest public works construction program since the inception of the interstate highway system a half century ago as he seeks to put together a plan to resuscitate the reeling economy.
 With jobs evaporating and the recession deepening, Mr. Obama began highlighting elements of the economic recovery program he is trying to fashion with Congressional leaders in hopes of being able to enact it shortly after being sworn in on Jan. 20. His address on Saturday followed the report on Friday indicating that the country lost 533,000 jobs in November alone, bringing the total number of jobs lost over the past year to nearly 2 million.
 Mr. Obama's remarks showcased his ambition to expand the definition of traditional work programs for the middle class, like infrastructure projects to repair roads and bridges, to include new-era jobs in technology and so-called green jobs that reduce energy use and global warming emissions. ''We need action -- and action now,'' Mr. Obama said in an address broadcast Saturday morning on radio and YouTube.
 Mr. Obama's plan, if enacted, would be in part a government-directed industrial policy, with lawmakers and administration officials picking winners and losers among private projects and raining large amounts of taxpayer money on them. 
 It would cover a range of programs to expand broadband Internet access, to make government buildings more energy efficient, to improve information technology at hospitals and doctors' offices, and to upgrade computers in schools.
 ''It is unacceptable that the United States ranks 15th in the world in broadband adoption,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Here, in the country that invented the Internet, every child should have the chance to get online.''
 President Bush and many conservative economists have opposed such large-scale government intervention in the economy because it supports enterprises that might not survive in a free market. That is the crux of the argument against a government bailout of the auto industry.
 But Mr. Obama proposes to charge ahead, asserting that extensive government support is needed to preserve and create jobs while building the latticework of a 21st century economy.
 Although Mr. Obama put no price tag on his plan, he said he would invest record amounts of money in the vast infrastructure program, which also includes work on schools, sewer systems, mass transit, electrical grids, dams and other public utilities. The green jobs would include various categories, including jobs dedicated to creating alternative fuels, windmills and solar panels; building energy efficient appliances, or installing fuel-efficient heating or cooling systems. 
 Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House energy adviser, said that Mr. Obama had now settled whatever debate there was in his transition team and among Democrats in Congress over how to lift the economy in the short term and over a longer horizon.
 ''It's now clear that Obama intends to stimulate the economy through large direct government spending on infrastructure projects as well as through business and individual tax cuts,'' said Mr. Bledsoe, now an official of the National Commission on Energy Policy, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. ''He is advocating things like guaranteeing every American a college education, wiring the entire country for Internet, putting in a smart electric grid. If he can do it, these will be major systemic advantages for the United States in the competitive global economy.''
 Although Mr. Obama is weeks away from taking office, Friday's grim jobs report heightened pressure on him to assert leadership before his inauguration.
 Mr. Obama and his team are working with Congressional leaders to devise a spending package that some lawmakers suggest could total $400 billion to $700 billion. Some analysts forecast even higher costs. Mr. Obama has said he would direct his team to come up with a plan to save or create 2.5 million jobs in the first two years of his administration.
 A big part of that will be public works spending. ''We will create millions of jobs by making the single largest new investment in our national infrastructure since the creation of the federal highway system in the 1950s,'' Mr. Obama said. He did not estimate how much he would devote to that purpose, but when he met with the nation's governors last week, they said the states had $136 billion worth of road, bridge, water and other projects ready to go as soon as money became available. They estimated that each billion dollars spent would create up to 40,000 jobs.
 Local and regional transit systems have $8 billion more in projects that could begin immediately, like buying hybrid buses and expanding light rail systems, creating thousands of jobs.
 ''He hasn't given us any commitment, but we are fairly certain it's going to be large,'' Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat and chairman of the National Governors Association, said in an interview Saturday. ''I think he understands if you're trying to reverse the economy and turn it around, this is not the time to do it on the cheap. This is not the time to do it in small doses.''
 Mr. Bush and other Republicans have resisted such an approach in part out of concern for the already soaring federal budget deficit, which could easily hit $1 trillion this year. Borrowing hundreds of billions of dollars today to try to fix the economy, they argue, will leave a huge bill for the next generation.
 Conservative economists have also long derided public works spending as a poor response to tough economic times, saying it has not been a reliable catalyst for short-term growth and instead is more about politicians gaining points with constituents.
 Alan D. Viard, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, told the House Ways and Means Committee recently that public works spending should not be authorized out of the ''illusory hope of job gains or economic stabilization.''
 ''If more money is spent on infrastructure, more workers will be employed in that sector,'' Mr. Viard added. ''In the long run, however, an increase in infrastructure spending requires a reduction in public or private spending for other goods and services. As a result, fewer workers are employed in other sectors of the economy.''
 Mr. Obama implicitly tried to counter such arguments by invoking the federal interstate highway program, seen as one of the most successful public works efforts in American history.
 President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the Federal Aid Highway Act in 1956, ultimately resulting in the construction of 42,795 miles of roads. In 1991, the government concluded that the total cost came to $128.9 billion, with the federal government paying $114.3 billion and the states picking up the rest.
 Mr. Obama also responded to criticism of waste and inefficiency in such programs by promising new spending rules, like a requirement that states act quickly to invest in roads and bridges or sacrifice federal money.
 ''We'll measure progress by the reforms we make,'' Mr. Obama said, ''and the results we achieve by the jobs we create, by the energy we save, by whether America is more competitive in the world.''
 The green jobs portion of the economic package could run as high as $100 billion over two years, according to an aide familiar with the discussions. 
 A blueprint for such spending can be found in a study financed by the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts and the Center for American Progress, a Washington research organization founded by John D. Podesta, who isa co-chairman of Mr. Obama's transition team.
 Daniel J. Weiss, an environmental analyst at Mr. Podesta's center, said Washington should invest more money in existing programs that create work while cutting energy use, like home weatherization programs that have been chronically underfinanced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); WIND ENERGY (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); EMISSIONS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BROADBAND (69%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (53%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



258 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1925 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Lightning Rod Finds Path to Renewal With Obama

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
One quiet Friday in June 2006, Lawrence H. Summers ended his turbulent tenure as president of Harvard University. Few of the undergraduates for whom Mr. Summers, a former Treasury secretary, used to sign dollar bills were around. Most of his staff, including his driver, had been reassigned. Soon, even the burger with his name was off the menu at Mr. Bartley's in Harvard Square.
Now, Mr. Summers will have a job as the top White House economic adviser to Barack Obama. American economic policy will be spearheaded in what many call the worst environment since the Great Depression in part by a man whose last full-time role ended in forced resignation.
The two men, who have forged their relationship in the tumult of the financial crisis, share a lot: Harvard, a love of debate and firm convictions, like agreement on the need to narrow the gap between America's most fortunate and everyone else. But they are also an odd couple: the serene, slender politician who seems to win people over effortlessly and the impatient, acerbic bear of a man who seems to offend them just as easily. 
''Barack thinks with his mind open,'' said Charles Ogletree, a law professor at Harvard. ''Larry thinks with his mouth open.''
Aides to President-elect Obama say a top administration role for Mr. Summers once would have seemed to be a remote possibility because of his controversial tenure at Harvard, during which he angered women and members of the faculty.
From the moment he stepped down, Mr. Summers, advised by powerful supporters who said he had been unfairly maligned, worked hard at repairing his reputation. He defended his time at Harvard but admitted mistakes; wrote a column that repositioned him politically and predicted the coming trauma; helped build a research group that supplied Mr. Obama with economic ideas and aides; and strengthened ties to women who helped dispel the accusation -- stemming from a 2005 talk in which Mr. Summers wondered out loud about a relative lack of women in top academic science and engineering posts -- that he thought poorly of their scientific abilities. He helped practically anyone who asked for advice, like undergraduates, economists and candidates.
But it was the financial crisis, or a series of phone calls about it, that almost instantly resuscitated Mr. Summers's career.
Starting last summer, as economics came to the forefront of the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama faced constant decisions on the subject. Mr. Summers's allies in the campaign put Mr. Summers on the phone, giving him a key task: to synthesize the developments for Mr. Obama. Mr. Summers made himself into an essential guide, Obama aides say, and earned a place in the administration.
As the head of the National Economic Council, he will play two roles: counseling the president and nurturing the proposals of others. Few doubt that Mr. Summers will excel in the first; Democrats and Republicans call him one of the top economic minds in the country, with a resume that may make him overqualified for the job.
Even Mr. Summers's allies, though, acknowledge worries about the second part of his role. Mr. Summers, in an interview, said a crucial part of the job was exposing the president ''to all possible views, developed as strongly and rigorously as they can be.''
But at Harvard, numerous faculty members and administrators say, Mr. Summers's downfall resulted chiefly from his tendency to impose rather than persuade, to appear to have little regard for the views of others.
''He's going to have to ensure that he does not stifle debate or intimidate people,'' said Roger Porter, a colleague at the Harvard Kennedy School and a former adviser to three presidents, who is otherwise confident about Mr. Summers's performance.
David Gergen, also a Harvard Kennedy School professor and White House veteran, asked: ''Will it all be tea and cookies in there with Larry?'' Of course not, but it shouldn't be.''
After his five-year Harvard presidency, Mr. Summers at first seemed to have trouble letting go, colleagues and staff members say. He was on sabbatical but still roamed campus, especially the residential houses and pizza parties of undergraduates, who adored him so much they gave him a standing ovation at the next year's graduation. He tried to fashion himself into an authority on reform of higher education, starting a book and giving blistering talks that amounted to a defense of his leadership.
Mr. Summers had recently married Elisa New, an English professor, and he bought a 6,500-square foot house and took up golf. ''I had been in positions for 15 years when I had a full schedule for every day and a briefing book,'' he said, ''and I wanted for some interval to have a flexible and freer life.''
Friends, including Mr. Gergen, who had deployed his crisis management skills to try to save Mr. Summers's presidency, and Robert E. Rubin, Mr. Summers's predecessor as Treasury secretary and a longtime champion, told him he still had a big contribution to make. Return to your first love, economics, some recalled saying. Forget education reform. And make sure people know you are no misogynist.
Mr. Summers counseled Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the highest-ranking woman in elected office in American history, who drew him into economic advisory meetings. From the end of his presidency, the many women among his friends fanned out to defend his name.
''Quite a number of us who are women and relished working with Larry'' thought he had been given a ''bum rap,'' said Elena Kagan, whom Mr. Summers had appointed as law school dean.
As he took on projects, collaborators enjoyed the very qualities that had made the Harvard faculty seethe: for instance, his eagerness to delve into matters that seemed small for someone of his stature.
He became a co-editor of the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, helping revive the once-vibrant journal. He took on a lucrative part-time role at D. E. Shaw & Company, a investment firm, spending a day or two a week in New York. He joined the board of Teach for America, which promotes equality in education. In interviews, people from all three organizations marveled at Mr. Summers's capacity for involvement even in minor affairs.
''The small strategic decisions add up to the whole ballgame,'' said Wendy Kopp, founder of Teach for America.
Around the time Mr. Summers resigned, Mr. Rubin started a small research group called the Hamilton Project and housed at the Brookings Institution, to foster new economic policy ideas. Mr. Summers threw himself into it. Asked to review papers by outside authors, he would return them with extensive comments, said Jason Furman, the former project director and chief economic adviser in the Obama campaign. ''He didn't just want to sit on the board and speak at the event,'' said Mr. Furman, who served in the Clinton administration when Mr. Summers was Treasury secretary.
For someone said to be poor at reading others, Mr. Summers has often displayed keen political instincts; after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, he had urged Harvard students to support the government and spoke out in support of its embattled R.O.T.C. chapter. Now, struck by the harsh consequences of globalization and income stagnation even among college graduates, Mr. Summers, known as a centrist as Treasury secretary, moved left, and in a very public forum.
Chrystia Freeland, a former student who had become editor at the Financial Times, asked him to write a monthly column that became such an attraction that the paper soon promoted it with his picture atop the front page. Mr. Summers offered prescriptions for the deepening economic trouble including huge fiscal stimulus and measures to prevent unnecessary foreclosures. A primary theme of his column was that too many people were falling behind, a point he cast in political as well as economic terms.
''In order to keep public support for open markets, you had to do more for the disadvantaged and the losers in globalization,'' as Stuart E. Eizenstat, Mr. Summers's former deputy at the Treasury Department, put it.
Three years ago, Mr. Summers could hardly pronounce Barack Obama's name.
Introducing Mr. Obama at a reunion for black alumni of Harvard Law School, Mr. Summers drew chuckles as he stumbled through several iterations, finally settling on ''BARE-ack.'' The two men, intrigued by each other, stole away to talk privately, Mr. Ogletree said.
In the presidential primaries, most Clinton veterans stuck with their home team candidate, but Mr. Summers stayed neutral. Later, as the Obama campaign swallowed people and ideas from the Hamilton Project, he became involved, too, impressing aides with his willingness to do anything they asked, whether editing policy proposal or making television appearances.
As the financial crisis bloomed, Mr. Furman gave Mr. Summers a crucial task: introducing Mr. Obama's internal conference calls on the economy by quickly summarizing the developments. The results were masterpieces of synthesis and concision, several participants said.
''I could tell, just being on the call,'' Mr. Rubin said, ''Obama got used to Larry bringing it all together.''
Mr. Obama sometimes asked questions other advisers struggled to answer, but Mr. Summers always seemed to provide new detail or analysis, making gracious references to the points of others.
Asked before Election Day if Mr. Summers would consider an administration role, friends joked that he had already bought airline tickets for his job interview.
For the position of Treasury secretary, the transition team had two finalists: Mr. Summers and Timothy F. Geithner, who had worked under him at the Treasury Department. ''Either way it would have made sense,'' Mr. Rubin said.
Obama advisers name several reasons for the job assignments: Mr. Geithner is a fresh face. Mr. Summers's job gives him a broader policy arena and a chance to do what he does best: debate ideas. He also avoids confirmation hearings, which could dredge up unpleasantness related to his Harvard tenure.
When the jobs were announced, economists speculated on what the relationship between Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner would be, now that the latter has the more prestigious title.
But in recent transition meetings, as in the Clinton administration, the two have seemed to trust and enjoy wrangling with each other, one aide said. Mr. Rubin said of Mr. Summers that in general he was ''very aware of the criticism and very focused on making sure it works.''
And some predict that Mr. Obama's style could mellow that of Mr. Summers.
Laurence Tribe, a Harvard law professor, said Mr. Obama's ''affability and inclusiveness might help nurture those same qualities in Larry, even though those haven't been among Larry's notable strengths.''
He may be better matched with fellow economists than he was with Harvard's faculty, say colleagues, and with an advisory role rather than an executive one. As a participant in debates of the National Economic Council in the 1990s, ''he was a great team player, he was loved and was very respectful of the back and forth,'' said Gene Sperling, who led the council under Bill Clinton.
The term of Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, expires in January 2010, and some members of the Obama team predict that if Mr. Summers performs well, the job could be his. It requires confirmation, but with every passing day, say friends, Cambridge recedes further into the distance.
''Now, who talks about Harvard?'' Mr. Eizenstat, the former deputy Treasury secretary, said. ''It's a thing of the past, a little blip on the radar screen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence H. Summers, left, will become the head of the National Economic Council under Barack Obama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Protesters chanting ''Larry Summers has got to go'' at the Loeb Theater at Harvard in 2006. Mr. Summers later stepped down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



259 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Why Wait to Repeal Tax Cuts for the Rich?

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell, is a visiting faculty member at the Stern School of Business at New York University.

 BODY:
ON the campaign trail, Barack Obama said he wanted to eliminate the Bush tax cuts for top earners upon taking office in January. Now he seems to favor letting those cuts expire as scheduled, at the end of 2010. 
 His apparent concern is that raising anyone's taxes immediately might worsen the economic crisis. As Mr. Obama's senior adviser, David Axelrod, said when asked on Fox News about the delay, ''The main thing right now is to get this economic recovery package on the road, to get money in the pockets of the middle class, to get these projects going, to get America working again, and that's where we're going to be focused in January.'' 
 Of course, the government's first priority must be to stimulate spending as quickly as possible, deficits be damned. But it's important to get the biggest possible stimulus for any given deficit. To that end, it would make sense for Mr. Obama to stick with his original timetable. Eliminating the Bush tax cuts right away would make it possible to generate a much larger immediate increase in total spending. 
 Higher tax rates for top earners wouldn't appreciably reduce their spending. A robust finding in behavioral research is that people are extremely reluctant to accept cutbacks in their standard of living. 
 With few exceptions, high-income taxpayers earn substantially more during their lifetimes than they spend, generally bequeathing the surplus to heirs or charities. If these taxpayers faced slightly higher rates, they would have ample resources to maintain their current lifestyles, so most would keep spending as before. The only consequence would be that, years from now, they would leave smaller bequests. 
 The added revenue from eliminating the Bush tax cuts would pay for larger temporary tax cuts for low- and middle-income families than the permanent ones now planned. And because these families spend most or all of their post-tax income, the immediate effect would be an increase in total spending roughly equal to the additional revenue from repealing the cuts. 
 As an option, the extra revenue could be used to raise unemployment insurance benefits and extend them more broadly. Or it could increase eligibility for food stamps. These steps, too, would have the immediate effect of bolstering total spending by almost the full amount of the additional revenue. 
 Still another option would be to use the added revenue to increase grants for road maintenance in cities and states. Here again, 100 percent of the distributions would be spent immediately. 
 But the additional stimulus would not stop there. When someone spends an extra dollar this way, others receive an extra dollar of income, some portion of which they spend, creating still more income for others. 
 Appearing before the Senate Budget Committee last month, Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com, testified that because of this multiplier effect, each dollar of new federal spending would generate roughly $1.50 of additional demand.
 In short, we'd get a lot more stimulus for any given budget deficit if we scrapped the Bush tax cuts immediately and steered the resulting revenue to people who would spend it.
 Those who oppose repealing the cuts will offer the same argument they used to promote them during Mr. Bush's first term -- an argument echoed during the presidential campaign by Senator John McCain, when he invoked Joe the Plumber. 
 In a nutshell, the claim is that low tax rates for top earners prompt small businesses to create jobs. Although this idea went largely unchallenged during the presidential campaign, it flies in the face of everything we know about the economic logic of hiring decisions.
 It rests implicitly on the premise that business owners will hire new workers whenever they can afford to do so. What matters, however, is not whether owners can afford to hire, but whether hiring will increase their profit.
 If the goods produced by additional workers can be sold for at least enough to cover their salaries, hiring makes economic sense, no matter how poor a business owner might be. But if additional workers won't produce enough to cover their salaries, hiring is a losing move, even for the richest owners. The after-tax personal incomes of business owners are irrelevant in hiring decisions. 
 Yet wouldn't tax cuts encourage additional hiring by owners who need cash to cover recruiting and training costs before the new workers start generating extra revenue? In normal circumstances, owners short of cash would borrow to cover those costs if they expected additional workers to be productive enough to cover not just their salaries but also the loan repayment. But in the current crisis, bank loans may not be readily available, so tax cuts could help. It would make far more sense, however, to offer hiring loans -- as Mr. Obama proposed during the campaign. 
 IN any event, the most important barrier to current hiring is not an absence of credit but the fact that not enough people want to buy what companies are selling. To eliminate this demand deficit as quickly as possible, the Bush tax cuts on top earners should be repealed right away, freeing money for more effective use. 
 Although the first concern of the new administration must be to get the economy back on its feet, economic justice was a central theme of Mr. Obama's campaign. In the wake of the 9/11 attacks, and with the nation embroiled in two wars, Americans were poised to respond to a call for national sacrifice. Instead, President Bush and Congress enacted huge tax cuts for the wealthiest families.
 The Bush tax cuts widened income inequality and drove deficits to record levels. Referring to those cuts, Mr. Obama said that ''people didn't need them, and they weren't even asking for them.'' 
 Economic fairness and economic growth are sometimes conflicting goals. But not here. Repealing the Bush tax cuts immediately is not just the fairest policy option but is also the most efficient. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



260 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS HARTFORD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: State Can't Count on Federal Aid, Rell Says

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 LEGISLATIVE leaders in both parties are facing some tough choices about possible cuts to state programs, changes in union contracts and a decision on whether to raise taxes when the General Assembly convenes in January. That is because they didn't make many tough decisions during a special session last month, in spite of warnings about a $6 billion budget shortfall over the next two years.
 The November special legislative session ended after approval of a $288 million deficit-reduction plan, including $71 million in cuts. Gov. M. Jodi Rell quickly signed the package even though it fell short of the $302 million target she had set. 
 ''They couldn't even take all the cuts I gave them,'' Mrs. Rell lamented last week. ''Their will wasn't there.''
 Just seven days after the special session ended, Nancy Wyman, the state comptroller, released a new estimate that the current deficit was at $338 million and climbing despite the cuts that had been made.
 Mrs. Rell was in a grim mood as she returned last week from a National Governors Association meeting in Philadelphia that President-elect Barack Obama attended. Although hoping for additional federal aid on Medicaid and for infrastructure projects, the governor warned that states can't depend on federal money to solve their immediate budget woes.
 She said that governors at the conference were all dealing with the fallout of the nation's collapsing economy. ''This is the worst financial state of affairs we all have seen in at least 75 years,'' she said in a telephone interview.
 Mrs. Rell said she planned to offer a deficit-reduction plan to lawmakers but doubted the General Assembly would act before January. ''I haven't given up on it,'' she said of a quick December budget session, ''but the likelihood of that happening is very weak.''
 James A. Amann, the State House speaker and a Democrat from Milford, agreed that state lawmakers don't fully recognize the depth of the problems.
 ''It was a little bit of a wake-up call,'' he said of the one-day, pre-Thanksgiving special session. ''But I don't think a lot of them are really out of bed yet.''
 Lawmakers balked at Mrs. Rell's proposal to tap into a pool of unclaimed 5-cent deposits on bottles and cans that could have provided an estimated $14.5 million in revenue this fiscal year and about $25 million in 2009-10. That money now stays with beverage distributors who have fought every legislative attempt to capture the funds in the past 17 years.
 This time around, beverage industry lobbyists joined forces with unions fearful of potential job losses to persuade State House Democrats not to tamper with the deposits.
 ''It was a bad sign we couldn't come together,'' John McKinney, the state Senate minority leader and a Republican from Fairfield, said of that failure.
 The only thing lawmakers could agree to do on the issue was to require beverage distributors to report to the state exactly how much money is involved when consumers fail to redeem their cans and bottles.
 Mr. McKinney said legislative leaders and Mrs. Rell need to begin working on the next round of deficit reductions immediately, not in January.
 Mr. Amann, who is retiring from the General Assembly to prepare for a run for governor, said he didn't believe there was any point in trying another special session before 2009.
 Governor Rell's administration has already begun to talk with state employee unions about possible contract concessions.
 ''In the absence of concessions, it will create more pressure for layoffs,'' said the State Senate majority leader, Martin M. Looney, a Democrat from New Haven. ''I think if there are concessions, layoffs can be avoided.''
 The last state layoffs came in 2002 when John G. Rowland, then governor, and union leaders collided in a bitter standoff.
 ''I would hope not to repeat that scenario,'' said Mr. Looney. Mrs. Rell appears to have a much less confrontational attitude toward state unions, he said.
 ''It would be impossible to have worse relations with the unions than Governor Rowland did,'' Mr. Looney said.
 The legislature's Democratic majority rejected a Republican proposal to offer state employees an early retirement program. Democrats argued the last early retirement scheme severely damaged some agencies and provided little in long-term cost savings because of rehirings. 
 The plan that did pass included $40 million in new revenue from a tax amnesty program. It will allow delinquent state taxpayers to avoid penalties if they pay up between May 1 and June 25, 2009. Legislators voted to allow municipalities to conduct their own tax amnesty programs. 
 It also included a $157 million settlement the state expects to receive from the federal government for Medicaid underpayments to Connecticut since 2002.
 Mr. Amann and other legislative veterans can't help but think about what happened in 1991, when the state faced estimated shortfalls of more than $1.6 billion out of an annual budget of about $8 billion. Budget gridlock that year lasted until August, bringing state government nearly to a standstill. It ended with approval to impose a state income tax for the first time ever.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PLEDGES: President-elect Barack Obama meets members of the National Governors Association. Gov. M. Jodi Rell, far right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LOBBYING (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); MEDICAID (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (63%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (91%); BARACK OBAMA (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



261 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: A Vote For Change Long Overdue

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama struck a nerve when he called for an eight-team college football playoff to decide the national champion. The proposal drew varied reactions. 
 ''I actually laughed out loud,'' Grant Teaff, the executive director of the American Football Coaches Association, said during a telephone interview when asked about what Obama said last month on ''60 Minutes'' and on ''Monday Night Football.'' 
 He meant no disrespect, Teaff said, but felt that Obama, like so many fans of college football, had no idea of the complexity in formulating a playoff. 
 ''I think he pulled that number out of the air,'' Teaff said. ''He was on a football show and he answered the question like a lot of politicians would. If you ask the man on the street what they would like to have, they'd say, 'Oh, yeah, we want a playoff.' ''
 Obama doesn't strike me as one who pulls ideas out of the air. I suspect that if he decides to follow up on his lighthearted threat to ''throw my weight around,'' Teaff and those who favor the current bowl system may not be smiling much longer. 
 ''The majority of our coaches are happy with the bowl system,'' Teaff said. ''It's got its faults and problems, but that's a part of the whole picture.'' 
 That is also part of the deep-rooted stumbling block to a playoff: a growing economic divide in major college football between perennial powerhouses and a sprawling middle class of programs treading water. A number of high-profile coaches -- including Pete Carroll of Southern California, Nick Saban of Alabama and Bob Stoops of Oklahoma -- have come out in favor of a playoff for the Football Bowl Subdivision, formerly Division I-A. 
 The clamor for a playoff will intensify now that the season will end with yet another fiasco. Alabama, No. 1 for three weeks, was almost certainly knocked out of the championship game by virtue of its loss to Florida on Saturday, while U.S.C. and Texas, two worthy one-loss teams, will in all likelihood not even have the opportunity to compete for the title. Playoff critics say this is only an issue among the haves of college football. 
 Teaff said about 15 of 120 programs begin every season with realistic expectations of competing for the national title.
 ''Because they have the resources, the facilities, the big stadium -- all of the things you need to have,'' Teaff said. ''But you have to look at the majority of the institutions. They want very much to use college football for the purposes that benefited their universities. Playing for a national championship would be fine, but if that eliminates the bowl system, you'll find the majority of coaches do not want to do that.''
 Tyrone Willingham, who resigned under pressure as the coach at Washington, is still the president of the coaches association. He wants a playoff.
 ''This is not a hard one,'' Willingham said. ''We have collegiate playoffs in every division but one. The best way to decide a champion is by simply playing it off, not by having coaches vote on it. I think everyone would admit that.''
 The barrier is not competition, but money. How to divide it. How to negotiate desirable television contracts. How to accommodate the network of bowls that have been the spine of college football -- and the saving grace of many a coach who used a bid to save his job. These annual debates have gotten old. It's time for action. Force if needed. 
 Obama should summon a group of college presidents, conference commissioners and bowl representatives to the White House and deliver an ultimatum: come up with a comprehensive playoff system, or risk losing the bogus tax-exempt status they have enjoyed for so long. 
 There is precedent for bringing the power and prestige of the presidency to bear on the game. In 1905, Theodore Roosevelt summoned college football leaders to the White House to discuss ways of restoring the game to public favor because escalating violence had pushed it to the brink of extinction. That year, football was responsible for 18 deaths and 149 serious injuries.
 Roosevelt told the group to find a way to make the game safer, or he would support abolishing it. The meeting led to the formation of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States (which became the National Collegiate Athletic Association in 1910) and the creation of the American Intercollegiate Football Rules Committee. Among the changes the committee made in 1906 was approving the forward pass, reducing playing time to 60 minutes from 70, requiring six men on the line of scrimmage at all times and increasing the distance for a first down to 10 yards from 5. 
 Roosevelt's initiative succeeded beyond anything he could have imagined. Major college football has spiraled out of control, and the annual debate over a playoff system is merely a symptom of a larger problem. The game is more popular than ever, and the coaches are among the most well-compensated employees at many universities. 
 College football has become a multimillion-dollar industry, operating beyond the reach of the N.C.A.A. and resisting calls for an equitable way to determine a national champion. 
 Establishing a playoff system would probably be the most significant advance in football since Roosevelt inspired the 1906 reforms. This could be accomplished with relative presidential ease and may even provide momentum for tackling more serious initiatives -- the economy and the war. 
 Like Teddy Roosevelt, Obama carries a big stick; all he has to do is wave it. Football people understand that language. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FOOTBALL COACHES ASSOCIATION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



262 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: The Employment Crash

 BODY:
The headline numbers in the employment report for November were worse than dreadful -- and they did not reflect the true extent of the weak and worsening outlook for American jobs. 
 Employers axed 533,000 jobs last month, the worst monthly loss since December 1974, bringing the number of lost jobs in the last year to 1.9 million. Worse, two-thirds of the losses were in the past three months, a sign of an intensifying downturn and of more job cuts ahead. 
 The unemployment rate for November -- which rose to 6.7 percent, or 10.3 million people -- also understates the weakness in the job market. 
 Job loss in a recession is related to the number of jobs created while the economy was expanding. Job creation during the Bush-era business cycle was the weakest since the end of World War II, so there are simply not as many workers to lay off as in past downturns. Instead, workers' hours have been cut, sharply increasing the number of people working part time who want full-time jobs. Involuntary part-timers and out-of-work people who are discouraged from job hunting because their prospects are dim are measured in the underemployment rate, which at 12.5 percent is now the highest since the government started keeping track in 1994. 
 Joblessness and the threat of joblessness will depress already dismal consumer spending, which in turn will depress business investment, leading to higher unemployment. Rising unemployment will also fuel more foreclosures, which will further destabilize the financial system and reinforce economic weakness. 
 One in 10 borrowers in America were either delinquent or in foreclosure in the third quarter, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, a stunning tally that does not even reflect the drag of rising unemployment in October and November. Unemployment among 25- to 34-year-olds, which includes most first-time homebuyers, is rising fast. Yet, rather than attack foreclosures directly, the Bush administration's latest economic rescue proposal is to try to spur home buying by reducing mortgage rates. Good luck. 
 The political reality is that any serious response to unemployment and foreclosures will probably not occur until the Obama administration takes over. Members of Congress should be working now on another round of economic stimulus, consisting of bolstered unemployment compensation and food stamps and aid to states and localities, including money for creating jobs by rebuilding the nation's infrastructure. An anti-foreclosure plan to rework troubled mortgages en masse is long overdue and should also be passed, either as part of the stimulus or as a stand-alone measure. 
 Beyond stimulus, President-elect Barack Obama will need a larger recovery plan that puts employment, rising wages and savings at the center of the agenda. The selection of a strong labor secretary, whose input will be as valued as that of Mr. Obama's Wall-Street-oriented economic advisers, is crucial. The work force needs a champion who has the president's full attention. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); WORLD WAR II (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



263 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; OBAMALAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: 'Partisan' Seeks a Prefix: Bi- or Post-

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
-- Six weeks before taking office, President-elect Barack Obama can already boast one striking accomplishment: persuading partisan, ideological adversaries to see him in a less partisan, less ideological light. 
 The reappraisal runs deeper than Mr. Obama's photo-op pleasantries with Senator John McCain. Derided during the campaign as a purveyor of ''socialism'' who was guilty of ''palling around with terrorists,'' he has since won praise from conservatives for retaining Robert Gates as defense secretary, for naming Gen. James L. Jones as his national security adviser and for selecting the moderate Timothy F. Geithner, who helped draw up the Bush administration's Wall Street bailout plan, as his Treasury secretary.
 Karl Rove has called Mr. Obama's economic team ''reassuring,'' and other Bush alumni agree. ''Obama is doing something marvelously right,'' Michael Gerson, President Bush's onetime senior speechwriter, wrote in The Washington Post. ''He is disappointing the ideologues.'' 
 More remarkably, Mr. Obama has reaped those plaudits without seeming to abandon his commitment to the same policies that conservatives routinely attacked during the campaign -- his pledge to expand health care coverage, to withdraw troops from Iraq and to increase government spending on infrastructure and alternative energy projects. On the contrary, Mr. Obama has indicated that he will follow his belief in activist government with an economic stimulus package much larger than what he proposed in the campaign. And there has been, so far, very little grumbling from conservatives. 
 All this raises the question: can Mr. Obama indeed be forging the new style of politics he invoked so often during the election -- one that transcends the partisan divisions that have marked recent administrations? If so, what will he replace it with, a bipartisan style of governance that splits the differences between competing ideological camps, or a ''post-partisan'' politics that narrows gaps between red and blue or even renders them irrelevant? 
 Actually, insiders in Mr. Obama's emerging team foresee a third option: a series of left-leaning programs that draw on Americans' desire for action and also on Mr. Obama's moderate, even conservative, temperament, to hurdle the ideological obstacles that have lately paralyzed Washington.
 Not that Mr. Obama is the first president-elect to offer soothing words. ''We are all Republicans, we are all Democrats,'' Jefferson declared in his Inaugural Address in 1801, before the modern party system had taken root. 
 Later presidents have said much the same thing. But time and again, ideological divisions have thwarted the promise of nonideological problem-solving. President John F. Kennedy offered such a forecast in 1962. The most pressing issues of the moment were ''technical problems, administrative problems,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''They are very sophisticated judgments which do not lend themselves to the great sort of passionate movements which have stirred this country so often in the past.'' 
 But Mr. Kennedy's proposals on civil rights, among other issues, met with strong resistance from Congressional conservatives, and not long after that, baby boom upheavals created the legacy of ideological bitterness that Mr. Obama now seeks to overcome. Since then ideology and partisanship have become more dominant in American politics. In all three presidential elections of the 21st century, voters have split along clear ideological lines.
 Last month's exit polls showed Mr. Obama winning the votes of just one in 10 Republicans and one in 5 conservatives. Some hot-button issues that Mr. Obama has yet to touch during the transition -- abortion policy and judicial appointments, for example -- could still inflame the culture wars. 
 But the tone of political discussion in recent weeks suggests several reasons to expect something new.
 There are, to begin with, the transition appointments, which have not only pleased critics on the right but also lowered the overall temperature of the political discussion. Representative Melissa Bean, like Mr. Obama an Illinois Democrat, said that Mr. Obama's centrist appointments had caused the news media to lavish less attention on the ''lunatic fringe'' in Washington.
 Beyond this, Mr. Obama has persuaded some conservatives, at least for now, that he really is open to their ideas. Meeting with the nation's governors in Philadelphia last week, he pointedly and publicly reached out to the Republican executives. ''As long as he's smart and he listens and he sets a big table, we have a chance to do business,'' said Bernadette Budde of the Business-Industry Political Action Committee, an influential voice for corporate America in Washington.
 There is also the boost Mr. Obama has received from the Republicans' disarray. ''I don't think there is such a thing as post-partisan or post-ideological politics, but there is such a thing as one side being so shell-shocked and/or incompetent that it is incapable of presenting an alternative vision,'' said Dan Mitchell, a conservative economic analyst at the Cato Institute. 
 Thus, while some Republicans still call for a return to tax cuts and smaller government, others seem impatient with conservative ''first principles.'' One example is Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, who favors new federal spending on infrastructure and last week urged lawmakers to ''get off of their rigid ideologies.'' 
 This is not surprising from a governor who has declared a ''fiscal emergency'' in California. But the economic downturn is breeding other defections from the ranks of ideological purists. The former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has said the financial crisis caused him to re-examine his free market views. Martin Feldstein, a top economic adviser to Ronald Reagan, now advocates big federal spending. Mr. Bush himself proposed a $700 billion bailout for financial institutions.
 Mr. Obama is the beneficiary, not the agent, of these changes. ''The center has moved,'' said Robert Borosage of the liberal Campaign for America's Future. As a result, said Peter Wehner, a onetime deputy to Mr. Rove who is now a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, ''Obama has more latitude when it comes to the role of government in the economy.'' 
 Mr. Wehner's hopes for Mr. Obama are pinned, to some extent, on hints Mr. Obama has dropped that he will forgo tax increases on affluent Americans. But that is precisely the kind of shift that worries a very different but also ideologically inflected group: Obama backers on the progressive left, particularly the legions who embraced his campaign on the Internet. ''I don't want him to split the difference,'' says Markos Moulitsas Zuniga, founder of the influential Web site DailyKos. 
 Mr. Borosage, for his part, frets that Mr. Geithner at Treasury may not support sufficiently rigorous regulation of financial institutions.
 All these pressures are likely to increase even as Mr. Obama tries to maintain the good will he has accumulated across an unusually broad swath of the political spectrum. 
 ''By combining reform with the big goals, the public will stick with him and Capitol Hill will stick with him,'' said John Podesta, who is directing Mr. Obama's transition team.
 This goal eluded another president, Bill Clinton, who also saw himself as a post-ideological leader. But some veterans of that administration believe that Mr. Obama may fare better. ''It is quite possible to see him as liberal and having an activist agenda, but being a type of leader who does not polarize partisans and finds ways of bringing people together to work on the things where they can find common ground,'' said Stanley B. Greenberg, a pollster in Mr. Clinton's White House. ''With this type of leader, the pent-up demand for action on the economy, health care and energy allows us to reach a series of big moments where many Republicans join the process and perhaps proposals pass with overwhelming majorities.''
 In the end, however, the possibilities for a politics that breaks traditional patterns may depend less on Mr. Obama's talents than on widespread weariness with the dogma of ideologues -- of the left and the right. 
 ''I would like to see us enter a post-ideological era in which policies are based on pragmatic considerations rather than conformity to a set of preconceptions rooted in a rapidly vanishing past,'' Judge Richard Posner, appointed by Mr. Reagan to the federal appeals court in 1981, wrote in a recent blog posting. He preceded that wish with this: ''I would be happy to see conservatism exit from the political scene -- provided it takes liberalism with it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about President-elect Barack Obama and whether his politics transcends partisanship quoted incorrectly from Thomas Jefferson's Inaugural Address of 1801, before the modern party system. He said, ''We are all Republicans, we are all Federalists,'' not ''We are all Republicans, we are all Democrats.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PALLING AROUND: Barack Obama is keeping Robert Gates at the Pentagon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)(WK2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JAMES L JONES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008



264 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Churches Pray for 'God's Bailout'

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Sunday service at Greater Grace Temple began with the Clark Sisters song ''I'm Looking for a Miracle'' and included a reading of this verse from the Book of Romans: ''I consider that our present sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that will be revealed in us.''
 Pentecostal Bishop Charles H. Ellis III, who shared the sanctuary's wide altar with three gleaming sport utility vehicles, closed his sermon by leading the choir and congregants in a boisterous rendition of the gospel singer Myrna Summers's ''We're Gonna Make It'' as hundreds of worshipers who work in the automotive industry -- union assemblers, executives, car salesmen -- gathered six deep around the altar to have their foreheads anointed with consecrated oil. 
 While Congress debated aid to the foundering Detroit automakers Sunday, many here whose future hinges on the decision turned to prayer.
 Outside the Corpus Christi Catholic Church, a sign beckoned passers-by inside to hear about ''God's bailout plan.'' Roman Catholic churches in the Detroit area distributed a four-page letter from Cardinal Adam Maida, the archbishop, offering ''some pastoral insights and suggestions about how we might prepare to celebrate Christmas this year when economic conditions are so grim.''
 In the letter, Cardinal Maida acknowledged that ''things in Michigan will probably never be the same'' but encourages the region's 1.3 million Catholics to maintain their faith. ''At this darkest time of the year, we proclaim that Christ is our light and Christ is our hope,'' he wrote.
 Last week Cardinal Maida gathered 11 Detroit-area religious leaders, representing Christian, Jewish and Muslim congregations, to call on Congress to approve the $34 billion in government-backed loans that the automakers have requested.
 At Greater Grace Temple, an 8,000-member Pentecostal church in northwest Detroit, the Sunday service was dedicated to addressing the uncertainty facing workers whose livelihood depends on the well-being of General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler. 
 ''We have never seen as midnight an hour as we face this coming week,'' Bishop Ellis said, referring to the possibility that Congress would soon vote on a deal to give the carmakers enough money to stay afloat into next year.
 ''I don't know what's going to happen, but we need prayer,'' he said. ''When it's all said and done, we're all in this thing together.''
 Greater Grace, the largest church in Detroit, invited officials from the United Automobile Workers union to speak before Bishop Ellis gave his sermon, titled ''A Hybrid Hope.'' 
 The S.U.V.'s on the stage, a Chevrolet Tahoe, Ford Escape and Chrysler Aspen on loan from local dealerships, were all gas-electric hybrids, and Bishop Ellis urged worshipers to combat the region's woes by mixing hope with faith in God.
 ''We have done all that we can do in this union, so I turn it over to the Lord,'' General Holiefield, a U.A.W. vice president for Chrysler, told the crowd. A vice president for the parts suppliers, James Settles Jr., asked those present ''to continue your prayers, so we can see a miracle next week.''
 Bishop Ellis encouraged the congregation to pray, not that Congress would ''do the right thing'' and approve loaning money to the car companies, but that Detroiters would ''make it'' through these tough times.
 ''We've got to keep the faith,'' said Mike Young, 47, who works for the Dana Corporation, a parts supplier, and has spent more than three months of this year on furlough. His factory, in the suburb of Auburn Hills, builds drive shafts for Chrysler, which has said it would soon run out of money without billions of dollars in aid from Congress. ''But you can't count on that,'' Mr. Young said. ''All my hope is in God.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Worshipers at Greater Grace Temple, a Pentecostal church in Detroit, prayed on Sunday for an automobile industry miracle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); RELIGION (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); CHRISTMAS (65%); APPROVALS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



265 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: New York Daybook

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Bring Your Dictionary
 Monday, 7:30 p.m. The hipsterish obsession with nostalgia (homburgs, knitting circles, jump-rope competitions) is partly a rejection of vapid modern culture, but also a distinctly wistful craving for a more authentic past. And what more authentic past to crave, in the throes of an unsatisfied adulthood, than the fourth grade? Thus, the finals of the Williamsburg Spelling Bee, where city sophisticates can forget their urbane worries by pretending to be a T-E-N-year-old in a B-A-R. Pete's Candy Store, 709 Lorimer Street, Brooklyn. 
 Danger in the Mundane
 Tuesday, 9:30 a.m. Here's a way to spend your morning: Sit in a hospital and listen to experts in the field of environmental pediatrics discussing how petroleum products and personal hygiene items may be a threat to your children's health. At least it's free. Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Annenberg Building, 1468 Madison Avenue, Manhattan.
 Foreclosure, in Depth
 Friday, 7:30 a.m. You are a sentient being with a TV set. You know that the economy is a smoldering ball of fire. Reaffirm that conclusion at a panel discussion on the foreclosure crisis hosted by Women in Housing and Finance. Topics include: demographics of the hardest-hit communities, impact on renters and the ever-cheerful subject of loan remediation. Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, New York University, 110 West Third Street, Manhattan.
 Soothe Your Soul
 Friday, 7 p.m. Then, just to perk the spirits up, duck into an interactive exploration of Sound Resonance and Souligraphy to celebrate the arrival of 12/12, also known (but then, of course, you knew this, too) as the Lemurian Paradise Frequency. Belief structures will be widened, hearts opened, true selves revealed. Nurture's Path Healing Arts Center, 1133 Broadway, Manhattan.
 Of Birds and Binoculars
 Saturday, 9 a.m. In a just world, flocks of starlings, wide-eyed and armed with Zeiss-Ikon binoculars, would alight each morning on the windowsills of Midtown and gaze in at the curious mammals who rule the world. As this is not a just world, there is the New York Botanical Garden's annual bird count, where -- well, you can figure it out. 2736 Marion Avenue, the Bronx.ALAN FEUER 
 Parking Rules
 Because of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception and Id al-Adha, alternate-side street-cleaning rules are suspended Monday to Wednesday.
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Paul LeClerc, president of the New York Public Library, will answer selected readers' questions about the library, its services and its future in an era of changing information needs. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear Wednesday on the blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A home in Colorado that is foreclosed and for sale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (85%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); LIBRARIES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); EID AL-ADHA (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



266 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (ABC) BOSTON LEGAL Strike up the funeral march. After five seasons this series calls it quits with a two-hour finale, which finds Crane Poole & Schmidt plunged into dire financial straits and forced to contemplate a buyer. Shirley Schmidt (Candice Bergen) and Carl Sack (John Larroquette) plan their nuptials, and Alan Shore (James Spader) heads to the Supreme Court to persuade it to allow Denny Crane (William Shatner, above right, with Mr. Spader) to take an unapproved drug that could slow the rapid progress of his Alzheimer's disease. But Denny has an important question for his friend.
7 A.M. (NBC) TODAY William Shatner makes the morning show rounds in support of his new talk show, ''Shatner's Raw Nerve.'' At 9 he moves to ''Live With Regis and Kelly'' on ABC. James Spader, Mr. Shatner's ''Boston Legal'' sidekick, appears on ''The Ellen DeGeneres Show'' at 10 a.m. on Channel 55 and 3 p.m. on NBC. 
8 P.M. (ABC) A CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS It never gets old: Charlie Brown and Linus search for the true meaning of the holiday.
8 P.M. (BBC America) TOP GEAR Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May begin an 11th season with a timely look at fuel economy, testing how far five different cars can go on one gallon of gasoline. The answer: not very. Mr. Clarkson demonstrates the impact of driving style on fuel use in a Toyota Prius and a BMW M3, and rates the lightweight Ferrari 430 Scuderia. The hosts are then challenged to make their own police cars from clunkers and test them out with a pedal-to-the-metal chase. The comedians Alan Carr and Justin Lee Collins try to appear average in the ''Star in a Reasonably Priced Car'' segment.
8 P.M. (CBS) THE BIG BANG THEORY When Leonard (Johnny Galecki) discovers that he can't say no to his new girlfriend (Sara Rue), he turns to Penny (Kaley Cuoco) for advice.
8 P.M. (Nickelodeon) THE WONDER PETS! The Pets make a prime-time appearance in ''Save the Nutcracker,'' in which a Mouse King emerges from a picture book on Christmas Eve and steals the Nutcracker from the Pets' classroom. Linny the Guinea Pig, Turtle Tuck and Ming-Ming Duckling go in pursuit through a wintry wonderland, accompanied by the strains of Tchaikovsky's ''Nutcracker.''
9 P.M. (Food Network) DEAR FOOD NETWORK Paula Deen, Tyler Florence, Sunny Anderson and Michael Symon produce recipes for their favorite holiday desserts -- things like Two Brothers chocolate gobs, gingerbread cookies with royal icing, spiced-honey semifreddo with dried fruit and almonds and white-hot chocolate.
9 P.M. (Fox) PRISON BREAK Michael (Wentworth Miller), Linc (Dominic Purcell) and the gang go up against Self (Michael Rapaport) and Gretchen (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe) for control of Scylla, while Mahone (William Fichtner) gets help from some former F.B.I. colleagues. Sara (Sarah Wayne Callies) ups the dosage of the drug she is giving Michael for his brain tumor, and T-Bag (Robert Knepper) keeps his grip on Gretchen's daughter and sister but insists he's as much a prisoner as anyone. Only in his own mind.
9 P.M. (Science) ECOPOLIS In this new series the scientist Daniel M. Kammen, left, tests new technologies that could help deal with the environmental issues that 21st-century megacities will face, starting with urban farming, methane capturing, sound-powered refrigeration and water recycling.
9 P.M. (Sundance) IN PRISON MY WHOLE LIFE (2007) Born on the day Mumia Abu-Jamal was arrested for killing a Philadelphia police officer, Dec. 9, 1981, William Francome has become absorbed by Mr. Abu-Jamal's case. This documentary, directed by Marc Evans and written by Mr. Evans and Mr. Francome, examines the arrest and sentencing of Mr. Abu-Jamal, who remains on death row in Pennsylvania, and includes interviews with Alice Walker, Noam Chomsky, Mos Def, Snoop Dogg and others.
9 P.M. (TLC) JON & KATE PLUS 8 Easier said than done: the Gosselin parents give their twins the opportunity to care for the sextuplets for a full day.
10 P.M. (E!) DUDES BRO: THE WHACKED OUT MEN OF REALITY TV No explanation needed for this episode of ''The Soup Presents.''
10 P.M. (National Geographic) TABOO The expression of love and sex in different societies: swingers in Australia, and a Chinese ethnic group that encourages, um, boldness. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); CHRISTMAS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (61%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (55%)

COMPANY: CRANE POOLE & SCHMIDT (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (53%); PAULA DEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



267 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Trouble in the Other Middle East

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. KAPLAN. 
Robert D. Kaplan is a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE divisions we split the world into during the cold war have at long last crumbled thanks to the Mumbai terrorist attacks. No longer will we view South Asia as a region distinct from the Middle East. Now there is only one long continuum stretching from the Mediterranean to the jungles of Burma, with every crisis from the Israeli-Palestinian dispute in the west to the Hindu-Muslim dispute in the east interlocked with the one next door. 
 Yet this elongated Greater Near East does not signify something new but something old. 
 For significant parts of medieval and early modern history, Delhi was under the same sovereignty as Kabul, yet under a different one from Bangalore. From the 16th to the 18th centuries, the Mughal dynasty, created by Muslims from Central Asia, governed a sprawling empire encompassing northern and central India, almost all of Pakistan and much of Afghanistan -- even as Hindu Maratha warriors in India's south held out against Mughal armies. India's whole history -- what has created its rich syncretic civilization of Turko-Persian gems like the Taj Mahal and the elaborate Hindu temples of Orissa -- is a story of waves of Muslim invaders in turn killing, interacting with and ultimately being influenced by indigenous Hindus. There is even a name for the kind of enchanting architecture that punctuates India and blends Islamic and Hindu styles: Indo-Saracenic, a reference to the Saracens, the term by which Arabs were known to Europeans of the Middle Ages.
 Hindu-Muslim relations have historically been tense. Remember that the 1947 partition of the subcontinent uprooted at least 15 million people and led to the violent deaths of around half a million. Given this record, the relatively peaceful relations between the majority Hindus and India's 150 million Muslims has been testimony to India's successful experiment in democracy. Democracy has so far kept the lid on an ethnic and religious divide that, while its roots run centuries back, has in recent years essentially become a reinvented modern hostility.
 The culprit has been globalization. The secular Indian nationalism of Jawaharlal Nehru's Congress Party, built around a rejection of Western colonialism, is more and more a thing of the past. As the dynamic Indian economy merges with that of the wider world, Hindus and Muslims have begun separate searches for roots to anchor them inside a bland global civilization. Mass communications have produced a uniform and severe Hinduism from a host of local variants, even as the country's economically disenfranchised Muslims are increasingly part of an Islamic world community. 
 The Muslim reaction to this Hindu nationalism has been less anger and violence than simple psychological withdrawal: into beards, skull caps and burkas in some cases; self-segregating into Muslim ghettos in others. The terrorist attacks in Mumbai had a number of aims, one of which was to set a fuse to this tense intercommunal standoff. The jihadists not only want to destroy Pakistan, they want to destroy India as well. India in their eyes is everything they hate: Hindu, vibrantly free and democratic, implicitly and increasingly pro-American, and militarily cozy with Israel. For Washington, this is no simple matter of defending Pakistan against chaos by moving troops from Iraq to Afghanistan. It is a whole region we are dealing with. Thus for the jihadists, the concept of a 9/11-scale attack on India was brilliant.
 Just as the chaos in Iraq through early 2007 threatened the post-Ottoman state system from Lebanon to Iran, creeping anarchy in Pakistan undermines not only Afghanistan but also the whole Indian subcontinent. The existence of terrorist outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba that have links with the Pakistani security apparatus but are outside the control of Pakistan's own civilian authorities is the very definition of chaos.
 A collapsing Pakistan, and with it the loss of any real border separating India from Afghanistan, is India's worst nightmare. It brings us back toward the borders of the Mughal world, but not in a peaceful way. Indeed, the route that intelligence agencies feel was taken by the fishing boat hijacked by the terrorists -- from Porbandar in India's Gujarat State, then north to Karachi in Pakistan, and then south to Mumbai -- follows centuries-old Indian Ocean trade routes.
 The jihadist attack on India's financial center not only damages Indian-Pakistani relations, but makes Pakistan's new civilian government -- which has genuinely tried to improve ties with India -- look utterly pathetic. Thus, the attack weakens both countries. Any understanding over Kashmir, the disputed Muslim-majority territory claimed by Pakistan, is now further than ever from materializing, with mass violence there a distinct possibility. 
 This, in turn, reduces the chance of an Indian-Pakistani rapprochement on Afghanistan, whose government Pakistan seeks to undermine and India sends millions of dollars in aid to help prop up. The Pakistani security services want a radical Islamized Afghanistan as a strategic rear base against India, while India wants a moderate, secular Afghanistan as a weapon against Pakistan.
 Pakistan is not only chaotic but dangerously lonely. Islam has not proved effective in bringing together its regionally based ethnic groups, and thus a resort to a fierce ideology as a unifying device among fundamentalist Muslims has been the country's signal tragedy. Meanwhile, Pakistan's military suspects that Washington will desert their nation the moment the leadership of Al Qaeda is, by any chance, killed or captured. 
 Making matters worse, every time the United States launches an air attack into Pakistan from Afghanistan, it further destabilizes the Pakistani state. That is why the Mumbai attacks bring true joy to the most dangerous elements of the Pakistani security establishment: the tragedy has caused the world to focus on India's weaknesses -- its lax security, its vulnerability to age-old maritime infiltration and, most of all, the constant threat of caste and tribal violence -- that have been obscured by its economic success. See, many Pakistanis are saying, your beloved India is not so stable either.
 This is nonsense, of course. India, with all its troubles, is far more stable than Pakistan. In the meantime, every day that goes by without riots in India is a defeat for the Mumbai terrorists. Indeed, India's own Muslims have demonstrated against the attacks.
 But India, not just Pakistan, desperately needs help. Just as solving or at least neutralizing the Israeli-Palestinian dispute is a requirement for reducing radicalism and Iranian influence throughout the Levant, the same is true of the Indian-Pakistani dispute at the other end of the Greater Middle East. Our notion of the ''peace process'' is antiquated and needs expanding. We need a second special negotiator for the Middle East, a skilled diplomat shuttling regularly among New Delhi, Islamabad and Kabul. (There has been some speculation, in fact, that Barack Obama is considering Richard Holbrooke, the former United Nations ambassador, for just such a job.)
 The Middle East is back to where it was centuries ago, not because of ancient hatreds but because of globalization. Instead of bold lines on a map we have a child's messy finger painting, as the circumvention of borders and the ease of communications allow the brisk movement of ideas and people and terrorists from one place to another. Our best strategy is, as difficult and trite as it sounds, to be at all places at once, Not with troops, necessarily, but with every bit of energy and constant attention that our entire national security apparatus -- and those of our allies -- can bring to bear.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KAREN BARBOUR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); HISTORY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); GLOBALIZATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (93%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); DELHI, INDIA (72%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); ASIA (93%); MYANMAR (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



268 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: In an Age-Old Quest for Balance, an Uncertain Shift

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: MAUNALOA, Hawaii 

 BODY:
 Scattered along the western stretch of the island of Molokai are the deserted structures of a vanquished people. This building with the title-free marquee was once a movie theater. That building, a luxurious lodge with a cow-ranch motif; notice the stop signs that say ''Whoa'' to nobody.
 Farther on, past the swimming pool now filled with sand, are the skeletal frames of what were known as tentalows. People once came from far away, paying handsomely too, for the chance to sleep behind canvas drapes, the Pacific within sight, the night stars almost within reach.
 These structures stand as eerie remnants of a years-long battle waged over the future of this island, an oasis of 7,500 with no traffic lights and no buildings taller than a coconut tree; with the state's highest unemployment and highest percentage of Native Hawaiians; with a sweet way of saying you are welcome to visit as long as you understand its ways. 
 On one side of the fight were the off-island owners of Molokai Ranch, a sprawl of property covering a third of Molokai's 260 square miles. They worked for years with some community members on a broad development proposal that included lots of jobs, the reopening of a closed hotel, the unheard-of donation of 26,000 acres for conservation. And this:
 The building of 200 luxury homes along a gorgeous oceanfront spot called La'au Point. The development, the owners said, was necessary to help pay for parts of the tantalizing plan.
 A 2006 marketing report described how ''an unspoiled oceanfront'' would attract people of means: ''For the ocean-view lots, this would generally require a net worth of at least $1 million, and for the oceanfront properties the market for real estate at La'au Point comes from the premium pentamillionaire ($5 million) market and above.''
 Opposing the plan was a majority of the Molokai community, including many who took pride in the island's long resistance to anything that might somehow make it less Hawaiian. The La'au Point proposal gave breath to their rallying cry of ''Keep Molokai Molokai.'' The property is sacred, they said, its crabs and limpets vital to their subsistence. It should be shared by the people who live on Molokai, not owned by people who do not.
 ''We're just caretakers,'' said Walter Ritte, 64, a veteran warrior against anything he thinks might despoil Molokai. ''That comes from our culture. The resources come first, and man comes second.''
 So began the Battle of Molokai Ranch. At stake: ''pono'' -- the Hawaiian concept for what is honorable, righteous, in balance.
 The matter of balance has loomed over Molokai Ranch ever since some businessmen bought the property more than a century ago. Over the years, local people needed the jobs created by the various uses of the property -- to raise livestock, grow crops, even serve as a wildlife park -- but they also resented the dominance of the ranch over land and culture.
 Owners came and went, parcels were bought and sold, development battles were won and lost. In the 1970s, protesters managed to thwart a plan to develop ranch land into a Honolulu suburb, with airport. But in the 1990s they failed to block the ranch's razing of historic homes in this old pineapple plantation town of Maunaloa, as well as the rising of the Molokai Ranch Lodge, a 22-room luxury hotel featuring the island's only elevator.
 The ranch's current owners, Molokai Properties, a subsidiary of GuocoLeisure Ltd. of Singapore, set out to improve its image. When dozens of jobs were lost in 2001 with the closing of the Kaluakoi Hotel, a few miles away, they bought the property, reopened the adjacent golf course and intimated that they would someday do the same with the hotel. They also invited the community to help shape a development plan for the ranch property, which was hemorrhaging millions of dollars a year.
 Ultimately, the ''Community Based Master Land Use Plan,'' with its sly appropriation of ''community,'' was developed, earning the endorsement of several elected officials, including Hawaii's governor, Linda Lingle.
 Thousands of acres of land to be donated. The resurrection of the Kaluakoi Hotel. The continuing operation of the Molokai Ranch Lodge, the golf course and other businesses. And that 200-lot luxury subdivision on 500 acres down at La'au Point.
 ''It wasn't going to be perfect; we all knew that,'' said John Sabas, 61, who grew up on Molokai and worked for a while as the ranch's communications manager. ''But it would set us on a path of providing a sustainable future for the island.''
 Others, though, chose the more familiar path of resistance. Some distrusted yet more outsiders promising a better future. Others feared disturbance of the holy compact between the land and its people.
 Asserting their own claim to the word ''community,'' they supplemented the local flora with colorful signs saying ''Save La'au'' and ''La'au Sacred.'' They staged an occupation at La'au Point. In dozens of meetings and hearings they challenged every aspect of the plan, every comma -- especially its proposed use of the island's precious water supply.
 Many feared that a subdivision at La'au Point would change more than the shoreline. ''If you have a lot of wealthy people moving in, who don't fathom life without a Starbucks, that starts to change the culture,'' explained Karen Holt, 56, an opposition leader and director of the Molokai Community Service Center. ''Don't just come and make it a pentamillionaire's estate.''
 In late March, the battle abruptly ended. Molokai Ranch, which was losing an estimated $300,000 a month, announced that it was shutting everything down: the hotel, the tentalows, the movie theater, the golf course, the development plans. More than 100 jobs lost, just like that.
 In explaining the decision to ''mothball'' the ranch, its chief executive, Peter Nicholas, said, ''Unacceptable delays caused by continued opposition to every aspect of the master plan means we are unable to fund continued normal company operations.''
 Today, nearly nine months later, the Kaluakoi Hotel remains deserted, the ocean view from its Ohia Lodge enjoyed by no one. A few miles away, glorious spider webs stretch undisturbed on the grounds of the closed Molokai Ranch Lodge. The quiet in western Molokai seems both natural and unnatural.
 The ranch's owners, who apparently anticipated the current economic free fall, have not revealed their plans for the third of Molokai they own. ''At this time we simply are putting the past behind us and are moving forward,'' a spokesman said by e-mail, though he did not say what ''moving forward'' means.
 Here on the island, words said in the past still sting for some, but are forgiven or forgotten by others. Mr. Ritte and Mr. Sabas, who as younger men fought together against other development plans for Molokai, spoke to each other the other day. Each still maintains that his was the just cause.
 Some, including Mr. Ritte and Ms. Holt, harbor dreams of buying Molokai Ranch and restoring much of the land as a low dryland forest, which they say would replenish the water supply and ultimately make Molokai more self-sufficient. A wind-farm company has already promised to chip in $50 million, though several times that would be needed.
 But no one knows whether the ranch would even sell to its adversaries. And beyond matters of fair market value, there is another challenge: achieving this elusive thing called pono.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARADISE SUSPENDED: A battle over development on Molokai, in the Hawaiian Islands, ended abruptly last spring when the owners of Molokai Ranch, which covers a third of the island, shut down operations and construction plans. Above are the abandoned frames of tentalows, which offered tourists the expensive opportunity to sleep near the ocean and beneath the stars.
Karen Holt said she feared that luxury homes would change the island's culture.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16)
 MAP: Map details the development area of La'au Point in Maunaloa, Hawaii.(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



269 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Senator Addresses Concerns Of Upstate

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Moving to reassure upstate officials worried about their region's loss of influence in Albany, Malcolm A. Smith, the incoming leader of the State Senate, will appoint a veteran Buffalo lawmaker to a senior leadership post, an aide to Mr. Smith said on Sunday.
 The lawmaker, Senator William T. Stachowski, would become deputy majority leader, one of the Senate's top positions. A longtime ally of Mr. Smith who faced a stiff election challenge this year, Mr. Stachowski was previously the ranking Democrat on the powerful Senate Finance Committee. 
 But Mr. Stachowski was due to lose that post under a handshake deal between Mr. Smith and three Democrats who for weeks had threatened to form a coalition with Senate Republicans, leaving Mr. Smith without enough votes to form a majority.
 That deal, reached on Thursday, will make Mr. Smith the Senate president pro tempore, a constitutional office that makes him the Senate's leader. The title of majority leader will probably go to Senator-elect Pedro Espada Jr. of the Bronx, one of the three dissident Democrats. Another of the three, Senator Carl Kruger of Brooklyn, is set to replace Mr. Stachowski as chairman of the Finance Committee.
 But the appointment of Mr. Stachowski to deputy majority leader leaves uncertain the fate of Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat who is among the party's best fund-raisers. Mr. Klein is currently Mr. Smith's deputy minority leader. The aide to Mr. Smith, Juanita Scarlett, said that Mr. Klein might become the Senate vice president pro tem, though it is unclear what powers and responsibilities that position would entail. 
 Mr. Stachowski's promotion would make him one of the few high-ranking elected officials in New York who are not from New York City or Long Island. He did not return a call for comment.
 ''The focus of the Democratic Senate Conference is reversing the economic decline of upstate and western New York,'' Ms. Scarlett said. ''In his new leadership role and chairmanship, Senator Bill Stachowski will be able to deliver like never before for the people of Buffalo.''
 Mr. Stachowski's impending title reflects the furious jockeying that has been set off by Mr. Smith's deal with the so-called Gang of Three. By granting what appears to be significant power to the three dissidents, Mr. Smith cemented his climb to the Senate's top job. But he also unraveled a delicate web of alliances and deals with other Democrats.
 During the years of Republican control in the Senate, the titles of majority leader and president pro tem were jointly held by the chamber's top senator, currently Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican. Deputy majority leader, the job that Mr. Klein was previously expected to fill, was the chamber's second most powerful position. 
 But in practical terms, power and responsibility in the Senate are divided according to rules that a majority of the Senate must vote to put in place at the beginning of each legislative session. That gives Mr. Smith considerable flexibility in fine-tuning the roles of each Democrat.
 Mr. Stachowski, who has served in the Senate since 1981, angered some of his fellow Democrats this year by failing to campaign or raise money aggressively for his own-re-election, provoking a spirited challenge. Mr. Smith was forced to devote significant time and money defending the seat, which Mr. Stachowski ultimately held.
 Word of Mr. Stachowski's promotion followed a private meeting in Manhattan on Saturday between Mr. Smith and other Senate Democrats, many of whom appear uncomfortable giving away so much power. According to several of those present, Mr. Smith insisted, as he had publicly, that the only firm element of the deal with the dissidents was to back him as Senate president.
 But Mr. Espada, Mr. Kruger and the third member of their bloc, Senator Ruben Diaz Sr. of the Bronx, have said publicly that Mr. Smith has already agreed, among other concessions, to make Mr. Espada the majority leader and Mr. Kruger the Senate finance chairman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



270 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Stoking Fear Everywhere You Look

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
With unemployment figures beginning to resemble a mushroom cloud and the Fed running out of card tricks, I told a friend we were going to spend the weekend at my house making hard choices -- scrutinizing every expense, eliminating spending where we could and downsizing at every turn. 
 ''Really,'' he said. ''What has changed at your house?''
 Well, nothing really -- I might toil in a threatened industry, but my ID card still works when I go to the office and my wife is prospering in a job she loves. But like everyone else, I am making my way through a data cloud that is crackling with panic. 
 The other day, I got in a cab and there was a news report on the back seat television about soaring unemployment in New York. An info-screen on an ascending elevator ride in Manhattan suggested that we were all only going one way -- down. The news zippers in Times Square were full of reports of crumbling consumer confidence even as people streamed in to the stores beneath them. 
 Once I made it to my office, it got worse. An RSS feed from Reuters was waiting on my desktop saying, ''U.S. employers axed 533,000 jobs from payrolls in November, the most in 34 years.'' My e-mail inbox not only included a note from a friend that she had been laid off, but it was flanked by contextual ads from Google labeled ''Unemployed?'' 
 I have a pal who is persistently I.M.-ing me because he is at loose ends after being laid off, and my social networks are rife with digital fretting and various versions of, 'Did you hear about so-and-so?' Why, yes I did. Over and over. 
 Every modern recession includes a media seance about how horrible things are and how much worse they will be, but there have never been so many ways for the fear to leak in. The same digital dynamics that drove the irrational exuberance -- and marketed the loans to help it happen -- are now driving the downside in unprecedented ways. 
 The recession was actually not officially declared until last week, but the psychology that drives it had already been e-mailed, blogged and broadcast for months. I used to worry that my TiVo thought I was gay -- doesn't everyone enjoy a little ''Project Runway'' at the end of a long, hard week? Now I worry that my browser knows I am about to lose my job. 
 ''When everyone is talking about recession, we all feel like something has to change, even if nothing has changed for us,'' said Dan Ariely, author of ''Predictably Irrational,'' a book that explains why people do things that defy explanation. ''The media messages that are repeating doom and gloom affect every one, not just people who really have trouble and should make changes, but people who are fine. That has a devastating effect on the economy.''
 With unemployment, auto sales, home foreclosures and consumer confidence all benchmarking historic levels of distress, news outlets are hardly making it up. But the machinery of the economy began to freeze in place far more quickly than it has in the past, in part because so much scary data is circulating so much faster than it used to. This recession got deeper faster because we knew more bad stuff quickly.
 ''Our collective hive-mind gets into a tizzy over other things that suddenly zoom into focus,'' said Xeni Jardin, one of the editors of the blog Boing-Boing. ''It's a hurricane! OMG, salmonella in the hamburgers! Wait, we're all fat! There is an escalation of attention that feeds itself, because this recession is appearing throughout all forms of digital human expression. And unlike any of those other topics, this affects everyone.''
 Nobody fears getting caught out on a down cycle more than those who run public companies, and defensive layoffs -- not based so much on current realities but on horrors to come -- have become the norm. Last week, speaking at the Reuters Media Summit, Barry Diller, the chief executive of IAC/Interactive, chided the leaders of entertainment economies for the kind of panic and greed-driven right-sizing that was anything but. 
 ''The idea of a company that's earning money, not losing money, that's not, let's say, 'industrially endangered,' to have just cutbacks so they can earn another $12 million or $20 million or $40 million in a year where no one's counting is really a horrible act when you think about it on every level,'' he said. ''First of all, it's certainly not necessary. It's doing it at the worst time. It's throwing people out to a larger, what is inevitably a larger, unemployment heap for frankly no good reason.''
 Media companies have been hammered on the leading edge of the recession because they run on advertising, a discretionary expenditure that always is among the first things to go. Viacom had third-quarter earnings of over $400 million in 2008, down 37 percent compared with the same quarter last year, but it was still nicely profitable. Nonetheless, the company laid off 850 people.
 Michelle Rabinowitz, a producer at MTV News, was one of them. A Web and pop-cult savvy journalist who has covered everything from Britney Spears to the shootings at Virginia Tech, she is, at 28, just the kind of talent media companies fought over in the last couple of years and will again in the future. But for now, they're dumping bodies off the back of the truck.
 ''A lot of young people had to find jobs after 9/11, so we know about tough times, but at least we know what that was about,'' she said. ''I go outside and the sky is not falling, but my job is not there, the value of the apartment that I bought is not there, my 401(k) is not there. It's weird, it's like somebody made a bad decision somewhere -- the Federal Reserve, a media company, an executive, who knows? Everything sort of looks the same, but everything has changed.''
 There is a kind of emotional contagion afoot. James H. Fowler, an associate professor at the University of California, San Diego, recently co-wrote a study looking at how happiness can be spread among friends. The opposite is true as well.
 ''There are studies on bank runs, and it shows that people who know others who have taken their money out of the bank are much more likely to do it as well,'' he said. ''We always overshoot the upside and, because of the same contagious effects, we overshoot the downside. Everything is fine, and then all of the sudden we are looking for water and supplies to ride out the coming storm.''
 Courtesy of the media, we no longer have to be obsessed to be neurotic: the neurosis comes to us. On CNN.com, I came across this scary bit about Paul Nawrocki, a former toy company executive who takes a 90-minute train ride into New York to walk the streets with a sandwich board. ''Almost homeless,'' reads the sign. ''Looking for employment. Very experienced operations and administration manager.'' 
 I'm already working on mine. ''Will write for food.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



271 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: In Washington, Some Optimism About a Big Three Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
IN the days before Lehman Brothers was allowed to fail, Treasury officials made clear that they did not think the investment bank's collapse would have a major ripple effect.
 And in recent weeks, in Congressional hearing rooms and at water coolers across the country, a lot of people have been saying the same thing about Detroit's beleaguered automakers.
 What Lehman's failure shows, supporters of the Big Three bailout contend, is that there can be unanticipated consequences of allowing a major company to go under, and the full extent of the risks becomes clear only after the fact -- when it can be too late to contain the fallout. 
 Over the weekend, Congressional leaders and the Bush administration provisionally agreed to a bailout in which some $17 billion in taxpayer money would be used to keep General Motors and Chrysler afloat. Ford, meanwhile, says it does not need immediate federal aid. 
 But some lawmakers and economists continue to argue that General Motors and Chrysler are too far gone to be saved and that trying to bail them out amounts to throwing away taxpayer dollars. Moreover, those lawmakers warn that rushing to the rescue with federal money will reward the automakers for years of poor management and myopic decisions, like producing gas guzzlers.
 Back in September, Treasury officials similarly argued that bailing out Lehman would have wrongly rewarded it for its bad behavior and excessive risk-taking, and thereby would have given the nation's financial sector a green light for future bad behavior.
 Seeing how Lehman's collapse shocked the stock and credit markets, Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG, an investment firm, cautioned that not bailing out the Big Three could prove short-sighted.
 ''It's very different from Lehman because you don't have the systemic financial system risk, but it would be equally stupid,'' Mr. Barbera said. ''If Congress allows the auto companies to fail and with the effect that this would have on sales and production, what this means to the real economy will have instantaneous and brutal effects on the stock market.''
 In other words, Mr. Barbera warned that opposition to lending either the $17 billion agreed to -- or the $34 billon that the car companies originally requested -- could result in the stock markets' plunging by hundreds of billions of dollars. And that does not include the billions of dollars in unemployment insurance benefits and pension bailouts that would be required to assist not just the displaced auto workers, but also the many other workers, like truck drivers and waitresses, whose jobs depend on the Big Three.
 ''There will be tremendous regret if we don't help them avoid bankruptcy in the next few weeks or months,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody'sEconomy.com. ''If they go into bankruptcy now, they'll go into liquidation and there will be the loss of hundreds of thousands, if not a million, jobs -- on top of the four or five million we're going to lose. That will add almost a point to unemployment by itself.''
 At a House Committee hearing Friday about Detroit's woes, Edward I. Altman, a professor of finance at New York University, recommended that the automakers enter bankruptcy reorganization. Through such a move, he said, the automakers could sharply cut their costs by negotiating deals with their creditors, dealers and labor unions. 
 Many supporters of a bailout say that filing for bankruptcy reorganization could quickly lead to liquidation because car buyers might lose faith in the companies and worry that their auto warranties would not be honored. 
 Professor Altman said that large-scale debtor-in-possession lending -- either by the federal government or banks that would have priority over other creditors -- could help keep the automakers operating (and guaranteeing their warranties) as they reorganize and reduce costs on the way to regaining their competitiveness. 
 He said a revamping, helped by such financing under the bankruptcy laws, could actually reassure the stock market that ''the damage can be minimized with a large debtor-in-possession financing'' because ''there will be more assurance that G.M. will be around for a long time.''
 Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the House Committee on Financial Services, which held Friday's hearing, warned against a wholesale liquidation, saying it would jeopardize three million jobs. Yet he also opposed a federal bailout ''because it's just taking money and putting it into an inefficient operation and that money will be simply washed down the drain.''
 Mr. Bachus voiced confidence that bankruptcy filings by one or more auto company would not cause markets to plunge. ''I think a restructuring plan done with the protection of certain benefits of bankruptcy might be positively perceived,'' he said.
 But Mr. Barbera warned against overconfidence, saying that Treasury officials thought they would carefully exact only a pound of flesh from Wall Street by letting Lehman fail, helping teach other investment banks not to take excessive risks. 
 ''But,'' he said, ''it turned out not to be a pound of flesh that was taken. It was a ton.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



272 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Deepen Economic Ties Between India and Pakistan Is on Hold in Wake of Attacks

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
The three-day siege of Mumbai, for which India blames a Pakistani extremist group, has derailed plans for increasing economic ties between the countries.
 Last September, in what was seen as a promising attempt by the historical rivals at rapprochement, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India and President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan announced a trade agreement on the sidelines of the United NationsGeneral Assembly in New York. 
 The two countries agreed to allow freight trains to carry goods between them for the first time since their violent partition in 1947, when trains carried bodies of slain and maimed refugees across the border. 
 The list of allowed trade goods was to be expanded from 13 items to 1,938, including goods such as textiles and tea. At the land border at Wagah, customs checkpoints were being refurbished in anticipation of a wide expansion of cross-border trade.
 In January 2009, the commerce secretaries of the two countries were scheduled to hold talks about expanding trade, and in February 2009, New Delhi, the Indian capital, was to host a trade show called Made in Pakistan, with a display of Pakistani goods approved for import to India. 
 They were all small but concrete measures designed to build confidence between the countries, among the few tangible fruits of the peace talks that India and Pakistan initiated in early 2004, after their armies nearly went to war in 2001. 
 ''All this is on hold, if not off,'' Jairam Ramesh, India's junior minister for commerce, said Sunday. ''Four years of sincere and bold initiatives from both sides have been put on pause mode. The momentum is badly affected.'' 
 On India and Pakistan's long road of rivalry and reconciliation, how long this current tension will last or where it will lead remains unclear. 
 Armed hostility between the nuclear-armed neighbors seems unlikely. They have fought three wars in 60 years. 
 Indian officials, though, have hinted that the terrorist strikes on Mumbai could lead to a suspension of peace talks. What progress had been made on trade, a relatively noncontroversial area of cooperation, has been halted in its tracks. India-Pakistan trade hovers around $2 billion, a fraction of its potential, economists on both sides say.
 The September agreement included a resumption of trade between the Indian- and Pakistani-controlled portions of the disputed Kashmir. That trade, principally in apples and rice, began last October and, according to an official on the Indian side, continued uninterrupted even after the attacks.
 India-Pakistan relations had begun to deteriorate even before the attacks on Mumbai, India's financial capital. India complained of shots being fired across the de facto border in Kashmir; a spate of terrorist attacks across India raised hackles there; and in July, relations seemed to hit rock bottom when the Indian Embassy in Kabul was bombed. Indian and American intelligence officials said Pakistan's spy agency helped plan the attack. 
 India has not directly blamed the elected government of Pakistan for the Mumbai attacks, but it has said repeatedly that it expects Mr. Zardari to take swift steps to rein in terrorist groups operating in its territory. 
 Mr. Ramesh said Sunday that he hoped that the countries could soon resume talks on deepening economic ties. 
 Since peace talks began in early 2004, there have been several small breakthroughs. Tourist traffic between the countries has soared. Indian films opened in Pakistani movie theaters for the first time in 40 years. Pakistani ghazal singers filled Indian concert halls. 
 But few concrete disputes have been cracked. Even when it seemed that the two sides were close to an agreement, mistrust and violence stymied a breakthrough. 
 In October, after the two leaders met in New York, Pakistan's national security adviser, Mahmud Ali Durrani, met his counterpart in India, M. K. Narayanan. Mr. Durrani described the history of India and Pakistan as a long list of ''missed opportunities.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); TRAINS (71%); REFUGEES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); ESPIONAGE (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



273 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Twitter's Dance With Facebook

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAINE MILLER

 BODY:
Twitter's Dance
 With Facebook
 For now, a marriage between Twitter and Facebook is not meant to be -- but the courtship between the two Web 2.0 companies could be rekindled. That was one message from Evan Williams, the chief executive and co-founder of Twitter, in a talk at the Churchill Club in San Francisco last week. 
 Serious talks between the Facebook social network and the Twitter microblogging service started soon after Mr. Williams, below, took over as chief executive on Oct. 16. Twitter reportedly rejected Facebook's $500 million offer, mostly in stock, several weeks ago.
 ''We explored it, as we should. We took it seriously,'' Mr. Williams said. ''It definitely made sense -- the strategy we talked about with them -- but it wasn't the right time.'' In the end, he said, Twitter decided it had too much left to do, beginning with figuring out how to make money.
 ''Maybe we'll see each other in the marketplace,'' Mr. Williams said.
 Twitter, which lets users broadcast messages of up to 140 characters via cellphone or the Web, has raised $20 million from venture capitalists. It has brought in no significant revenue, choosing growth over everything else. Mr. Williams said he had planned to raise more capital in mid-2009 and not worry about revenue until 2010.
 The recession changed that strategy, Mr. Williams said. ''I don't want to have to raise money in 2009.'' Revenue is now a priority for the first quarter of next year.
 Mr. Williams said Twitter planned to avoid making money from ads. Instead, it will figure out a way to charge businesses that use Twitter to talk with customers or sell products. Companies like JetBlue Airways, Dell and Whole Foods Market have used Twitter in these ways.
 So far, though, ''we haven't studied the business cases much,'' he said. ''We literally have no business people in the company, so this isn't an area we're really focused on.''
 Mr. Williams said that, despite its buzz, Twitter is still a tiny, two-year-old company with just 25 employees. ''It's good that the expectations are high, but give us a minute,'' he said.
 CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA MORISHIGE WILLIAMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); WEB 2 (90%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (65%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (65%); WFM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (65%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



274 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: The Freedoms Behind a Touch Screen

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
AMONG international outrages, depriving citizens of personalized maps seems far down on the list. 
 Still, that was the condition put on the introduction of Apple's 3G iPhone in Egypt. The government demanded that Apple disable the phone's global-positioning system, arguing that GPS is a military prerogative.
 The company apparently complied, most likely taking a cue from the telecom companies that sell the phone there, said Ahmed Gabr, who runs a blog in Egypt, gadgetsarabia.com, and wrote about the iPhone's release there. ''The point is that using a GPS unit you can get accurate coordinates of any place and thus military bases and so on could be easily tagged,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. 
 I met Mr. Gabr last summer in Alexandria, Egypt, at the worldwide conference for Wikipedia. He was typical of the young Egyptians in attendance -- hungry for new technology, hopeful about what it would mean for their country. 
 As much as any country, however, Egypt illustrates the push-me-pull-you nature of technology under an oppressive government. Young people flock to Facebook, in a way I never could have imagined. For the largest Arab country in the world, it was a way for the educated elite to reach out to one another and to those who had left the country for an even more elite education.
 Andrew Bossone, an American in Cairo who writes about technology, said that despite its expense, the iPhone in Egypt was ''really popular -- everyone knows the iPhone.'' In addition to editing a technology magazine, he teaches at American University. ''One of my students who comes from a wealthy family has the iPhone and one of my designers, who is not rich, bought it on credit,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bossone says he thinks the government will relent on issues like GPS because it will side with business even at the expense of security concerns. 
 ''The economy is itself a security issue,'' he said. ''The slower the economy grows, the more people become discontented, and that is a security issue.''
 But thus far, each time technology has promised to help introduce democracy to the country, the young peoples' hopes have been dashed. A movement for political reform that used Facebook to organize protests over the spring was shut down. The authorities cracked down, jailing many of its organizers. In the last few weeks, a blogger affiliated with the radical group Muslim Brotherhood was arrested for his writings, according to the Arabic Network for Human Rights. Another blogger is being held in a military camp, the group says.
 It is enough to make one ask if new technologies -- the personal computer, the World Wide Web, the all-powerful smartphone -- will help set us free or merely give us that illusion.
 Apple modified its phone without any public acknowledgment. In a series of e-mail exchanges and brief telephone conversations, an Apple spokeswoman detailed the success of the iPhone rollout around the world -- a total of 13 million phones shipped since it was introduced in June 2007, and more than 200 million applications downloaded. 
 But she did not answer how the iPhone came to be disabled and whether Apple had a policy it followed in modifying its products to meet the demands of governments worldwide.
 This issue remains keenly relevant as Apple negotiates the introduction of the iPhone to China, whose estimated 500 million users make it the big kahuna of cellphone markets. Some reports say that in addition to issues like revenue sharing, there has been talk about modifying the phone so as not to use the 3G network or offer Wi-Fi capability.
 Mr. Gabr described in his e-mail message what he considered to be the faulty rationale for the policy in Egypt. 
 ''From a technical point of view, this is totally pointless because Google Maps works flawlessly here -- you can even get a clear snap (with accurate coordinates) of places you're not supposed to see.''
 As an aside, he said that months ago he ''bought an American iPhone 3G via eBay'' with full functionality. ''Cheaper, earlier and without compromise,'' he wrote, signing his note with a self-satisfied smiley-face.
 I must admit, I didn't exactly think that the right to GPS was one of the Four Freedoms. But Arvind Ganesan, director of the business and human rights program of Human Rights Watch, placed the issue in a larger context.
 First, he described freedom of information as part of the broader, better known, freedom of expression. Transparency about the government's budget, for example, can be crucial to eliminating corruption and instituting democratic reforms.
 And second, he argued that it was important for technology companies to set principles and follow them. ''Here is the big question for Apple: Is this an ad-hoc approach or is there a fundamental policy, balancing the freedom of expression and information with the demands of the government?''
 It is easy to get swept up in the utopianism embedded in new technologies. That we will be more politically engaged because of the organizing and fund-raising tools of social networking; that we will think greater thoughts now that anyone can have access to nearly everything ever written; that our tribal hatreds will melt away as the world recognizes that we genuinely are all connected.
 Even those like Mr. Ganesan, who see technology abused, are cautiously hopeful. ''Technologies do not hold people accountable. They give people the tools to hold people accountable.'' But he added: ''We believe as a human rights group that the Internet can have an opening and transforming effect.'' 
 When Human Rights Watch was founded in 1978, he said, people were ''smuggling letters by hand from the Soviet Union -- that was how the world found out about a dissident.'' Today, there is a range of tools for spreading the word, from blogs to e-mail to YouTube videos.
 ''We may not know what the maximum impact of openness is,'' he said. ''But we do know that in the most closed places the worst things happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ahmed Gabr, a blogger in Egypt, said he bought his 3G iPhone on eBay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); 3G WIRELESS (89%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); ARRESTS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (78%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



275 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Video: Selling Luxury and Cutting Costs
 In a video, Nelson Schwartz profiles Bulgari, the luxury goods maker, as it tries to sell its wares to a global public increasingly worried about its fiscal future. The first recession in luxury-goods sales in nearly 20 years has forced companies like Bulgari, Burberry, Cartier and Montblanc to modify their traditional focus on glamour and glitter, and start thinking about cutting costs. 
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: CRITICS' CHOICE: HANDPICKED CDS
 Audio clips of new releases from Common (''Universal Mind Control''), Omara Portuondo (''Gracias'') and Musiq Soulchild, above, (''OnMyRadio''). 
 nytimes.com/music
 City Room
 Question and Answer: The New York Library
 This week, the president of the New York Public Library, Paul LeClerc, will be answering readers' questions about the present and future of the institution.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 TALK TO THE NEWSROOM
 Connie Rosenblum, editor of the weekly City section, will spend this week fielding reader questions about New York City. Submit your question to: askthetimes@nytimes.com
 nytimes.com/askthetimes
 TIMES EXTRA
 An alternative view of the home page featuring additional coverage from other newspapers, news sources and blogs, linked beneath the main news stories.
 nytimes.com/extra
 A YULETIDE TOPIC: THE CHRISTMAS TREE
 Times Topics gathers all there is to know about the Christmas tree, including its history, a buying guide, recent features about trees in New York and around the world and articles from The Times's archive dating to 1884. Above are some stand-out trees from around the world (not to scale). From left to right: the National Christmas Tree near the White House; a tree in Seoul, South Korea; a Christmas tree in front of Cathedral Hall in downtown Vilnius, Lithuania; a fixture in the shape of a Christmas tree near the Atocha train station in central Madrid and the Rockefeller Center's Christmas Tree on Dec. 3 of this year, in the center's 76th annual lighting.
 nytimes.com/topics
 SLIDESHOW: RIOTING IN GREECE
 Images and video of police officers and youths battling on the streets of Athens and the northern Greek city of Thessaloniki. In Athens, dozens of shops and vehicles were burned in a second day of rioting after a teenager was shot by the police.
 nytimes.com/world

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMELA PANTZARTZI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RIOTS (84%); LIBRARIES (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); RECESSION (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: BULGARI SPA (92%)

TICKER: BUL (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (92%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) GREECE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); LITHUANIA (87%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



276 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Back at Junk Value, Recyclables Are Piling Up

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
Trash has crashed.
 The economic downturn has decimated the market for recycled materials like cardboard, plastic, newspaper and metals. Across the country, this junk is accumulating by the ton in the yards and warehouses of recycling contractors, which are unable to find buyers or are unwilling to sell at rock-bottom prices.
 Ordinarily the material would be turned into products like car parts, book covers and boxes for electronics. But with the slump in the scrap market, a trickle is starting to head for landfills instead of a second life. 
 ''It's awful,'' said Briana Sternberg, education and outreach coordinator for Sedona Recycles, a nonprofit group in Arizona that recently stopped taking certain types of cardboard, like old cereal, rice and pasta boxes. There is no market for these, and the organization's quarter-acre yard is already packed fence to fence. 
 ''Either it goes to landfill or it begins to cost us money,'' Ms. Sternberg said.
 In West Virginia, an official of Kanawha County, which includes Charleston, the state capital, has called on residents to stockpile their own plastic and metals, which the county mostly stopped taking on Friday. In eastern Pennsylvania, the small town of Frackville recently suspended its recycling program when it became cheaper to dump than to recycle. In Montana, a recycler near Yellowstone National Park no longer takes anything but cardboard.
 There are no signs yet of a nationwide abandonment of recycling programs. But industry executives say that after years of growth, the whole system is facing an abrupt slowdown.
 Many large recyclers now say they are accumulating tons of material, either because they have contracts with big cities to continue to take the scrap or because they are banking on a price rebound in the next six months to a year.
 ''We're warehousing it and warehousing it and warehousing it,'' said Johnny Gold, senior vice president at the Newark Group, a company that has 13 recycling plants across the country. Mr. Gold said the industry had seen downturns before but not like this. ''We never saw this coming.''
 The precipitous drop in prices for recyclables makes the stock market's performance seem almost enviable. 
 On the West Coast, for example, mixed paper is selling for $20 to $25 a ton, down from $105 in October, according to Official Board Markets, a newsletter that tracks paper prices. And recyclers say tin is worth about $5 a ton, down from $327 earlier this year. There is greater domestic demand for glass, so its price has not fallen as much.
 This is a cyclical industry that has seen price swings before. The scrap market in general is closely tied to economic conditions because demand for some recyclables tracks closely with markets for new products. Cardboard, for instance, turns into the boxes that package electronics, rubber goes to shoe soles, and metal is made into auto parts.
 One reason prices slid so rapidly this time is that demand from China, the biggest export market for recyclables from the United States, quickly dried up as the global economy slowed. China's influence is so great that in recent years recyclables have been worth much less in areas of the United States that lack easy access to ports that can ship there. 
 The downturn offers some insight into the forces behind the recycling boom of recent years. Environmentally conscious consumers have been able to pat themselves on the back and feel good about sorting their recycling and putting it on the curb. But most recycling programs have been driven as much by raw economics as by activism. 
 Cities and their contractors made recycling easy in part because there was money to be made. Businesses, too -- like grocery chains and other retailers -- have profited by recycling thousands of tons of materials like cardboard each month. 
 But the drop in prices has made the profits shrink, or even disappear, undermining one rationale for recycling programs and their costly infrastructure.
 ''Before, you could be green by being greedy,'' said Jim Wilcox, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Now you've really got to rely more on your notions of civic participation.'' 
 The impact of the downturn on individual recycling efforts varies. Most cities are keeping their recycling programs, in some cases because they are required by law, but also because the economics, while they have soured, still favor recycling over landfills. 
 In New York City, for instance, the city is getting paid $10 for a ton of paper, down from $50 or more before October, but it has no plans to cease recycling, said Robert Lange, the city's recycling director. In Boston, one of the hardest-hit markets, prices are down to $5 a ton, and the city expects it will soon have to pay to unload its paper. But city officials said that would still be better than paying $80 a ton to put it in a landfill.
 Some small towns are refusing to recycle some material, particularly the less lucrative plastics and metals, and experts say more are likely to do so if the price slump persists. 
 Businesses and institutions face their own challenges and decisions. Harvard, for instance, sends mixed recyclables -- including soda bottles and student newspapers -- to a nearby recycling center that used to pay $10 a ton. In November, Harvard received two letters from the recycler, the first saying it would begin charging $10 a ton and the second saying the price had risen to $20.
 ''I haven't checked my mail today, but I hope there isn't another one in there,'' said Rob Gogan, the recycling and waste manager for the university's facilities division. He said he did not mind paying as long as the price was less than $87 a ton, the cost for trash disposal.
 The collapse of the market is slowing the momentum of recycling overall, said Mark Arzoumanian, editor in chief of Official Board Markets. He said the problem would hurt individual recycling businesses, but also major retailers, like Wal-Mart Stores, that profit by selling refuse.
 Mr. Arzoumanian said paper mills in China and the United States that had signed contracts requiring them to buy recycled paper were seeking wiggle room, invoking clauses that cover extraordinary circumstances. ''They are declaring 'force majeure,' which is a phrase I'd never thought I'd hear in paper recycling,'' he said.
 Mr. Arzoumanian and others said mills were also starting to become pickier about what they take in, rejecting cardboard and other products that they say are ''contaminated'' by plastic ties or other material. 
 The situation has also been rough on junk poachers -- people who made a profitable trade of picking off cardboard and other refuse from bins before the recycling trucks could get to it. Those poachers have shut their operations, said Michael Sangiacomo, chief executive of Norcal Waste Systems, a recycling and garbage company that serves Northern California.
 ''I knew it was really bad a few weeks ago when our guys showed up and the corrugated cardboard was still there,'' he said. ''People started calling, saying 'You didn't pick up our cardboard,' and I said, 'We haven't picked up your cardboard for years.' ''
 The recycling slump has even provoked a protest of sorts. At Ruthlawn Elementary School in South Charleston, W.V., second-graders who began recycling at the school in September were told that the program might be discontinued. They chose to forgo recess and instead use the time to write letters to the governor and mayor, imploring them to keep recycling, Rachel Fisk, their teacher, said.
 The students' pleas seem to have been heard; the city plans to start trucking the recyclables to Kentucky.
 ''They were telling them, 'We really don't care what you say about the economy. If you don't recycle, our planet will be dirty,' '' Ms. Fisk said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We never saw this coming,'' said Johnny Gold, an official of the Newark Group, at the company's plant in Salem, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Overloaded at Recycle Fibers of New Jersey. Across the country, materials like paper and cardboard are accumulating by the ton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (91%); LANDFILLS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (87%); SEDONA, AZ, USA (71%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); MONTANA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



277 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2305 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: December 8, 2008

 BODY:
International
 AFTER MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS, 
 Indian Muslims Seek Solidarity
 Crowds of Indian Muslims marched through Mumbai and several other cities, denouncing terrorism and proclaiming their loyalty to the Indian state. The protests were the latest in a series of striking public gestures by Muslims, including refusing to allow the bodies of the nine militants killed in the attacks to be buried in Islamic cemeteries. It is part of an effort to dissociate their own grievances as a minority here from sympathy for terrorism in the wake of the deadly assault. PAGE A6 
 Efforts at Openness Are in Peril
 Last year, India and Pakistan entered into a promising attempt at a detente when they announced an agreement to open up trade between the two countries. But the recent terrorist attacks in Mumbai, which India blames on a Pakistani extremist group, have put the plans of increased openness on hold indefinitely, and possibly derailed them entirely. PAGE A14 
 PROSECUTOR TO MEET WITH IRAQIS
 An American prosecutor working on the case against five Blackwater security guards -- they are charged in connection with a 2007 shooting that left at least 17 Iraqis dead -- will meet with victims' families at Iraq's National Police Headquarters in Baghdad. The prosecutor will make a presentation to the families and brief them about how the investigation has been conducted to date, what will happen during the trial and explain how they can make claims against Blackwater Worldwide. PAGE A12 U.N. AIDE DEFENDS KARZAI
 Kai Eide, the United Nations special representative for Afghanistan, came to the defense of Hamid Karzai, the country's embattled president, saying that his international partners risk jeopardizing their efforts to stabilize and rebuild the country unless they conduct their military operations with more care and cultural sensitivity. He also defended Mr. Karzai's recent critical remarks about his foreign allies, which diplomats from other countries called a cynical effort to curry favor with Afghan voters in the run-up to national elections. PAGE A12
 AN EXPLORER'S EMBATTLED LEGACY
 Hiram Bingham's name and likeness adorn a luxury train and much of the tourist merchandise near Machu Picchu, the Incan city the explorer is credited with revealing to the outside world almost a century ago. But several events could sow doubt about Mr. Bingham's reputation: Peru has threatened legal action against Yale to recover thousands of artifacts he is accused of removing from the site, new evidence suggests that a German adventurer may have arrived there first and a legal dispute has been grinding on over who owned the site when Mr. Bingham supposedly discovered it. PAGE A8
 NATIONAL
 IN CHICAGO, LAID-OFF WORKERS
 Refuse to Go Away Quietly
 For years they worked at the Republic Windows and Door factory on Chicago's North Side, assembling vinyl windows and sliding doors. And when notified on Friday that they were being laid off, the employees voted to stage a sit-in. There are issues like notice and vacation and severance pay, they say. ''We're here, and we're not going anywhere until we get what's fair and what's ours,'' one said. PAGE A16
 BATTLING OVER VIEWS AND VISION
 On one side were the off-island owners of Molokai Ranch, whose ideas for development included the building of 200 luxury homes on a gorgeous oceanfront spot called La'au Point on Molokai Island. On the other was the majority of the Molokai community, who consider the property sacred. ''We're just caretakers,'' as one put it. And so began the battle. Our Land, by Dan Barry. PAGE A16
 DRONE TO PATROL CANADIAN BORDER
 Unmanned aircraft have patrolled the nation's border with Mexico since 2005, where they have helped lead to the discovery of more than 18,000 pounds of marijuana and 4,000 illegal immigrants. Now the patrols will move north, with runs along the northern edge of North Dakota using sensors that can provide video and detect heat and changes to landscape. PAGE A22
 A CONGRESSIONAL UPSET
 Few in New Orleans were betting on Anh Cao, a recent convert to the Republican Party, to beat William J. Jefferson, the once-untouchable incumbent Democratic congressman there. The day after he did just that, Mr. Cao was being approached by voters on the street with bewildered awe. PAGE A18
 MEETING ON PRISON OVERCROWDING
 A three-judge panel is meeting in San Francisco to decide whether prison overcrowding results in unconstitutional treatment of California's more than 150,000 inmates. If that is the finding, the judges could order the state to release tens of thousands of prisoners. The state says that would result in increased crime, but lawyers for the inmates said much of the reduction could come from not sending people who have committed minor parole violations back to prison. PAGE A20
 OBITUARIES
 NINA FOCH, 84
 The Dutch-born actress epitomized the cool, aloof blond sophisticate in films and on television for six decades while thriving as an acting teacher. Ms. Foch is probably best remembered by moviegoers as the socialite who tries to buy Gene Kelly's character, as well as his artwork, in the 1951 musical, ''An American in Paris.'' PAGE D9
 BUSINESS
 SEEKING A BALANCE
 For Cost-Conscious Luxury
 Like some other luxury brands facing plunging profits and tarnished stock, the watchmaker Bulgari is looking to become cost-conscious. But the challenge for Francesco Trapani, the chief executive, is delicate: cut too deeply, and he risks harming the brand's image of opulence and exclusivity, carefully honed over decades and reinforced by stars like Nicole Kidman, Charlize Theron and Scarlett Johansson. PAGE B1
 RIVAL PLAN FOR SUGAR LAND
 The board of the United States Sugar Corporation is scheduled to meet on Monday and review a proposal by the state of Florida to buy the company's land and use it to restore the Everglades. And legal questions may prevent shareholders from considering a rival plan that could prove superior for them, taxpayers and maybe for the Everglades itself. PAGE B1
 REAL MONEY IN A VIRTUAL WORLD
 Finally, a place where the deepening recession has not slowed the sale of goods: Gaia Online, a youth world with seven million monthly visitors, sells more than $1 million a month of virtual goods and expects a record month in December. This week it is adding Elvis items for the well-dressed avatar. Blue suede shoes, 50 cents. PAGE B6
 FIGHTING FOR SURVIVAL
 How the mighty have fallen: people with pre-cable, three-network memories may well recall when picking up a copy of TV Guide was an indispensable part of the weekly grocery store experience. In 2000, the publication was part of a $9.2 billion merger. Last week, the magazine sold for a dollar -- less than the price of a single copy. PAGE B8
 TAKING AIM AT A TV FRONT-RUNNER
 What had been leaked is now official: David Gregory, above, will be the next permanent moderator of the NBC program ''Meet the Press.'' Under Tim Russert, who died in June, and his temporary successor, Tom Brokaw, the program had dominated the Sunday morning talk shows. But competitors see a chance to change that. ''I think the post-Russert era begins now,'' said Chris Wallace, the host of ''Fox News Sunday.'' PAGE B8
 MADISON AVENUE SCALES BACK
 With the auto industry selling fewer cars and holding its hand out to Congress, advertising agencies are busily downsizing their estimates of auto ad spending for 2009. And those cheery agency holiday parties are taking on a decidedly more austere look. PAGE B9
 Stoking Fear Everywhere B1
 Big 3 Bankruptcy Optimism B3
 Freedoms Behind a Touch Screen B6 
 NEW YORK
 FINDING POWER BROKERS 
 Not as Easy as in Times Past
 ''Who are the power brokers?'' Mayor John V. Lindsay asked in 1966 when he defiantly challenged their hegemony. ''They know who they are.'' But these days figuring out who the power brokers are is not so easy. This is not good for Richard Ravitch, who is trying to win support for a financial rescue plan for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and could use some power brokered on his behalf. PAGE A26 
 ANALYZING CASE AGAINST OFFICERS
 As three New York City officers prepare to face charges almost two months after a Brooklyn man accused them of beating and sodomizing him with an object, legal experts say the case against the officers hinges on two crucial elements: the extent and nature of the man's injuries, and the intent of the officers who may have caused them. An indictment against the officers is expected to be unsealed on Tuesday, people briefed on the case said. PAGE A27 
 SPORTS
 PANTHERS RIDE ARM AND HAND
 Back Into N.F.L. Forefront
 The quarterback had the type of ligament replacement surgery generally reserved for pitchers, and the star receiver punched a teammate and received a two-game suspension. But at 9-3, the Carolina Panthers are tied for first place in the National Football Conference South and for the second-best record in the conference with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, the team they face Monday night. Because of the Panthers' balance, they are thought of as one of the more serious threats to the Giants when the playoffs start. PAGE D1
 A FRESH START FOR WIE
 With a par on the 90th hole, Michelle Wie finished tied for seventh in the L.P.G.A. Tour qualifying tournament in Daytona Beach, Fla., and earned playing privileges for 2009 with seven strokes to spare. For those who remembered the giggly, gangly Wie, who contended in women's majors while barely in her teens, the result might have carried all the impact of an unimaginative sermon delivered in a monotone. But now, at 19, she sees it as a singular moment. ''It feels like a clean slate, a new beginning, and I finally feel like I really earned it.'' PAGE D8 
 TAR HEELS BACK ON TOP
 North Carolina, which won 16 of the first 19 N.C.A.A. titles and has won 19 over all, restored the natural order to women's soccer, beating top-seeded and undefeated Notre Dame, 2-1, in the College Cup final in Cary, N.C. Casey Nogueira, a junior forward, scored both goals. She scored the winner with 2 minutes 6 seconds remaining in regulation as North Carolina (25-1-2) rallied after falling behind. PAGE D3 
 Arts
 A PLAN TO RESCUE A MUSEUM IN LOS ANGELES
 The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles needs to raise roughly $25 million to avoid being swallowed by another museum. But art lovers in Southern California need not drive into the Pacific. Rather than go begging from the usual philanthropists, the museum can rescue itself by following the route mapped out by Barack Obama's presidential campaign: seek small donations and rally grassroots organization to raise the cash. And get some rich people to donate too. PAGE C1 
 BRITONS RALLY TO SAVE PRIZED TITIANS
 Britain goes through these sorts of convulsions every few years: an aristocrat decides to sell a piece of art that was on loan to a museum, and the art establishment and news media mount a spirited campaign for the works to be ''saved for the nation.'' Two treasured Titians that were on loan to the National Galleries of Scotland will be auctioned if the gallery and another museum can't raise half the needed $148 million to buy them by Dec. 31. PAGE C1 
 TALES OF HIGH SOCIETY IN THE GUTTER
 The story was told in large block letters on the front pages of New York's newspapers. In July 2006, a grandson of the society doyenne Brooke Astor tried to usurp guardianship of her from his father, Mrs. Astor's only child. A little over a year later, the father faced an 18-count indictment regarding alleged mismanagement of Mrs. Astor's assets. Now, the print and pages are smaller in Meryl Gordon's ''Mrs. Astor Regrets,'' her tale of a grande dame at the center of battling bluebloods. PAGE C1 
 COMPOSER HEARS HIMSELF EVOLVE
 ''Diademes,'' an audaciously contemporary work for a viola soloist, chamber ensemble and electronic resources, was introduced in 1986, bringing widespread attention to its 24-year-old composer, Marc-Andre Dalbavie. Mr. Dalbavie, now 47 and a leading French composer, had not heard ''Diademes'' for many years before it was played on Friday at Columbia University's Miller Theater. And, as he told the audience, he was a little disconcerted by what he heard. PAGE C3 
 BUBLe SWINGS, STOMPS AND CROONS
 Michael Buble has a thick, burly baritone with a smooth surface and a texture very similar to that of Harry Connick Jr., Stephen Holden writes, but more polished. At Madison Square Garden on Friday night, Mr. Buble concentrated predominantly on mid- to up-tempo songs that made maximum use of the excellent eight-man horn and reed section. PAGE C5 
 Editorial
 TORTURED JUSTICE
 The nation's courts continue to grapple with the abuses committed by President Bush's administration in the name of fighting terrorism. The extent of the damage to American liberties, and how lasting it will be, will be told in part by the outcome of two cases that are to be heard by the federal courts. PAGE A28
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 President-elect Barack Obama and a Democratic Congress are about to serve up a super-sized helping of big-government liberalism. Conservatives will be inclined to oppose much of what Mr. Obama and his party cook up, and rightly so. But they should think twice before charging into battle under the banner of ''small-government conservatism.'' PAGE A29
 THEY HATE US -- AND INDIA IS US
 In Op-Ed articles, two Westerners with long experience in Central Asia, the biographer Patrick French and the journalist Robert D. Kaplan argue that the attacks in Mumbai were committed not because of the Kashmir dispute or the poor treatment of Muslims, but because India is everything the terrorists hate: democratic, multi-religious, economically vibrant and pro-American. PAGE A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); RELIGION (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (61%); CEMETERIES (56%); TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (84%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) INDIA (95%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PERU (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



278 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Anheuser-Busch InBev expanded its relationship with Mother, London, by naming the agency to handle the worldwide creative assignment for the Stella Artois beer brand. The account, with spending estimated at $30 million, had been handled by Lowe Worldwide, London, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Lowe resigned the assignment last August after Mother was chosen to create ads for a new, lower-alcohol variety of Stella Artois. 
 People
 Todd Tilford joined Grey New York as one of two executive creative directors, a new post. He joins Noel Cottrell, the other executive creative director, and reports to Tor Myhren, executive vice president and chief creative officer. Mr. Tilford had most recently been a consultant to agencies like Core and Crispin Porter & Bogusky. Grey New York is the flagship office of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, part of WPP. 
 Peter Regan joined RJ Palmer, New York, as senior vice president and director for client services, leading a new department. He had most recently been chief operating officer at Cliff Freeman & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners.
 Jill Beraud joined PepsiCo, Purchase, N.Y., as chief marketing officer, a new post. She had been chief marketing officer at Victoria's Secret, part of Limited Brands.
 Miscellany
 Cheil Worldwide, Seoul, South Korea, bought 49 percent of Beattie McGuinness Bungay, London. Financial terms were not disclosed.
 The Advertising Club, New York, is starting a charitable program, Agencies in Action, that sends teams of employees at local agencies to volunteer at soup kitchens. Organizations taking part include the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, the New York City Rescue Mission and the Partnership for the Homeless. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (79%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); CHARITIES (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (70%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (55%); CHEIL WORLDWIDE INC (55%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%); PEPSICO INC (55%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (93%); ABI (BRU) (93%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%); 030000 (KSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (93%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



279 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Shopping District Tries Soft Selling for Holidays

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Until recently, the prime directive of American consumerism seemed to be ''When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping.'' Now that things are truly tough, the only places shoppers seem to be going are to Wal-Mart or their own closets, digging out things they have never worn or used.
 So where does that leave a local shopping district in the weeks before Christmas? Willing to try an unusual campaign that plays up seasonal rather than commercial considerations.
 The campaign is for Cherry Creek North, a business improvement district southeast of downtown Denver that is composed of 16 blocks of 320 stores, shops, galleries and restaurants. The campaign, by a Denver agency called Cultivator Advertising and Design, carries the title ''The Yuletide Project.'' 
 The ads do not suggest gifts to buy but rather offer fun -- and free -- holiday-inspired activities to pursue, which are numbered as if on a to-do list. Some ideas are sensible, some silly, others offbeat.
 Among them are these: ''Change your ring tone to your favorite holiday tune,'' ''Play holiday music in your car with the windows down,'' ''Invite a crowd of people to catch snowflakes on their tongues,'' ''Carol with a stranger,'' ''Make a snow angel in a parking lot (Don't get run over!),'' ''Act out a scene from your favorite holiday movie,'' ''Stick a holiday bow on someone's back'' and ''Write a holiday greeting on a snow-covered car window.''
 The theme of the campaign, with a budget estimated in the low hundred thousands of dollars, is ''Find the reason for the season at Cherry Creek North.''
 The campaign is the first work for the shopping district by Cultivator. It includes radio commercials, print advertisements, signs on the backs of buses, banners hanging from street signs, posters in merchants' windows, postcards mailed to local residents, lapel buttons and even yard signs on neighborhood lawns.
 The campaign, which also appears on the shopping district's Web site , is reinforced with more than 20 events in and around the stores that invoke holiday traditions: visits by carolers, candlelit evening hours, giveaways of eggnog and cookies and even hayrides.
 ''We've never been a district for the 'Come on down' hard sell,'' says Christina Brickley, marketing and communications director at Cherry Creek North, and plans were under way for a reprise of previous ads with an upscale look: ''lots of white space and a simple tag line about the holidays.''
 But last month, after the financial crisis began, ''we decided to take a different path,'' she adds, because ''we didn't think the luxury, glossy, pretty image would be compelling and thought it might be a little gluttonish.''
 ''We sat down with Cultivator and talked about what is the essence of the holidays,'' Ms. Brickley says, ''what do people really want to do.''
 Those discussions reminded her of her childhood visits to see the holiday windows at Marshall Field's in Chicago, which led to these thoughts: ''Just because it's a down economy doesn't mean we have to be down. My kids still want to celebrate the holiday season.''
 That inspired the concept of ''The Yuletide Project,'' which Ms. Brickley says ''positions ourselves as the center of holiday cheer, not holiday fear.''
 That approach is demonstrated by the text of the print ads. ''There's yuletide joy aplenty all over Cherry Creek North,'' one ad begins, then continues: ''Caroling. Decorated windows. Every trip here unveils more Yuletide Project excitement.''
 The goal is ''to break out of the clutter of typical holiday advertising and marketing,'' says Scott Coe, a partner at Cultivator.
 ''When the economy started to falter, that's when we decided to make the campaign more about the experience of the season,'' he adds, ''instead of bragging about all the different shops and shopping.''
 The campaign ''gives permission to people to come down and experience the holidays'' at Cherry Creek North, Mr. Coe says, without feeling they must ''buy something.'' ''We wanted to brand the district: 'If there's a place to go get into the spirit of the season, this is it,''' he adds, while avoiding pointed appeals like ''Come here to shop because we have discounts on everything.''
 ''I think people do want to embrace the season,'' Mr. Coe says, despite the dire economic news.
 ''Whether you spend money on presents or not, there are things that make it a special season,'' he adds, ''this year, probably even more so.''
 Christmas is ''a season of hope,'' Mr. Coe says, ''and it always has been.''
 And although ''shopping plays a role in the holiday,'' he adds, ''there's a big part of the season that's not about buying things.''
 Holiday cuteness is an affliction that strikes many marketers this time of the year. Mr. Coe says the intent was to make the campaign light-hearted without being too coy or gooey.
 ''Whimsy is a good word'' for the tone, he says. ''There are little elements that say: 'Let's have fun. Let's celebrate the holidays and be excited for the season.' ''
 An example of that is an event that took place on Nov. 24, intended to kick off the shopping season at Cherry Creek North. Ms. Brickley calls it ''White Monday,'' an alternative to the so-called Black Friday shopping sprees on the day after Thanksgiving.
 ''The merchants cover their windows with white paper,'' Ms. Brickley says, ''and at 4 o'clock everyone takes the white paper off.'' 
 ''We were pretty happy with the day after Thanksgiving.''
 ''Flat is the new up, and we seem to be pretty flat right now,'' she adds, as slackening demand for merchandise like clothing is offset by demand for merchandise like pillows, chairs and other home furnishings.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); MUSIC GENRES (66%); MUSIC (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



280 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: In String of Bad News, Omens of a Long Recession

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Despite months of rescue efforts, hundreds of billions of dollars in government spending and an avant-garde apparatus of financial tools, the American economy has only worsened, and at a faster rate than nearly anyone predicted.
 This recession, which officially began in December 2007, now appears virtually certain to be the longest downturn -- and possibly most severe -- since the end of World War II, as evidenced last week by a demoralizing rat-a-tat of grim reports on jobs, sales and public confidence.
 The reports signaled that even after 11 months, more than the entire length of the last two downturns, this recession has only now entered its fiercest phase, and economists say the pain will not end soon. 
 ''For the average American it's going to be devastating for the next 6 to 12 months,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group, a research and forecasting firm. He added, ''I have not seen anything particularly hopeful right now, which tells me we have a ways to go.'' 
 In an appearance Sunday on ''Meet the Press,'' President-elect Barack Obama promised a stimulus plan ''large enough to get the economy moving,'' but conceded that ''things are going to get worse before they get better.''
 Some analysts had hoped the worst was over after October's market shocks, which spooked consumers and choked off credit.
 Instead, Americans retrenched even further in November, sending sales at the nation's retailers tumbling to the weakest level in more than 35 years and leading the Detroit automakers to record their worst sales in a quarter-century. Manufacturers have not seen conditions this bad since 1982.
 The decline in spending is likely to continue, depriving the economy of its primary growth engine, as layoffs continue to mount. Half a million Americans, from financial analysts to factory workers, were dismissed in November alone. Rarely has a labor downturn affected such a broad swath of income levels. 
 Most frightening of all is that the worst job losses may be yet to come. If history is any guide, millions more Americans could lose their jobs before businesses start to expand again.
 The worst jolts to the labor market tend to be only the precursor of six months or more of additional layoffs. Employment suffered a major contraction in December 1981 and January 1982, and workers did not see a stable market for about 10 months, including another big round of layoffs in July 1982.
 A similar pattern occurred in the other great postwar recession, in 1974, when several months of a stagnant labor market were followed by a violent contraction over the new year. After the worst month, December 1974, the job market took about six more months to stabilize. 
 So in the best case -- where November's 533,000 lost jobs signals the bottom of the labor market contraction -- workers could face six more months or so of hard times. 
 ''We'll be lucky if the unemployment rate is below double digits by the end of next year,'' said Jared Bernstein, who will be the chief economic adviser to Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''Even if the economy improves, the growth won't be enough to rehire laid-off workers, much less absorb those coming into the labor force.'' 
 There is no guarantee, of course, that November's numbers will be the worst of the current round of layoffs. Even before Lehman Brothers collapsed, employers were on the defensive, cutting more than 400,000 jobs after Labor Day. 
 Now that the full magnitude of the financial crisis is apparent, companies are tightening their belts further. Just last week, AT&T, Credit Suisse, DuPont and Viacom announced deep cuts. Layoffs are expected in the financial and automotive industries after the new year. 
 ''This current environment requires action, and that's what we're doing,'' said Mohammed Nakhooda, a spokesman for Nortel Networks, the maker of telecommunications equipment, which has lost business this fall from large corporate clients cutting costs. 
 Nortel, based in Toronto, said it would cut about 1,300 jobs, or 5 percent of its work force, including some at its United States operations. It will also begin a hiring freeze and cut back on employee travel.
 ''It's tough but it's necessary,'' Mr. Nakhooda said. ''The business environment has obviously changed pretty drastically over a short period of time.''
 Some economists predict that the economy could lose as many jobs in the first six months of 2009 as the entirety of 2008. Nearly two million jobs have been lost since the start of the recession last year, two-thirds of them since September. Still, some forecasters say the pessimistic talk may be overblown, and possibly a problem in itself.
 ''The numbers are giving us a darker view than is actually the case,'' said Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisors, a research firm, adding that some of the economic indicators that have been flashing red are based on subjective surveys of businesses and households.
 ''There is such a thing as self-fulfilling prophecy,'' he said.
 Americans who are lucky enough to still collect a paycheck are likely to save more, cut back on luxury items and restaurants, and channel more of their income into savings accounts for college and retirement. 
 ''Even Americans who still have a job are looking around and saying, 'Well, you know, how much longer?' '' said Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at MFR, a research firm.
 All of this is likely to make many people hesitant to invest any money they do have. Many Americans chose to save over the last two decades by investing in stocks and real estate. Now, the jar-in-the-kitchen approach may return, analysts said. 
 ''It is quite conceivable -- many would say probable -- that the severe asset price collapses that have occurred in both equity and real estate will prompt a lasting increase in the desired saving rate, at least on the part of many consumers,'' Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note last week.
 Those who benefit from the downturn could be those still willing to take a trip to the mall, where they will find deep discounts on a range of products. First-time home buyers may also find deals, as long as they can obtain a mortgage -- no easy task in a time of tight credit.
 Many economists pointed to government stimulus as the way out of the economic mess, and they applauded the federal government's announcement that it might try to drive down interest rates on mortgages to 4.5 percent, about one percentage point lower than current rates.
 A major stimulus package is also expected to be announced in January or February, soon after Mr. Obama takes office. Economists hope the package will create jobs and stimulate spending, and many predict that economic growth will improve slightly after this quarter with the federal help.
 In an address taped for broadcast Saturday morning on radio and YouTube, Mr. Obama committed to the largest public works program since the creation of the interstate highway system a half century ago. ''We need action -- and action now,'' he said.
 Still, analysts said that government assistance would probably not result in a full recovery by May, which would signify the 16-month point of the recession. That would match the record for the longest postwar recession, set in 1975 and reached again in 1982.
 ''Up until mid-September, a plausible scenario was that it would be a short and shallow recession,'' said Edward Yardeni, the investment strategist. ''After mid-September, it became quite obvious that that was wishful thinking.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Change in employment: Employment either fell or was flat for the most recent 13 months. Periods like this are almost always coupled with periods of economic recession. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); DISMISSALS (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); RETAILERS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008



281 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Put Off by Term-Limits Fight, Green Ponders Another Run for Public Advocate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Mark Green, the president of Air America Radio and a onetime Democratic mayoral nominee, said he was considering a race next year for public advocate of New York City -- a job he held for eight years.
 In an interview on Saturday, Mr. Green, who was public advocate from 1994 to 2001 and who ran unsuccessfully for state attorney general in 2006, said he had been repeatedly approached in the past few months by supporters asking him to run.
''I am seriously thinking again of running for public advocate,'' Mr. Green said, adding that he had been urged by friends and some Democratic leaders to run for the office, the city's second-highest elective position. He said that since leaving office, ''I realized how much I missed public service.'' 
 Mr. Green, 63, said he would decide within two months. In the meantime, even the possibility that Mr. Green might run for his old job will reconfigure the city's political landscape, not to mention jolt the crowded race for public advocate. Since the incumbent, Betsy Gotbaum, announced in October that she would not run for re-election, the contest has become widely viewed as the most competitive of the 2009 elections.
 The re-emergence of Mr. Green as a possible candidate is highly unexpected, particularly after he lost the Democratic nomination for attorney general to Andrew M. Cuomo two years ago. At that time, he told reporters that he would ''never run again.''
 When asked on Saturday what caused him to change his mind, Mr. Green said, ''Events have altered the landscape, like the term-limits battle, like the economy.'' He added that ''the stakes seem higher and perhaps, as a result, supporters are now more numerous and encouraging.''
 On term limits, Mr. Green was referring to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to extend the period that the city's elected officials can stay in office and the public debate about it that went on for weeks. The City Council voted in October in favor of allowing incumbents to run for a third term.
 Mr. Green was one of the most vocal public figures to oppose the mayor's proposal. Democratic officials close to Mr. Green said that it was during the term-limits debate that friends began urging him to seek his old job. Mr. Green, they said, believed that the debate revealed a need for more outspoken leadership among progressive Democrats to combat a strong mayor with vast financial resources.
 Mr. Green was the city's first public advocate, a job that used to be known as City Council president. The post was renamed and assigned new duties in a revision of the City Charter in 1989. The public advocate is next in line to succeed the mayor. 
 In his years as public advocate, Mr. Green was the highest-ranking elected Democratic official in the city, and he battled frequently and publicly with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican. Mr. Green took the Giuliani administration to court several times, as when he sued to release the files of hundreds of police officers who were suspected of misconduct or brutality.
 For the past year, Mr. Green has been editing a book and running Air America Radio, the liberal network that was acquired a year ago by Stephen L. Green, who is the chairman of a real estate investment trust and the brother of Mr. Green.
 Mark Green has been beset by an image as a perennial candidate who has run in far more elections than he has won. Since 1980, Mr. Green has lost bids for the United States Senate and House. In 2001, he was the Democratic nominee for mayor, narrowly losing to the Republican candidate, Mr. Bloomberg. 
 Some of those races have been characterized by bitterness. That was especially true of his testy relations with Fernando Ferrer, his chief Democratic rival in the 2001 mayoral race. Those bad feelings continued into the general election, and are thought to have been a factor in Mr. Green's defeat. Nonetheless, Mr. Green would be a formidable candidate for the Democratic nomination for public advocate. A college activist in the 1960s, he became an aide to Ralph Nader before joining the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins as commissioner of consumer affairs, after which he was elected public advocate.
 There are already a number of Democratic candidates in the race for public advocate. They include City Council members Eric N. Gioia and John C. Liu of Queens and Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn, Assemblyman Adam Clayton Powell IV of Manhattan and the civil rights lawyer Norman Siegel.
 The public advocate serves as an ombudsman for complaints from the public about city government. The position comes with a salary of $150,000 and a staff of 47. In the position, Ms. Gotbaum brought attention to education, child welfare and women's issues, among others.
 Mr. Green said he would meet with other supporters and make a decision after he completed a promotional tour for the book ''Change for America: A Progressive Blueprint for the 44th President'' (Basic Books), which he co-edited. It is the 22nd book that Mr. Green has written or edited. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After vowing in 2006 that he would ''never run again,'' Mark Green now says, ''I realized how much I missed public service.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008



282 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words

 BODY:
THE CRASH OF TRASH The economic downturn has decimated the market for recycled materials like cardboard, plastic, newspaper and metals. Recycling contractors are unable to find buyers at prices they want to charge. 
NEW BID FOR U.S. SUGAR As U.S. Sugar considered a bid by the state of Florida to buy it in an Everglades restoration project, a family-owned agricultural concern made a rival offer. [B1.]
ECONOMY IN FAST SLIDE Despite months of rescue efforts and hundreds of billions in government spending, the American economy has worsened at a faster rate than most predicted. [B1.]
BIG THREE BANKRUPTCY DEBATE Some analysts argue that a bailout for automakers would be throwing good money after bad, and reorganization in bankruptcy is the answer. Others say the unintended consequences of bankruptcy would be disastrous. [B4.]
AD BUSINESS WORRIES Automakers and dealerships spend nearly $20 billion on ads each year, and the troubles of Detroit's Big Three have Madison Avenue in a state of high anxiety. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B9.]
STOKING FEAR EVERYWHERE Wherever you turn these days, the flood of bad news serves to persuade that you'll soon be unemployed. One columnist has his sandwich board ready. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
CNN SPEAKS, EDITORS TWITTER When CNN invited several dozen newspaper editors to preview its plans to start a news wire service, it might not have expected to read all about it on the social messaging Web site Twitter, but that is what happened. [B8.]
NEW FACE AT 'MEET THE PRESS' As David Gregory assumes the leadership of ''Meet the Press,'' NBC's competitors have the chance to alter the dynamics of Sunday morning talk. [B8.]
TV GUIDE IS SOLD FOR $1 In 2000, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation sold TV Guide, once the master of the airwaves, for $9.2 billion. Last week, it was sold to a private equity firm for $1, and its survival is in doubt. [B8.]
GPS BAN The Egyptian government has demanded that Apple disable the phone's global-positioning system, arguing that GPS is a military prerogative. Link by Link. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); NEWS SYNDICATION (73%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); LAND RECLAMATION (56%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



283 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Storefronts in Virtual Worlds Bringing In Real Money

BYLINE: By STEFANIE OLSEN

 BODY:
Want to walk a mile in Elvis Presley's blue suede shoes? It'll cost you 50 cents.
 In a down economy, that might be an affordable luxury to a teenager or twentysomething hanging out in a virtual world like Gaia Online, which this week will start selling a range of digital accessories depicting the rock legend's style, including blue suede shoes, a white-rhinestone jumpsuit ($4) and a pompadour ($1.50). 
 Younger people unfamiliar with Elvis might prefer to shell out $2 for Justin Timberlake's signature fedora or $3 for a pair of Snoop Dogg Dobermans to raise the cool quotient of their characters, known as avatars. 
 That is the premise behind Virtual Greats, a start-up in Huntington Beach, Calif., that represents celebrities and brands in the burgeoning American virtual goods business. The one-year-old company acts as a broker between Hollywood and the technologists who run youth-oriented virtual worlds like Gaia, Whyville and WeeWorld. 
 So far, the deepening recession has not slowed sales of virtual goods, which executives attribute to people spending more time at home. Gaia Online, a youth world with seven million monthly visitors, sells more than $1 million a month of virtual goods and expects a record month in December, said its chief executive, Craig Sherman. One rival, IMVU, has also had a 15 to 20 percent increase in sales since September.
 Facebook, the leading social network, allows members to spend real money to send virtual gifts, and it has worked with corporations like Ben & Jerry's Homemade, which gave away 500,000 virtual ice cream cones in April as part of a Free Cone Day promotion in stores.
 Consumers are tightening their belts, but they still want to socialize with peers and express themselves, industry executives say. Virtual goods like Paris Hilton's pet Chihuahua or Mr. Timberlake's puffy jacket can offer a cheap way to stand out.
 ''People are thinking that they're sacrificing in other areas so I'll indulge here with a dollar,'' said Charlene Li, a social media analyst formerly with Forrester Research. ''Is it worth it? It depends on them.''
 By most estimates, customers spend about $1.5 billion a year on virtual goods worldwide. Tencent Holdings, a publicly traded Internet media company based in China, is the leader, with hundreds of millions in annual revenue from virtual goods in online games and other applications. Internet companies in the United States are behind the curve.
 For celebrities, licensing virtual products is a new way to make a buck and stay hip with a young crowd. Snoop Dogg's manager, Constance Schwartz, said she did not have a clue about virtual worlds when Virtual Greats approached her this year, so she and her team spent a week exploring Gaia Online. 
 After seeing that many teenagers were spending their time and allowances there, Ms. Schwartz explained the concept to Snoop Dogg. She said it was an easy sell, given that Snoop Dogg had been one of the first rap musicians to license works for ring tones and voice tones. His only requirement was that all of the goods be ''true to himself,'' down to the hair braids, house slippers and plates of Roscoe's chicken and waffles he regularly eats in Los Angeles.
 At Elvis Presley Enterprises, virtual worlds are just another drop in the bucket -- 250 licensees worldwide sell 5,000 Elvis products and promotions, including talking dolls, Pez dispensers and a Facebook page. ''Elvis is everywhere,'' said Kevin Kern, a spokesman for the company, which controls the name, image and likeness of the rock star. ''Why not the virtual worlds?''
 Virtual Greats appeals to partners like Snoop Dogg and Elvis Presley Enterprises because it does the legwork that neither party -- rights holder or virtual-world operator -- has the desire or time to do. On one end, it courts celebrities and brands, negotiates licenses and aggregates talent; on the other end, it coalesces an otherwise fragmented market of virtual worlds starved for added sources of revenue. 
 Dan Jansen, former head of the Boston Consulting Group's global media and entertainment practice, started Virtual Greats in partnership with Millions of Us, a marketing agency in Sausalito, Calif., that builds virtual worlds. The two companies shared the idea that virtual worlds lacked diverse revenue sources and had no presence when it came to celebrity or branded goods. The Omnicom Group, a marketing and advertising firm, and Allen & Company, an investment bank, invested an undisclosed sum in Virtual Greats.
 Virtual goods have profit margins of 70 percent to 90 percent because they do not cost much to store, reproduce or distribute. Still, making a profit requires high volume. Next year, Virtual Greats hopes to represent 30 worlds and more than 50 artists. 
 It is talking with movie studios about licensing rights to characters like Ferris Bueller and with sports leagues for the rights to jerseys. It is also courting luxury brands like Gucci, Prada and Chanel for the rights to represent their goods online. 
 One challenge for Virtual Greats and its partners is to create legitimacy for the online brands while ensuring that there is not too much supply. 
 Mr. Sherman says Gaia uses ''forced forms of rarity,'' or limited editions of items. Over time, those items can command a premium in the secondary market, where members trade their goods for virtual currency. For example, a Gaia golden halo now out of production sold for $6,000 on eBay, he said.
 Similarly, Virtual Greats has learned that it underpriced some items, like the Hulk Impact Crater, which originally sold for 50 cents, then went up sixfold in the Gaia aftermarket. In its several months of testing, Virtual Greats has found that people prefer more expensive items with a brand name over cheaper, generic items. And larger items that are easier to see are more popular than small ones.
 Licensed virtual goods probably will not be more than a tiny niche business. Generic items are a huge portion of the virtual-goods market, and company-sponsored promotions like the Ben & Jerry's cones on Facebook will probably grow in importance as marketers try to extend their brands onto social networks.
 The economic downturn could make many people reconsider the notion of spending real money to outfit fictional personas with an Elvis pompadour or a Snoop Dogg hoodie. 
 Still, Mr. Jansen argues that people always crave a bit of brand-name glamour. ''Maybe you can't afford that Louis Vuitton bag, but you could in virtual form,'' he said. ''They're an affordable luxury in this difficult economy.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 8 about strong sales of products in online virtual worlds, using information from Virtual Greats, a seller of such products, referred incorrectly to the investment bank Allen & Company. The bank has an investment in Millions of Us, which is affiliated with Virtual Greats; it does not have a direct investment in Virtual Greats.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Virtual Greats sells celebrity accessories like Elvis Presley's jumpsuit or Snoop Dogg's Dobermans for online avatars.(PHOTOGRAPH BY IMAGES FROM GAIA ONLINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIRTUAL REALITY (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); ICE CREAM (73%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%)

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (66%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); TENCENT HOLDINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); FIYTA (SZSE) (51%); 0700 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (55%); PARIS HILTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



284 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Even Worse for Teens

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama and his fellow Democrats are wisely considering the kinds of public works projects that resuscitated the economy during the Depression by putting millions of unemployed Americans back to work. 
 Any plan must include a carefully thought out provision for youthful workers, who were being driven from the labor market in record numbers long before the financial meltdown and who now risk being permanently marginalized both socially and economically.
 The part-time jobs that American teenagers once took for granted -- but that millions can no longer find -- provided a lot more than pocket money. Young people also learned basic workplace skills and developed work histories that made them attractive to future employers. 
 Young people who fail to find early jobs are more likely to remain underemployed or unemployed into their 20s and beyond. The risks are compounded for low-income youth, who are more likely to leave school and have other problems when they do not find work.
 According to a recent analysis by Andrew Sum, an economist at Northeastern University, the percentage of teens employed has fallen from nearly 45 percent in 2000 to about 30 percent today. That is almost 10 times the decrease for adult workers, who are increasingly taking jobs that once went to teenagers.
 The situation is far worse in low-income minority areas, where the youth employment rate appears to be hovering not much above 10 percent. That will only get worse as the economy contracts. And even when the recession ends, it could take an additional two or three years before youth employment begins to recover. 
 The states cannot address this problem without federal help. Congress needs to reinstate the federal summer jobs program that it abandoned in 2000, when it was thought that a strong economy made it unnecessary. It should also recreate other programs that provided subsidized jobs for young people in both the public and private sector. The country cannot allow a generation of young people to fall out of the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TEENS MARKET (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



285 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Small Isn't Beautiful

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL. 
Paul Krugman is off today.

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama and a Democratic Congress are about to serve up a supersized helping of big-government liberalism. Conservatives will be inclined to oppose much of what Obama and his party cook up. And, I believe, rightly so.
 But conservatives should think twice before charging into battle against Obama under the banner of ''small-government conservatism.'' It's a banner many Republicans and conservatives have rediscovered since the election and have been waving around energetically. Jeb Bush, now considering a Senate run in 2010, even went so far as to tell Politico last month, ''There should not be such a thing as a big-government Republican.'' 
 Really? Jeb Bush was a successful and popular conservative governor of Florida, with tax cuts, policy reforms and privatizations of government services to show for his time in office. Still, in his two terms state spending increased over 50 percent -- a rate faster than inflation plus population growth. It turns out, in the real world of Republican governance, that there aren't a whole lot of small-government Republicans.
 Five Republicans have won the presidency since 1932: Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and the two George Bushes. Only Reagan was even close to being a small-government conservative. And he campaigned in 1980 more as a tax-cutter and national-defense-builder-upper, and less as a small-government enthusiast in the mold of the man he had supported -- and who had lost -- in 1964, Barry Goldwater. And Reagan's record as governor and president wasn't a particularly government-slashing one.
 Even the G.O.P.'s 1994 Contract With America made only vague promises to eliminate the budget deficit, and proposed no specific cuts in government programs. It focused far more on crime, taxes, welfare reform and government reform. Indeed, the ''Republican Revolution'' of 1995 imploded primarily because of the Republican Congress's one major small-government-type initiative -- the attempt to ''cut'' (i.e., restrain the growth of) Medicare. George W. Bush seemed to learn the lesson. Prior to his re-election, he proposed and signed into law popular (and, it turned out, successful) legislation, opposed by small-government conservatives, adding a prescription drug benefit to Medicare. 
 So talk of small government may be music to conservative ears, but it's not to the public as a whole. This isn't to say the public is fond of big-government liberalism. It's just that what's politically vulnerable about big-government liberalism is more the liberalism than the big government. (Besides, the public knows that government's not going to shrink much no matter who's in power.) 
 Now it's true that the size of the government and the modern liberal agenda are connected. It's also true that modern conservatism has to include a strong commitment to limited (though energetic) government and to constitutional (though not necessarily small or weak) government. Still, there's a difference between a conservatism that is concerned with limited and constitutional government and one that focuses on simply opposing big government.
 So: If you're a small-government conservative, you'll tend to oppose the bailouts, period. If you more or less accept big government, you'll be open to the government's stepping in to save the financial system, or the auto industry. But you'll tend to favor those policies -- universal tax cuts, offering everyone a chance to refinance his mortgage, relieving auto makers of burdensome regulations -- that, consistent with conservative principles, don't reward irresponsible behavior and don't politicize markets.
 Similarly, if you're against big government, you'll oppose a huge public works stimulus package. If you think some government action is inevitable, you might instead point out that the most unambiguous public good is national defense. You might then suggest spending a good chunk of the stimulus on national security -- directing dollars to much-needed and underfunded defense procurement rather than to fanciful green technologies, making sure funds are available for the needed expansion of the Army and Marines before rushing to create make-work civilian jobs. Obama wants to spend much of the stimulus on transportation infrastructure and schools. Fine, but lots of schools and airports seem to me to have been refurbished more recently and more generously than military bases I've visited.
 I can't help but admire some of my fellow conservatives' loyalty to the small-government cause. It reminds me of the nobility of Tennyson's Light Brigade, as it charges into battle: ''Theirs but to do and die.'' Maybe it would be better, though, first to reason why. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



286 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Major Issue In Big 3 Aid Is Final Cost

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
So what will it cost to fix Detroit's Big Three automakers?
 Now that Congress has signaled its willingness to help the ailing car companies with short-term loans, that question has gained new urgency -- particularly for President-elect Barack Obama, who will inherit the crisis in Detroit when he takes office. 
 The ultimate price tag for a new and improved American auto industry may be as unfathomable as questions about the potential harm to the economy if any of the companies were allowed to collapse. 
 But estimates of the final bill are rising rapidly, particularly as the economy weakens and car sales keep falling. 
 A comprehensive bailout for General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and Chrysler could cost as much as $125 billion, and even the companies themselves are hard pressed to dispute that figure.
 Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody'sEconomy.com, testified before Congress last week that the Big Three's request for $34 billion in loans ''will not be sufficient for them to avoid bankruptcy at some point in the next two years.'' He said from $75 billion to $125 billion would be needed to pay for a full-scale reorganization of the automakers.
 Lawmakers have indicated they may give G.M. and Chrysler about $15 billion in emergency aid to keep them in business until the spring, when the Obama administration and the new Congress can craft a longer-term rescue plan.
 Throughout four hearings on Capitol Hill, the chief executives of G.M., Ford and Chrysler have tried to assure lawmakers that all they need is temporary assistance until the sick economy and the depressed auto market recover.
 G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, tried to assure Congress last week that G.M. can be profitable again with $18 billion in federal loans and an aggressive reorganization plan.
 ''Our plan is far reaching and extensive,'' Mr. Wagoner said. ''It is a different way of thinking and our team is committed to achieving it.''
 Still, there are many variables that could derail the Big Three's recovery plans.
 Despite an infusion of $700 billion into financial institutions, there are few signs that car loans are becoming more available to consumers -- a critical component in any rebound in vehicle sales, which have fallen to their lowest level in 25 years in the United States.
 Important foreign markets in Europe and Asia are also deteriorating, further reducing revenues at G.M. and Ford.
 And Detroit is also facing huge bills -- interest payments on their enormous debt loads, large contributions to health care trusts for retired hourly workers as well as tens of billions of dollars in expenses to meet stringent new government fuel-economy requirements.
 The magnitude of the companies' obligations left some lawmakers groping for answers during the testimony of the Big Three executives.
 ''Do we know what we're doing? Do we know what we're trying to achieve?'' asked Representative Peter King, Republican of New York. ''If I was reasonably convinced that the money was going to work, I would support it.''
 Detroit has lost tens of billions of dollars in recent years; credibility has evaporated among investors and analysts who have seen a series of reorganization efforts and new products fail to produce a lasting turnaround.
 The fact that the companies first asked for $25 billion in mid-November, then upped the ante to $34 billion two weeks later hardly gave lawmakers confidence in the automakers' current plans.
 ''I don't want to send you home again because it's going to get more expensive in another two weeks,'' Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of New York, said at last Friday's hearing.
 Because it is the biggest and most troubled of the automakers, G.M. generated the most skepticism with its plan. The company says that it needs $10 billion to get through March, another $2 billion for the remainder of 2009, and a $6 billion line of credit beyond that.
 But this is a company that has lost $20 billion so far this year, spent $2 billion a month in cash since July, and consistently missed its sales targets and financial benchmarks.
 G.M. has already cut its American work force in half in the last three years. Yet its latest reorganization plan calls for downsizing its brands and dealerships and cutting another 30,000 jobs -- without addressing how it would generate new revenue.
 Because G.M. also has more than $60 billion in debt outstanding and a bill for $21 billion in retiree health care benefits coming due, experts cannot see how it will survive with temporary government loans.
 ''Even with the most generous assumptions as to operating results and carefully adhering to G.M.'s proposed restructuring, G.M is still a highly distressed company and likely to go bankrupt, probably within in one year,'' said Professor Edward I. Altman, of the Stern School of Business at New York University.
 Despite the willingness of the United Auto Workers union to make concessions on job security and health care payments, G.M. desperately needs its bondholders and other creditors to allow it to revamp its debt payments.
 G.M. could accomplish those ends if it sought bankruptcy protection, but the company maintains steadfastly that a Chapter 11 filing would ruin its already shaky reputation among consumers.
 In a bankruptcy proceeding, the U.A.W. would be in jeopardy of losing its $28-an-hour wage scale and its long-term health care benefits. The union's president, Ron Gettelfinger, argued during the hearings that Congress should appoint a trustee or oversight committee with authority to force concessions from G.M.'s debtors.
 ''What Congress can and should do is put in place a process that would require all the stakeholders to participate outside of bankruptcy,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said.
 But a federally appointed ''car czar'' would hardly have the same legal authority as a bankruptcy judge to demand that bondholders, for example, take equity in exchange for reducing their debt.
 The situations at Ford and Chrysler are a little different, but both companies still have large obligations to debtors and union health care trusts.
 While Mr. Obama has repeatedly said that Chapter 11 is not preferable for the companies, several lawmakers see bankruptcy as the only viable way for the Big Three to get a fresh start as smaller, less-indebted entities.
 ''They could come out leaner and more vibrant and more successful,'' Senator Jeff Sessions, a Republican from Alabama, said Sunday in an appearance on CBS's ''Face the Nation.'' ''This is the way to save jobs.''
 Beside debts and legacy costs, Detroit faces substantial costs to meet new federal fuel-efficiency requirements for cleaner vehicles. The automakers have said it may require $100 billion to remake their fleets, far beyond the $25 billion program that Congress approved to help the companies meet the new standards.
 The mounting cost issues obscure what lies at the heart of the Big Three's current cash crisis -- a shrinking share of a vehicle market that has sunk to levels not seen since the 1980s.
 G.M., Ford and Chrysler have based their turnaround plans and loan requests on market projections that would have seemed outrageously low just a year ago.
 G.M., for example, is tying its profitability to maintaining at least a 20 percent share of an annual United States sales market of about 13 million vehicles.
 That level is far below the 16 million in annual sales that the industry has achieved in recent years, but in line with the depressed levels of 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK WAGONER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



287 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: In Factory Sit-In, an Anger Spread Wide

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The scene inside a long, low-slung factory on this city's North Side this weekend offered a glimpse at how the nation's loss of more than 600,000 manufacturing jobs in a year of recession is boiling over. 
 Workers laid off Friday from Republic Windows and Doors, who for years assembled vinyl windows and sliding doors here, said they would not leave, even after company officials announced that the factory was closing. 
 Some of the plant's 250 workers stayed all night, all weekend, in what they were calling an occupation of the factory. Their sharpest criticisms were aimed at their former bosses, who they said gave them only three days' notice of the closing, and the company's creditors. But their anger stretched broadly to the government's costly corporate bailout plans, which, they argued, had forgotten about regular workers.
 ''They want the poor person to stay down,'' said Silvia Mazon, 47, a mother of two who worked as an assembler here for 13 years and said she had never before been the sort to march in protests or make a fuss. ''We're here, and we're not going anywhere until we get what's fair and what's ours. They thought they would get rid of us easily, but if we have to be here for Christmas, it doesn't matter.''
 The workers, members of Local 1110 of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America, said they were owed vacation and severance pay and were not given the 60 days of notice generally required by federal law when companies make layoffs. Lisa Madigan, the attorney general of Illinois, said her office was investigating, and representatives from her office interviewed workers at the plant on Sunday.
 At a news conference Sunday, President-elect Barack Obama said the company should follow through on its commitments to its workers.
 ''The workers who are asking for the benefits and payments that they have earned,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I think they're absolutely right and understand that what's happening to them is reflective of what's happening across this economy.''
 Company officials, who were no longer at the factory, did not return telephone or e-mail messages. A meeting between the owners and workers is scheduled for Monday. The company, which was founded in 1965 and once employed more than 700 people, had struggled in recent months as home construction dipped, workers said. 
 Still, as they milled around the factory's entrance this weekend, some workers said they doubted that the company was really in financial straits, and they suggested that it would reopen elsewhere with cheaper costs and lower pay. Others said managers had kept their struggles secret, at one point before Thanksgiving removing heavy equipment in the middle of the night but claiming, when asked about it, that all was well.
 Workers also pointedly blamed Bank of America, a lender to Republic Windows, saying the bank had prevented the company from paying them what they were owed, particularly for vacation time accrued.
 ''Here the banks like Bank of America get a bailout, but workers cannot be paid?'' said Leah Fried, an organizer with the union workers. ''The taxpayers would like to see that bailout go toward saving jobs, not saving C.E.O.'s.''
 In a statement issued Saturday, Bank of America officials said they could not comment on an individual client's situation because of confidentiality obligations. Still, a spokeswoman also said, ''Neither Bank of America nor any other third party lender to the company has the right to control whether the company complies with applicable laws or honors its commitments to its employees.''
 Inside the factory, the ''occupation'' was relatively quiet. The Chicago police said that they were monitoring the situation but that they had had no reports of a criminal matter to investigate. 
 About 30 workers sat in folding chairs on the factory floor. (Reporters and supporters were not allowed to enter, but the workers could be observed through an open door.) They came in shifts around the clock. They tidied things. They shoveled snow. They met with visiting leaders, including Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez and Jan Schakowsky, both Democrats from Illinois, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
 Throughout the weekend, people came by with donations of food, water and other supplies.
 The workers said they were determined to keep their action -- reminiscent, union leaders said, of autoworkers' efforts in Michigan in the 1930s -- peaceful and to preserve the factory. 
 ''The fact is that workers really feel like they have nothing to lose at this point,'' Ms. Fried said. ''It shows something about our economic times, and it says something about how people feel about the bailout.''
 Until last Tuesday, many workers here said, they had no sense that there was any problem. Shortly before 1 p.m. that day, workers were told in a meeting that the plant would close Friday, they said. Some people wept, others expressed fury. 
 Many employees said they had worked in the factory for decades. Lalo Munoz, who was among those sleeping over in the building, said he arrived 34 years ago. The workers -- about 80 percent of them Hispanic, with the rest black or of other ethnic and national backgrounds -- made $14 an hour on average and received health care and retirement benefits, Ms. Fried said.
 ''This never happens -- to take a company from the inside,'' Ms. Mazon said. ''But I'm fighting for my family, and we're not going anywhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers laid off from a Chicago factory on Saturday at what they called an occupation of the plant. They criticized their former bosses, the company's creditors and the federal government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETH ROONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CHRISTMAS (64%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (64%); THANKSGIVING (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED ELECTRICAL RADIO & MACHINE WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: LISA MADIGAN (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



288 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Tribune Co., in Debt, Could Be Flirting With Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Tribune Company, the newspaper chain that owns The Chicago Tribune and The Los Angeles Times, is trying to negotiate new terms with its creditors and has hired advisers for a possible bankruptcy filing, according to people briefed on the matter.
 Tribune is in danger of falling below the cash flow required under its agreement with its bondholders, but it is not clear how seriously Tribune is thinking about seeking bankruptcy protection. Analysts and bankruptcy experts say that the hiring of advisers, including Lazard and Sidley Austin, one of the company's longtime law firms, could be a just-in-case move, or a bargaining tactic. The company would not comment on Sunday. 
 Tribune went private last December, paying more than $8 billion in a deal that put Samuel Zell, a real estate billionaire, in control of the company. It has struggled since then under the resulting debt, forcing deep cuts at its newspapers. It also sold Newsday to raise cash.
 The Tribune Company owns 23 TV stations and 12 newspapers, including two of the eight largest in the country by circulation. As of Sept. 30, The Los Angeles Times had weekday circulation of 739,000 and the Chicago Tribune had 542,000.
 Tribune has been trying to sell the Chicago Cubs baseball team; the team's stadium, Wrigley Field; and the company's share in a regional cable sports network. Such a deal, which could bring the company more than $1 billion, has been a crucial part of its strategy since last year.
 But the sale -- originally expected to take place before the last baseball season -- has been delayed by several factors, including the tight credit market. 
 It is not clear how recent federal allegations of insider trading against Mark Cuban, believed to be the highest bidder, could affect the sale.
 Rating agencies say Tribune's short-term problem is not in making payments on its debt. Instead, the company is struggling to comply with a requirement that its main debt from its acquisition of the company not exceed nine times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
 A quarterly test of that compliance is expected at the end of this month. A failure to comply would mean Tribune had technically defaulted, even if it continued to make payments. Technical defaults can sometimes lead to bankruptcy.
 Companies in that position usually negotiate new terms with their lenders, often paying higher interest rates in return for less stringent cash-flow requirements. But such negotiations have become more difficult in recent years, as lenders have become more likely to sell pieces of debt to third parties, which must approve any new terms.
 Like most newspapers, Tribune's have suffered double-digit percentage declines in advertising this year, as ads and readers continue to shift to the Internet, and the recession has prompted retailers and other businesses to curtail their ad spending. What makes Tribune's problems more serious is the heavy debt load it carries as a result of last year's buyout. 
 The weak state of newspapers has made some lenders more loath than usual to force bankruptcy, fearing that it could worsen their chance of significant recovery, or at least delay it.
 The companies that own The Inquirer and The Daily News in Philadelphia and The Star Tribune in Minneapolis recently suspended debt payments but have not filed for bankruptcy.
 As the economy weakens, other lenders have become more aggressive about forcing debtors into bankruptcy when they believe such a move is inevitable, to preserve a company's valuable cash reserves. Delaying can make it hard to emerge from bankruptcy successfully.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); BASEBALL (87%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); EBITDA (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); GOING PRIVATE (74%); RETAILERS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); BONDS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (67%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (95%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%); SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (78%); MARK CUBAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



289 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Obama Warns of Further Economic Pain

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON; Peter Baker and John M. Broder contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Saying that the United States economy was likely to worsen before it improves, President-elect Barack Obama on Sunday pledged to pursue a recovery plan ''equal to the task ahead,'' including the creation of a vast public-works program not just built around bridge and highway projects, but on creating ''green jobs'' and disseminating new technologies.
 Even if the current economic crisis looks nothing like the Great Depression, Mr. Obama said, ''This is a big problem, and it's going to get worse.'' 
 In a pre-taped interview with NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Obama said that the survival of the domestic automobile industry was important; yet he said that any bailout should be tied to a reinvention and streamlining by Detroit to create an industry ''that really works.''
 With Congress expected to act within days on the automakers' urgent pleas for help, Mr. Obama said the auto industry had made ''repeated, strategic mistakes,'' but that ''I don't think it's an option to simply allow it to collapse.'' He reiterated his position about the auto industry during a news conference later in the day.
 ''I think Congress is doing exactly the right thing by asking for a conditions-based assistance package that holds the auto industry's feet to the fire,'' he said. Asked whether the automakers' top executives should lose their jobs if they fail to perform, Mr. Obama took a tough position.
 ''If this management team that's currently in place doesn't understand the urgency of the situation and is not willing to make tough choices and adapt to new circumstances,'' he said, ''then they should go.''
 As his transition team formulates its plans for recovery from one of the deepest economic declines in decades, Mr. Obama promised far tougher regulation of the financial sector.
 ''As part of our economic recovery package, what you will see coming out of my administration right at the center,'' he said, ''is a strong set of new financial regulations, in which banks, ratings agencies, mortgage brokers, a whole bunch of folks start having to be much more accountable and behave much more responsibly.''
 He also said that he was disappointed that the current administration had not moved more decisively to ease the plight of troubled home owners, and said he would make it a top priority to help them.
 The president-elect reiterated his pledge to give tax cuts to 95 percent of Americans, and he said that the days of the rich benefiting disproportionately while the middle class loses ground were a ''real aberration.'' He would not say whether he favored raising taxes quickly on the wealthiest Americans, or waiting for the Bush tax cuts to expire in 2011, to the same effect.
 With jobs evaporating and the recession deepening, the biggest news Mr. Obama made over the weekend, laid out in an address on Saturday, probably came in the details he offered for the recovery program he is trying to fashion with congressional leaders in hopes of being able to enact it shortly after being sworn in on Jan. 20.
 It would be, he told NBC, ''the largest infrastructure program in roads and bridges and other traditional infrastructure since the building of the federal highway system in the 1950s.''
 His address followed a report on Friday indicating that the country lost 533,000 jobs in November alone, bringing the total number of jobs lost over the past year to nearly 2 million.
 Mr. Obama would not put a dollar value on his proposed works program, but said the key in deciding which projects to fund would be not ''the old, traditional politics'' but in determining how the government would get ''the most bang for the buck'' while assuring accountability.
 Mr. Obama's wide-ranging NBC interview was aired a few hours before an afternoon news conference at which he said he would nominate General Eric Shinseki as the new secretary of veterans affairs. The general had a falling out with the Bush administration after saying before the invasion of Iraq that the occupation would require hundreds of thousands of American troops.
 ''He was right,'' Mr. Obama told NBC's Tom Brokaw. Mr. Obama sidestepped Mr. Brokaw's question about the pace of a troop withdrawal from Iraq, saying he would confer with . generals on a plan ''for a responsible drawdown.'' He has hinted that his planned 16-month withdrawal of combat troops might be adjusted based on the generals' advice.
 He reiterated his intention to pursue ''tough but direct'' diplomacy with Iran over its nuclear program.
 And, at a time of considerable tension with Russia, he said that his administration would ''reset U.S.-Russia relations'' -- without offering any elaboration of how he planned to do that.
 Despite the bleak economic picture awaiting him, Mr. Obama sought to project an air of determined optimism.
 ''I am absolutely confident,'' he said during his afternoon news conference, ''that if we take the right steps over the coming months, that not only can we get the economy back on track, but we can emerge leaner, meaner and ultimately more competitive and more prosperous.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TAX LAW (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); HOMEOWNERS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



290 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: A Good Power Broker Is Getting Harder to Find

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
A little more than a generation ago, Edward N. Costikyan, a prominent lawyer and the leader of the Democratic Party in Manhattan, would regularly rank the ''10 Most Powerful New Yorkers'' for New York magazine.
 ''Who are the power brokers?'' Mayor John V. Lindsay asked in 1966, when he defiantly challenged their hegemony. ''They know who they are.''
 Forty years later, it's harder to figure out. More people -- in and out of government -- seem to share less power. And for Richard Ravitch, who is trying to win support for a financial rescue plan for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, that seeming decline in the personal wattage of New York luminaries is no mere abstraction. 
 Three decades ago, when the city was facing another financial crisis, Mr. Ravitch, who later became the transportation authority chairman, drafted a rescue for the state's Urban Development Corporation and then for the authority. Those plans demanded a huge investment of political capital that a handful of public figures were empowered -- and prepared -- to make. 
 Last week, Mr. Ravitch delivered a similarly daring tax-and-toll mass transit-financing formula to Gov. David A. Paterson. Fares would go up some, but less than anticipated. A regional payroll tax would be required. That proverbial hot potato -- tolls on bridges over the East and Harlem Rivers -- would be imposed. But the increased revenue might actually improve transit service. 
 This time, though, for all the talk of the three men in a room who supposedly control Albany and of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's melding of public power and private wealth, fewer people seem armed with real power to broker -- or, at least, with the willingness to broker a rescue. (The mayor squandered some of his on extending term limits and, now that he is seeking re-election, might be less willing to risk more by embracing bridge tolls.) 
 As Governor Paterson gamely put it the other day, ''This is a very difficult endeavor, but we are trying to show leadership.''
 Years ago, the city's unofficial permanent government included labor leaders like Harry Van Arsdale, who could settle strikes with a wink, and Victor Gotbaum, who, with enlightened self-interest, invested union pension funds in city securities to avoid municipal bankruptcy. 
 And Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, along with his brother David, the banker, harnessed a personal fortune to elective office to achieve a public agenda. Democratic county leaders, like Carmine DeSapio of Manhattan and Charles A. Buckley of the Bronx, could be depended on to deliver the votes not only of their constituents, but also of their county delegations to the City Council and State Legislature. 
 Before globalization became the norm, bank presidents and corporate executives had a personal, professional and financial stake in the city. 
 ''In the old days,'' said Howard J. Rubenstein, the city's premier public relations counsel, ''if you wanted to get something done, all you had to do is make one or two phone calls.''
 Stephen Berger, another public-minded citizen who last year headed a state commission that recommended hospital closings, once noted that in other cities, business, labor, government, civic and community leaders would gather and in a few hours decide on a course of action.
 ''All the players buy into it, and most of it gets implemented,'' said Mr. Berger, who works in the financial industry. ''In New York, most of those people don't know each other. If you try to put all of them in a room, the room would be Madison Square Garden.'' 
 There was a downside, of course, to the benevolent despotism personified in the 20th century by mayors like Frank Hague of Jersey City, who proclaimed ''I am the law,'' and Fiorello H. La Guardia of New York, who reminded one recalcitrant lawmaker: ''I'm the majority.'' 
 Their mind-set was summed up by Robert Moses, invoking his favorite aphorism. ''If the ends don't justify the means,'' he liked to say, ''what does?'' 
 That attitude culminated in a political backlash that doomed the Westway highway project in Manhattan in 1985 -- despite the support of powerful officials -- and spurred the diffusion of institutional and centralized power. 
 Power broker, a title attributed to Theodore H. White, chronicler of presidential campaigns, had been replaced by what he dubbed ''constellations of satrapies'' -- shifting coalitions dependent on process brokers skilled at navigating bureaucracy. 
 ''A whole generation,'' Mr. Costikyan said in an interview when Westway was dying a slow death, ''has been brought up believing that leadership is out of place and in bad taste, that you have to find out what your people think first and that you can't take a chance.''
 ''If I wanted to do something today and was promised 10 people to make it happen, who would I pick?'' Mr. Costikyan asked rhetorically. ''I'd be hard pressed. Because when you say, 'What is power?' one question is, 'Is there power?' ''
 Yes, there is, said Robert A. Caro, who called his epic biography of Robert Moses ''The Power Broker.'' Mr. Ravitch's challenge, he said, was to persuade gutsy public officials to exercise power on behalf of an agenda that Moses, who championed highways over mass transit, rejected. 
 ''It's not a lack of power,'' Mr. Caro said in an interview. ''It's a lack of vision -- of a vast metropolitan area as a single whole and what is necessary to tie that area together in a way that makes every segment of the population one. There are public officials with plenty of power. That power is just never thrown behind mass transit in the way it should be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); TERM LIMITS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); PENSION FUNDS (60%); GOVERNORS (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



291 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Bailout Is to Bring On U.S. Oversight

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and JACKIE CALMES; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Washington, and Jackie Calmes from Chicago. Peter Baker and John M. Broder contributed reporting from Washington, and Bill Vlasic from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats were drafting legislation Sunday for tight government control of the crippled American auto industry, including the possible creation of an oversight board made up of five cabinet secretaries and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency and led by an independent chairman or ''car czar.'' 
 While the form of oversight was still to be negotiated by Congressional Democrats and the White House, the talks made clear the extent to which the auto companies would have to submit to substantial government supervision in order to receive a taxpayer-financed bailout. 
 Whatever oversight entity is created, it would direct the drastic reorganization plans that the auto companies have said they were willing to undertake in exchange for billions of dollars in short-term government loans to keep them in business, a senior Congressional aide said. A main factor complicating the deliberations was the imminent transition between the Bush and Obama administrations. 
 The discussions of how strong a hand the government should take with the auto industry came as Congressional and White House negotiators sought to put the final touches on emergency bridge loans of about $15 billion to keep General Motors, Chrysler and Ford afloat.
 The final legislation is also expected to impose stringent taxpayer protections, including stock warrants that would give the government an equity stake in the three companies, new limits on executive pay and a ban on stock dividends while the loans are outstanding. One proposal would require the auto companies to seek government approval for any business transaction of $25 million or more. 
 Once a bill offering aid to the industry is completed by Congressional Democrats and the White House, it would still need the approval of some Senate Republicans. Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, one of the auto industry's biggest supporters, said on Sunday that it was uncertain whether the plan would win the 60 votes needed to advance in the Senate.
 President-elect Barack Obama, whose transition team has been involved in the talks, made starkly clear in an interview and at a brief news conference on Sunday that any aid to the Big Three auto companies should not come without significant concessions. 
 ''They're going to have to restructure,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC. ''And all their stakeholders are going to have restructure. Labor, management, shareholders, creditors -- everybody is going to recognize that they have -- they do not have a sustainable business model right now, and if they expect taxpayers to help in that adjustment process, then they can't keep on putting off the kinds of changes that they, frankly, should have made 20 or 30 years ago.'' 
 Still, the bill seemed likely to stop short of authorizing the broad powers that some lawmakers had urged to allow what could have amounted to an out-of-court bankruptcy proceeding, in which the automakers' creditors could be forced to accept reduced payments, labor contracts could be rewritten and executives could be summarily dismissed.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the chairman of the banking committee that is drafting the legislation, called for the dismissal or resignation of Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of G.M., which is the most imperiled automaker.
 ''I think you've got to consider new leadership,'' Mr. Dodd said Sunday in an interview on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''If you're going to really restructure this, you've got to bring in a new team to do this, in my view.'' 
 Asked specifically about Mr. Wagoner, Mr. Dodd said: ''I think he has to move on.'' 
 A G.M. spokesman, Steve Harris, said that the company was grateful for Mr. Dodd's assistance and that it was willing to accept tough oversight, but that it retained confidence in Mr. Wagoner. 
 ''We appreciate Senator Dodd's support in trying to provide some assistance for the industry, but General Motors' employees, dealers, suppliers and the G.M. board of directors feel strongly that Rick Wagoner is the right person to continue the transformation of the company that he began and has presented plans to Congress to continue and accelerate,'' Mr. Harris said. 
 All of the proposals made clear that Congressional Democrats and the White House, furious over the need for another huge corporate bailout, intended to make the automakers pay a price far greater than the 5 percent interest on the emergency loans.
 Congressional Democrats said that if any of the companies failed to meet government requirements by the end of March, the emergency loans could be called in for immediate repayment. 
 At the news conference in Chicago, Mr. Obama affirmed his position that it would be unacceptable to allow the auto industry to collapse. But using somewhat tougher language than he had before, he said it made ''no sense for us to shovel more money into the problem'' if the companies are unwilling to reorganize. 
 The Bush White House, in its proposal for an auto rescue plan, called for the creation of a ''financial viability adviser'' within the Commerce Department charged with negotiating a ''long-term financial viability plan'' for each of the auto companies.
 If such a viability plan could not be negotiated, the White House proposal called for allowing the adviser to mandate one.
 Democrats were weighing counterproposals calling for the creation of a full oversight board, made up of the secretaries of commerce, energy, labor, transportation and of the Treasury, and the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
 Many lawmakers in both parties say they are troubled by the Bush administration's handling of the $700 billion financial system rescue, which Congress approved in October. Several lawmakers said they did not want to be pressured again into spending billions of taxpayer dollars to rescue private companies. 
 ''I think Congress is tired of being stampeded,'' Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said on ''Face the Nation.'' ''We haven't even seen a bill yet. So I think there's still a lot of skepticism out there.''
 Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, on ''Fox News Sunday'' urged his Republican colleagues to filibuster a bailout bill. ''I think this is a bridge loan to nowhere,'' he said.
 As lawmakers grappled with ways to aid the auto industry. Mr. Obama cautioned on ''Meet the Press'' that it was critical to think about both short- and long-term solutions to the nation's economic woes. ''Things are going to get worse before they get better,'' Mr. Obama said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (72%); DIVIDENDS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); CARL LEVIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



292 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 281 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC INDICATORS A new round of data on housing, trade and retail conditions comes after dismal numbers last week.
 Reports will include pending home sales for October (Tuesday); wholesale trade for October (Wednesday); the trade deficit for October and import prices for November (Thursday); and retail sales for November, the Producer Price Index for November and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey (Friday). 
 COMPANY REPORTS In a light week for corporate earnings, reports will come from H&R Block (Monday), Kroger (Tuesday) and Costco Wholesale (Thursday).
 EUROPEAN SUMMIT Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain meets with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France; Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission; and European business leaders on Europe and the economy (Monday).
 IN WASHINGTON The vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Donald L. Kohn, speaks on a panel at the Office of Thrift Supervision's national housing forum in Washington (Monday).
 The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform conducts a hearing on the collapse of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Tuesday).
 ET CETERA A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit hears oral arguments on the bribery convictions of former Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama and Richard M. Scrushy, above, the former chief executive of HealthSouth (Tuesday).
 Texas Instruments gives its midquarter report and 3M releases its outlook for 2009 (Monday).
 Delta Air Lines holds a meeting for investors, the first after its merger with Northwest Airlines (Tuesday). 
 Nobel Prizes for economics, physics, chemistry and medicine will be awarded (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); NOBEL PRIZES (79%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); AIRLINES (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); JUDGES (67%); BRIBERY (66%); APPEALS COURTS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (58%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (58%); HRB (NYSE) (57%); HLS (NYSE) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (54%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (54%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (54%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (54%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008



293 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Modified Loans Often Lead Homeowners Back to Trouble

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Most troubled homeowners whose mortgages were modified are again falling behind on payments, a top banking regulator said on Monday, raising questions about whether policy makers and lenders can successfully help them stay in their homes. 
 Data from banks show that more than half of loans modified during the first three months of the year were delinquent by 30 days just six months after the terms of the loans were changed, John C. Dugan, the comptroller of the currency, said at a conference in Washington. After eight months, 58 percent were delinquent again. 
 The rate at which borrowers fall behind payments again -- called the re-default rate -- appears to be much higher than what previous studies have found. In October, a Credit Suisse study showed that about 30 percent of loans modified at the end of last year were delinquent by 60 days within eight months of the change.
 Mr. Dugan said it was unclear why the re-default rates were so high after modifications made by the 14 banks that provided data to his office. He acknowledged that ''we have to be careful as we look at this data.'' One explanation for the high re-default rate might be that banks were not significantly changing the terms of the loans they modified.
 Analysts at Credit Suisse have found that modifications that do not lower borrowers' monthly payments were more than twice as likely to become delinquent again than changes that reduced payments. Banks like Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America have only recently put more emphasis on lowering monthly payments.
 Some loans may also be so poorly underwritten that no modification could help the borrowers stay in homes that they can no longer afford, Mr. Dugan said. That would confirm other studies that show homeowners who become delinquent are much more likely to lose their homes today than in the past.
 The Mortgage Bankers Association said last week that 30 percent of homeowners who miss one payment end up in foreclosure a few months later. Historically, only 12 percent to 15 percent fell that far behind and most borrowers were able to catch up, sell their home or strike a better deal with their lender. In California, however, 75 percent of homeowners who miss one payment end up in foreclosure; in Florida, 65 percent who miss a payment do.
 A sharp drop in home prices has made it much harder for homeowners to sell their properties for as much as they owe and rising unemployment is putting more borrowers in financial distress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%)

PERSON: JOHN C DUGAN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



294 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Dow Chemical to Slim Down in Face of Recession

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Dow Chemical said Monday it would cut 5,000 full-time jobs -- about 11 percent of its work force -- close 20 plants and sell several businesses to rein in costs amid the recession. 
 The company, one of the largest chemical makers in the world, expects the move will save about $700 million a year by 2010. Dow also will temporarily idle 180 plants and eliminate 6,000 contractors from its payroll.
 Dow, which is based in Midland, Mich., said it would take a fourth-quarter charge of $700 million, or 50 cents to 60 cents a share, to cover $350 million in severance payments and $350 million in plant shutdown costs.
 ''We are accelerating the implementation of these measures as the current world economy has deteriorated sharply, and we must adjust ourselves to the severity of this downturn,'' Andrew N. Liveris, the chief executive, said in a statement.
 Last month, Dow Chemical had said it would review all options to reduce costs and eliminate or defer capital spending. 
 Its rival DuPont said last week that it would cut 2,500 jobs and eliminate 4,000 contractors. It also said it would idle 100 manufacturing units and warned that it would not make a profit in the fourth quarter because of a slowdown in the automotive and construction markets.
 Dow's shares jumped $1.37, or 7 percent, to $20.37 in afternoon trading. 
 The reorganization comes just days after the company closed on a plan to spin part of its plastics business into a joint venture with a Kuwaiti company that will be called K-Dow Petrochemicals and located in Michigan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (69%); EXECUTIVES (53%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); PLASTICS (50%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (91%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (91%); DOW (NYSE) (91%); DOW (LSE) (91%); 4850 (TSE) (91%); ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW N LIVERIS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



295 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: City Growing More Diverse, Census Finds

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Since 2000, the number of young children living in parts of Lower Manhattan has nearly doubled. The poverty rate declined in all but one New York City neighborhood. A majority of Bronx residents are Hispanic. 
 And the number of white people living in Harlem more than tripled, helping to drive up median household income there by nearly 20 percent -- the fourth-highest jump in the city.
 Those are some of the more striking trends revealed in new census figures that produce the most detailed snapshot of New York City neighborhoods and of the metropolitan area's smaller cities and towns since the 2000 census. 
 Many of the findings regarding income, poverty and migration are likely to be affected by the recession, which began about the same time that the latest survey was completed, in December 2007. Demographers said that some of the survey's brighter spots might well be remembered as the high-water marks of the Wall Street boom.
 But by providing detailed demographic information for districts as small as 20,000 people and combining the results of three years of surveys, the findings also provided some of the clearest statistical evidence of trends involving race, ethnicity, education, housing costs and other subjects. 
 Those trends until now had been suggested for the most part anecdotally. 
 In almost every category, the results demonstrated the city's diversity and dynamism. In Sunset Park, Brooklyn, for example, the proportion of residents who do not speak English at home declined by more than 17 percent -- an indication of gentrification in a heavily Hispanic and Asian area. But on the southern part of Staten Island, the share rose by 26 percent because of an influx of Chinese and Spanish speakers. (The area already had a significant number of Italian and Russian speakers.)
 Since 2000, the Dominican Republic, China and Mexico have sent the most people to New York: 81,000, 77,000 and 69,000. There were also large influxes of immigrants from Bangladesh and Pakistan, and from Ghana and elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa. (First- and second-generation Africans and Caribbean immigrants now account for about 4 in 10 of the city's black residents.) 
 In the Bronx, the flow of Dominicans and Mexicans helped push the Hispanic population past 51 percent. 
 Over all, the proportion of New Yorkers born abroad remained around 37 percent, the same as in 2000. But the proportion of foreign born who are American citizens passed a tipping point, to 50.8 percent in 2007 from 45 percent in 2000.
 Underscoring the growing diversity of the suburbs, the survey found that the median age in Kiryas Joel in Orange County is just over 14 -- making it the youngest community in the country with 20,000 or more people. The town's youthfulness reflects the high birth rates of its Hasidic community.
 Lakewood, N.J., an Orthodox Jewish enclave and home to one of the nation's largest yeshivas, was in second place, with a median age of 20. 
 Darien and Westport, Conn., were among the wealthiest towns in the country with populations between 20,000 and 65,000, making a list of nine places where the median family income exceeded $150,000. In Darien, it was $195,905; in Westport, $176,740. 
 The latest results represent a three-year rolling count by the American Community Survey, a continuing profile of the country compiled by the Census Bureau, from 2005 to 2007. 
 ''It was taken on the eve of a downturn,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College, who analyzed the results for The New York Times. ''There's been a shift in the cities, but can it sustain itself? The increase in children in Manhattan, for example, is fueled by the fact that the parents have a lot of money. But that is tied to the financial industry, directly or indirectly.''
 Joseph J. Salvo, director of the Department of City Planning's Population Division, was more sanguine about the potential impact of the recession. 
 ''If 9/11 gives us any experience,'' he said, ''the dislocation will be of a temporary nature. There may be some changes in migration, but people really like to seek out the city as a destination to live.''
 The Census Bureau's American Community Survey fleshed out earlier and sketchier profiles of the city. 
 The city, it seems, became better educated. Since 2000, the share of New Yorkers who are high school graduates rose to 79 percent from 72 percent. The share with bachelor's degrees increased to 32 percent from 27 percent. 
 The survey estimated that the number of children under 5 in Manhattan increased, the result largely of white people moving into the city or staying to raise families, demographers said. In an area of downtown including portions of Battery Park City, TriBeCa and SoHo, the number of children rose to about 8,000 from about 4,000.
 But Mr. Salvo cautioned that the census estimates may have overstated the increase, saying school enrollment and other data do not entirely bear it out. Outside of Manhattan, the number of school-age children has declined, in part because of Hispanic families moving to the suburbs. 
 The survey found a significant rise in the average size of households, to 2.67 people from 2.59 and in family size, to 3.49 people from 3.32. That increase largely reflects higher fertility rates among newer immigrants, demographers said. 
 In Fort Greene, Brooklyn, households headed by women declined by 21 percent. In the Rockaways, they rose by 17 percent. In a portion of the West Side of Manhattan, the share of households made up of same-sex unmarried partners increased to 3.6 percent from 2.5 percent. 
 The increase in median household income in Harlem was propelled by white people -- theirs went up by 52 percent. Among Harlem's black residents, income rose by 9 percent. The only neighborhoods with larger percentage increases in median household income were Park Slope-Cobble Hill and Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn, and the lower West Side of Manhattan.
 Black New Yorkers also recorded increases in median household income in Jamaica, the Rockaways and Richmond Hill, Queens, and in Brownsville and Coney Island, Brooklyn. The survey found that the poverty rate rose in only one neighborhood: Morris Heights in the Bronx, by less than one percentage point.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Since 2000, the number of white residents in Harlem more than tripled, helping raise the median income there, new figures show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH BEDFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) CHARTS: Income and Rent: Median household income has risen in some areas of New York City since 2000, but fallen in others. Median rent has increased everywhere. Charts detail Change in median income 2000 to 2007, in 2007 dollars and Change in median rent, 2000 to 2007.(Source: Census
 Queens College Department of Sociology) (pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CENSUS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); CITIES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); ETHNICITY (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); SUBURBS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RELIGION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (90%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); GHANA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



296 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Lowers 2009 Earnings Forecast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The FedEx Corporation reduced its forecast for fiscal 2009 earnings and capital spending on Monday as the slumping economy cut into package deliveries. 
 FedEx said it expected to earn $3.50 to $4.75 a share for the fiscal year ending in May, down from its previous estimate of $4.75 to $5.25 a share. Analysts were predicting that the company would earn $5.15 a share, according to ThomsonReuters.
 Shares of FedEx fell $8.49, or 11.4 percent, to $65.94 in extended trading.
 In cutting its profit forecast, the delivery company acknowledged that the slumping economy had trumped lower fuel prices. Some analysts had thought that the news that DHL was ending domestic shipments in the United States would raise FedEx package volumes 3 to 6 percent and give it more power to raise prices. 
 FedEx gave a better outlook for its fiscal second quarter, which ended Nov. 30. The company said it expected to report earnings of $1.58 a share.
 The company, which is based in Memphis, is scheduled to release its latest quarterly financial results on Dec. 18.
 The results in the last quarter were helped by rapidly falling fuel prices and cost controls, said Alan B. Graf Jr., chief financial officer for FedEx.
 But demand weakened throughout the quarter and global economic trends were worsening, Mr. Graf said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); SHIPMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



297 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Financial Crisis Tames Demand for World's Oldest Service

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Jan Krcmar contributed reporting from Prague, and Victor Homola from Berlin.

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
On a recent night at Big Sister, which calls itself the world's biggest Internet brothel, a middle-aged man selected a prostitute by pressing an electronic menu on a flat-screen TV to review the age, hair color, weight and languages spoken by the women on offer. 
 Once he had chosen an 18-year-old brunette, he put on a mandatory terry-cloth robe and proceeded to one of the brothel's luridly lighted theme rooms: an Alpine suite decorated with foam rubber mountains covered with fake snow. 
 Nearby, in the brothel's cramped control room, two young technicians worked dozens of hidden cameras that would film the man's performance and stream it, live, onto Big Sister's Web site. 
 Customers can have sex free of charge at Big Sister, in return for signing a release form allowing the brothel to film their sexual exploits. 
 But even with this financial incentive, Carl Borowitz, 26, Big Sister's marketing manager, a Moravian computer engineer, lamented that the global financial crisis had diminished the number of sex tourists coming to Prague. 
 ''Sex is a steady demand, because everyone needs it, and it used to be taboo, which made a service like ours all the more attractive,'' said Mr. Borowitz, who looks more like Harry Potter than Larry Flynt. ''But the problem today is that there is too much competition and our clients don't have as much disposable income as before.'' 
 In the Czech Republic, where prostitution operates in a legal gray zone, the sex industry is big business, generating more than $500 million in annual revenues, 60 percent of which is derived from foreign visitors, according to Mag Consulting, a Prague-based research firm that studies the industry. 
 Big Sister is not the only brothel suffering the effects of a battered global economy. While the world's oldest profession may also be one of its most recession-proof businesses, brothel owners in Europe and the United States say the global financial crisis is hurting a once lucrative industry. 
 Egbert Krumeich, the manager of Artemis, Berlin's largest brothel, said that in November, usually peak season for the sex trade, revenues were down by 20 percent. In Reno, Nev., the famed Mustang Ranch recently laid off 30 percent of its staff, citing a decline in high-spending clients. 
 Big Sister is not struggling as much as some of its more traditional rivals, since its revenues are largely derived from the 30 euros a month, or about $38, its 10,000 clients pay to gain access to its site. 
 But Mr. Borowitz said Big Sister hoped to offset a 15 percent drop in revenues over the past quarter by expanding into the United States. The brothel also produces cable TV shows that air on Sky Italia and Britain's Television X, as well as DVDs like ''World Cup Love Truck.''
 Ester, an 18-year-old prostitute at Big Sister who declined to give her last name, said that big-spending clients had diminished, but that she was still earning nearly 2,000 euros a month -- enough to pay the rent and buy Louis Vuitton bags. ''The reason to do this is for the money,'' she said, after gyrating half-naked on a pole. Being filmed, she added, made her feel more like an actress than a sex object. 
 Since the fall of Communism in 1989, the Czech Republic has become a major transit and destination country for women and girls trafficked from countries farther east like Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Moldova, according to the police.
 For nearly 20 years, tens of thousands of sex tourists have streamed into Prague, the pristinely beautiful Czech capital, drawn by inexpensive erotic services, an atmosphere of anonymity for customers and a liberal population tolerant of adultery. According to Mag Consulting, 14 percent of Czech men admit to having sex with prostitutes, compared with a European Union average of 10 percent. 
 Dozens of cheap flights to Prague have also ensured a flow of bachelor parties from across Europe, with multiple daily flights from Britain alone.
 Jaromir Beranek, an analyst with Mag Consulting, said the strength of the Czech crown against the euro, lower spending power and competition from lower-cost sex capitals like Riga, Latvia, and Krakow, Poland, were threatening one of the country's most thriving sectors.
 Many Czechs are more than happy to see Prague shrug off its reputation as one of the world's top 20 sex destinations. But some in the hotel industry are so alarmed by the drop in tourists that they are lobbying the government to legalize the trade, in the hope that it will help lure more clients. 
 While some critics have warned that legalization would effectively transform the Czech state into the country's biggest pimp, the Czech government is considering whether to emulate the Netherlands and Germany by regulating prostitution like any other industry. It is considering passing legislation by the end of the year that would require the Czech Republic's estimated 10,000 prostitutes to register with the local authorities. 
 Dzamila Stehlikova, a minister from the Green Party, who is shepherding the bill through Parliament, argued that by forcing the business out into the open, it would make it harder for human traffickers to thrive, while helping to ensure mandatory health checkups for prostitutes. Other advocates argued that legalization would generate millions of euros in lost tax revenue from an industry that was largely underground. 
 Not everyone is enthusiastic; the prostitutes themselves say that being issued prostitution identification cards would further stigmatize them. 
 Hana Malinova, director of Bliss Without Risk, a prostitution outreach group, said she feared the current credit crunch was pushing more poor women into prostitution, since they could make more money selling their bodies -- about 120 euros for a half-hour session at some upscale sex clubs in Prague -- than flipping burgers at McDonald's. 
 Even with the downturn, she added, prostitution was far more resilient than other industries, though the downturn was discouraging adultery. 
 ''An Austrian farmer from a remote area who is not married will still cross the border to the Czech Republic looking for sex,'' she said. ''On the other hand, the recession is helping to keep husbands at home who might otherwise be cheating on their wives.'' 
 In Czech towns near the German border in northern Bohemia, long blighted by a daily influx of sex tourists, many are happy that the business is suffering.
 Only a few years ago the town of Dubi was so overrun by prostitution that a nearby orphanage was opened to provide refuge for dozens of unwanted babies of prostitutes and their German clients. Sex could be purchased for as little as 5 euros -- the price of a few beers in Dresden -- drawing a daily influx of more than 1,000 sex tourists. 
 Today, more than three dozen brothels have been winnowed down to four; several were converted into goulash restaurants or golf clubs. 
 Petr Pipal, Dubi's conservative mayor whose zero-tolerance policy was a key reason for the change, said that installing surveillance cameras and police officers at the entrance of brothels had deterred sex tourists. Rising prices for sex services and the global financial crisis, he added, were also helping to tame demand. 
 ''Two or three years ago, we would get 1,000 men coming here for sex on a Friday night, which is a lot for a town of 8,000 people,'' he said. ''The one good thing about the economic crisis is that it is helping to keep sex tourists away.'' 
 In Prague, even brothels in the most touristy areas complain they are suffering from economic hardship. On a recent night near Wenceslas Square in Prague, dozens of young men loitered outside a row of neon-lighted sex clubs, beckoning passing tourists with offers of complementary alcohol and racy strip shows. 
 Inside Darling, a multilevel cabaret famous for cancan shows modeled on the Moulin Rouge in Paris, young women gyrated on a stage, surrounded by leopard skin couches, flashing disco balls and paintings of naked women. 
 Suzana Brezinova, the club's marketing director, said some high-spending businessmen still visited Darling to shrug off economic doldrums.
 ''People have less money,'' she said. ''But hard times also mean that people want to be cheered up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A prostitute in Dubi, the Czech Republic, waited for clients. The town's conservative mayor thanked the downturn for ''helping to keep sex tourists away.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KURT VINION FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); ENGINEERING (74%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (87%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); RENO, NV, USA (51%) NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (87%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



298 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Those Taking Graduate Test Abruptly Drop In Number

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
In bad times, the conventional wisdom has it, people flock to graduate school. But there is at least one sign that in this recession, that may not happen.
 After years of steady growth, the number of students taking the Graduate Record Examination, which is required for most graduate programs, is on course to decline this year. 
 At the start of the year, the Educational Testing Service, which administers the $140 exam, projected that 675,000 students would take it by year's end. Now the service estimates that the total will be only about 621,000. 
 A record 633,000 students took the G.R.E. last year, up from 577,000 in 2006 and 539,000 in 2005.
 David G. Payne, the service's associate vice president for college and graduate programs, said it was too soon to predict what the decline would mean for next fall's enrollment. 
 ''On a percentage basis, it's a very small decrease,'' Mr. Payne said. ''I think there are several things going on. The perception that there's a lack of available credit may be contributing. It may be a question of timing, with people delaying their tests. There's been such financial disruption that there's a kind of freezing effect.'' 
 Mr. Payne said he thought that test volume might rise after the first of the year. In September, his organization undertook a campaign to encourage students to take the exam while they were still in college, even if they had no immediate plans for graduate school, since college students tend to score higher than those who take the test after they have been in the work force for a few years. 
 ''We had a record number of registrations in September,'' Mr. Payne said. ''That doesn't mean they took the test, because they can register up to a year ahead.'' 
 Declines are projected this year among American and international students alike. The number of American test-takers is expected to drop to 449,000, from 456,000 last year, and the number of test-takers abroad is expected to drop to 172,000, from 177,000. 
 China and India generally send the most graduate students to the United States, but while the number of Chinese students taking the exam is up again this year, the number of Indians doing so is off sharply. According to the Educational Testing Service's current projections, about 52,000 Chinese students will have taken the G.R.E. by the end of the year, compared with 41,000 last year. For Indian students, this year's figure is 55,000, down from 74,000 last year. 
 Most of the nation's 2.2 million graduate students are earning master's degrees in fields like accounting, education, public health, business and public administration. 
 ''If historic patterns hold, enrollments should rise in a recession, but they have not yet,'' said Debra W. Stewart, president of the Council of Graduate Schools. ''We're trying to figure out why the pattern is changing, and the loan situation can't be ignored. 
 ''If you take a field like education, nearly 60 percent of students report self-funding as their primary source of support, and what self-funding means is a mixture of personal savings and loans.'' 
 And while the expectation might typically be that an economy in recession will pull out of it within two years -- about the time needed to get a master's degree -- the severity of the current financial situation may be making people wary about leaving a job, even a bad job, to go to graduate school, Dr. Stewart said. 
 In doctoral programs that support students with fellowships or teaching assistantships, she said, the recession and looming budget cuts will also take a toll. 
 ''Clearly the decline in available teaching assistantships is going to translate into fewer students,'' Dr. Stewart said. ''I think we'll see the beginning of the problem in January, and then see it in spades next year.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%)

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



299 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; NEW DVDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: When Titans Roamed The Backlot At Fox

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
The sequel to 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment's enormously impressive ''Ford at Fox'' collection, released last year, ''Murnau, Borzage and Fox'' brings together a rich selection of films by two of the most important filmmakers in the history of the medium, the German director F. W. Murnau and the American Frank Borzage. The paths of these two extraordinary figures crossed briefly during a period, 1927 to 1930, when both were under contract to William Fox, by far the most artistically adventurous of the early film moguls. 
 Fox lost control of his studio in 1930 because of financial problems related to the stock market crash, but by that point had firmly established the Fox Film Corporation as the Hollywood enterprise most friendly to personal filmmakers. That tradition continued for several decades after the company merged with Joseph Schenck's Twentieth Century Pictures in 1935, forming the corporation we know today as 20th Century Fox. 
 It's great to see Fox embracing its studio heritage with such scholarly dedication and serious financial commitment. Only Warner Brothers has done anything comparable, and Fox has perhaps gone a bit further in releasing these sets, comprehensive anthologies devoted not to genres or to stars but to major authors in the field of motion pictures. 
 F. W. Murnau was perhaps the most critically respected filmmaker in the world when Fox offered him a contract to come to America in 1925. His movie ''The Last Laugh'' -- recently released in a superlative edition by Kino International -- had been snatched up by Carl Laemmle, founder of Universal Pictures, for American release even before its German premiere.
 In an excellent booklet that is part of the new Fox box, Janet Bergstrom writes that Fox signed Murnau the day before ''The Last Laugh'' had its New York premiere, because he ''did not want to be outdone by his rival Laemmle.'' 
 Fox offered his new employee virtual carte blanche, and the film that resulted in 1927, ''Sunrise,'' has been part of the history books since. It's a self-consciously mythic ''Song of Two Humans,'' as its subtitle phrases it, the story of a farmer (George O'Brien) and his wife (Janet Gaynor) who are almost driven apart by a predatory character the film calls only Woman From the City (Margaret Livingston). 
 There is hardly a shot or camera movement in ''Sunrise'' that does not seem precisely considered, wholly original and achingly expressive, as Murnau moves from a realistic farming village constructed on the shore of Lake Arrowhead, outside of Los Angeles, to an expressionistic rendition of a bustling city, constructed almost entirely within the Fox studio.
 The work's style was so forceful that none of Fox's other major filmmakers seemed to escape its influence, most conspicuously John Ford, whose manner would draw equally from Murnau's poetic stylization and the down-to-earth naturalism of D. W. Griffith, his first artistic model. 
 But Murnau seems also to have deeply affected Frank Borzage (pronounced bore-ZAY-ghee), already an established director with a series of social dramas and romances under his belt. Although, as Ms. Bergstrom notes, Borzage seems never to have spoken of Murnau, his visual approach is evident throughout ''7th Heaven,'' the 1927 feature that was Gaynor's next starring vehicle for the studio. 
 Working with the great art director Harry Oliver, Borzage constructed a stylized studio Paris for his young lovers: a street waif played by Gaynor, and an ambitious sewer worker played by Borzage's young discovery Charles Farrell, a tall, clear-eyed Massachusetts boy here cast in his first major role. 
 Borzage's eternal theme -- that romantic love transcends all physical circumstance, with a force like that of religion -- is developed in ''7th Heaven'' through elaborate camera movements that would probably not have been conceivable without Murnau's example. The visual centerpiece of the film is a shot that follows the lovers from the ground floor of a Parisian tenement, rising with them as they climb what appear to be six flights of stairs (actually three, blended by a hidden dissolve) to arrive at the attic aerie that is their ''seventh heaven,'' a private world that belongs to them alone. 
 ''Sunrise'' was a succes d'estime, but ''7th Heaven'' was a major popular hit, thanks no doubt to Borzage's almost magical ability to spin an aura of warmth and spiritual exaltation around his lovers. He directed Gaynor and Farrell in two more excellent films, ''Street Angel'' (1928) and ''Lucky Star'' (1929), both included here, and Farrell with other partners in three more movies included in this box: the intensely erotic melodrama ''The River'' (1928), which exists only in incomplete form; a daringly theatrical adaptation of Ferenc Molnar's fantasy ''Liliom'' (1930), for which Oliver created sets even more audaciously expressionist than Murnau's for ''Sunrise''; and, settling back to earth, the Lower East Side love story ''After Tomorrow'' (1932). 
 ''Murnau, Borzage and Fox'' also functions as a miniature history of the transition from silent films to sound. The free-floating camera and dramatic fluidity of the silents seem to screech to a halt with Borzage's first all-talking picture, the 1929 Will Rogers vehicle ''They Had to See Paris.'' He recovers a bit of his camera mobility with the interesting 1930 ''Song o' My Heart,'' a musical starring the hugely popular Irish tenor John McCormack, in which Borzage experiments for the first time with sound to create a bridge between lovers separated by space. But sound also constrains Borzage's gossamer romanticism, and his films take on the straightforward, slightly embittered social realism that was beginning to dominate over at Warner Brothers.
 ''Young America'' (1932) is a Warner-style issues film asking for sympathy for juvenile delinquents. (It's mainly interesting, though, as Borzage's first film with Spencer Tracy, who would become his rumpled alter ego in the talkies.) 
 Most effective, perhaps, is the 1931 ''Bad Girl,'' for which Borzage won his second best-director Oscar (after ''7th Heaven''). Like so many films of the Great Depression, it is deeply engaged with the social reality of the day, drawing the portrait of a young working-class couple (James Dunn and Sally Eilers) who are nearly driven apart by economic pressures. The radiant, soft-focus close-ups of ''Street Angel'' give way here to a hard-edged, almost documentary realism, but Borzage's ability to evoke lyrically the bonds between open-hearted humans remains undiminished. 
 Of the 12 features in the set, only ''Sunrise'' has been previously released in the United States, and it has here been given a fine new transfer with much improved sound, the better to show off its pioneering music and effects track. Most everything here looks extremely good, and one particular standout is Murnau's rarely seen follow-up to ''Sunrise,'' the rural drama ''City Girl'' (1930), with Farrell and Mary Duncan. 
 Long available only in soft 16-millimeter prints, ''City Girl'' here possesses a contrast and detail that suggest a pristine 35-millimeter source, and perhaps the dramatically improved image quality will contribute to the rehabilitation of what has long been Murnau's most underrated film. 
 Altogether, ''Murnau, Borzage and Fox'' represents the best that home video has to offer in quality, scholarship and enduring aesthetic interest; this is not a set that anyone will exhaust soon. (20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, $239.98, not rated)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from F. W. Murnau's ''Sunrise,'' with Janet Gaynor and George O'Brien, right. (The man at left is not identified.)(PHOTOGRAPH BY 20TH CENTURY FOX HOME ENTERTAINMENT)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (70%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (54%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP (83%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



300 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Suing to Raise a Payment of Last Resort

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
New York State has not raised its basic payment for people on welfare since 1989, forcing many recipients to skip meals, wear hand-me-downs and spend many days confined to their homes because they lack the $4 needed for a subway trip, according to a lawsuit filed on Monday. 
 Lawyers representing a group of welfare recipients filed the class-action lawsuit, accusing the state of violating a Depression-era constitutional provision that requires it to provide adequate financial assistance for its neediest residents. 
 Known as the basic welfare grant, the payment is a benefit of last resort for poor people who do not receive other assistance, like unemployment or disability insurance or workers' compensation. In New York, it is available to families and single adults, and it is meant to cover the cost of essential expenses like clothing, toiletries and transportation. 
 Although the state has one of the most generous welfare policies in the country, allowing certain recipients to opt out of work requirements and providing benefits indefinitely, many people are still struggling, the lawsuit says. They cannot afford a telephone or a trip to the library to use a computer, according to the suit, so they have a hard time getting work because employers cannot easily contact them. 
 ''You know how they say you have the working class, the middle class and the rich? I'm below all that,'' said a plaintiff, Warren Taylor, 50, who worked as a pressman for 25 years but lost his job in 2003 after injuring his thumb; he has not been able to find steady work since. 
 ''I've just had to learn to do without,'' Mr. Taylor said.
 The lawsuit names six other plaintiffs, and all of them had long work histories but turned to welfare after losing their jobs because their company went out of business or the workers were injured or they had no money to pay for a license necessary to perform their trade.
 As the nation braves its worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, welfare rolls, long in decline, have begun to creep up in parts of the state, including Orange and Nassau Counties, according to statistics from the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. On Nov. 18 in Utica, a fight erupted outside the Department of Social Services over who was first in line as a large crowd waited for the welfare offices to open. 
 ''We can no longer say, 'Let's wait until next year.' That's exactly what we've been doing for almost two decades,'' said Douglas Lasdon, the executive director of the Urban Justice Center, which filed the suit in State Supreme Court in Manhattan with the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. 
 Still, an increase in the welfare benefit is likely to meet resistance from those who say that such a move would send the wrong message, especially given the state's already expansive benefits. In New York, once federal welfare benefits run out, families and individuals can continue to receive payments; the state and New York City or the county where the recipient lives split the costs. (California has a similar provision.)
 ''It's an ongoing dependency that has escaped the federal rules,'' said Lawrence M. Mead, a professor of politics at New York University, whose books and ideas inspired some of the elements of welfare reform. ''And to me, it is unreasonable to raise benefit levels if you don't require a whole group of people on welfare to go to work.''
 The basic welfare grant amounts to $137 a month for an individual. A family of three receives $291. Together with a maximum of $400 in housing aid, the assistance puts the family at less than 75 percent of the federal poverty level, according to an analysis by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington. (Recipients also qualify for food stamps and receive health care through Medicaid.) 
 The lawsuit does not call for a specific increase, asking instead that the court force the state to determine what a reasonable amount would be.
 ''The state fiscal situation has worsened considerably, and the governor has made clear that we have to balance the state budget,'' David A. Hansell, the commissioner of the Office of Temporary Disability and Assistance, which administers the benefit, said in an interview last month. ''But he's also made clear that he won't do it in a way that jeopardizes those who are in need.''
 Errol Cockfield, a spokesman for Gov. David A. Paterson, declined on Monday afternoon to comment on the lawsuit, saying that Mr. Paterson's office had just received the papers and was still reviewing them.
 The welfare system, founded during the Depression, long provided fairly uniform benefits to the nation's poor regardless of personal circumstances and with no time limits. But as welfare rolls grew, critics balked, saying that the system had created an underclass of people who lived off government money with no obligation to do anything in return.
 A bill overhauling welfare aimed to change that. Signed by President Bill Clinton in 1996, it required most recipients to work and limited the federal assistance to a maximum of 60 months. But the change also gave states flexibility to design their own programs. 
 Last year, the Assembly's Social Services Committee held hearings on the adequacy of the basic grant and concluded that cost-of-living increases had ''reduced the real value of the welfare grant, making it nearly impossible for families to meet even their most basic needs,'' according to its report.
 The Assembly then suggested raising the grant by 10 percent a year over three years, at an annual cost of $76 million to the state, said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, the committee's chairman. But the proposal did not advance in the Senate, and Mr. Paterson did not incorporate it into his budget.
 ''It's an absolute abomination that this grant hasn't been raised in so many years,'' said Assemblyman Wright, of Harlem. ''That these folks on public assistance are able to live at all on less than $200 or $300 a month is a true testament to their survival skills.'' 
 One of the plaintiffs, William Quinones, 54, who had worked as a security guard for 15 years until asthma attacks forced him to leave his job, said he draws his sustenance from Frosted Flakes, canned ravioli and cold sandwiches. Anibal Diaz, 52, who has schizophrenia, eats pizza, waffles and frozen dinners. Mr. Taylor, the former pressman, buys frozen chicken drumsticks and rice and tries to stretch them as far as he can. He also visits a food pantry near the South Bronx housing project where he lives.
 The men said their food stamps and welfare money run out halfway through the month.
 Mr. Taylor and Mr. Quinones do odd jobs to comply with the requirements of the welfare program. Both also applied to take courses through a state program for people with disabilities; Mr. Quinones wants to train as a paralegal, and Mr. Taylor wants to learn the new technologies of the printing business.
 ''I'm looking at the classifieds for a position as a pressman, but there's nothing there,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''Everything is computers these days, and I'm kind of illiterate when it comes to that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Warren Taylor, 50, a plaintiff in the suit, in his Bronx home. Mr. Taylor lost his pressman's job in 2003 and has not been able to find steady work. ''I've just had to learn to do without,'' he said.
 Anibal Diaz, 52, also a plaintiff in the suit, which says the state has failed to give adequate assistance to its neediest residents.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); RESORTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); DISMISSALS (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



301 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: In New Era, Timber's Struggles Stir Broad Concern and Support

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: SEELEY LAKE, Mont. 

 BODY:
A scramble is under way here in Montana to save the historically important, culturally resonant timber industry -- once a pillar of the state's identity, now under siege as demand for housing and wood products has plummeted in the national economic downturn.
 But what makes this debate different from those about saving automobile makers or banks and whoever else is in line for a bailout are the multiple layers of connection to things that might seem to have nothing to do with two-by-fours, plywood or even jobs.
 Climate change, for example -- how to manage state and federal forest lands as new diseases and insects threaten them in a warmer future -- and the soaring costs of fighting wildfires in the West have both become part of the discussion. If the state loses its base of roughly 200 interconnected sawmills, pulp buyers and family-owned tree-cutting contractors, advocates say, who will be left to work in the woods to make them usable, beautiful and safe, and at what cost?
 ''Our fear is that we could lose our infrastructure -- the base of knowledge and experience of working in the forest,'' said Mary Sexton, the director of the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation. ''Once it's gone, it's gone.'' 
 Ms. Sexton is part of a team of state officials, business leaders and environmentalists combing through lists of ideas to reduce costs to sawmills or help them find new sources of revenue to raise their chances of getting by and getting through. Elected officials in Washington are concentrating on speaking up for timber in the next stimulus package that the incoming administration of President-elect Barack Obama is putting together.
 For logging and sawmill operators, the coalition has inspired hope. The difference is stark, they say, between the environment they face today, however bleak, and the erosion of their industry in recent years. In the early 1980s, by contrast, when a bad recession wiped out much of the industry, the timber wars were still in high and florid passion, and many environmentalists were more likely to dance on a lumber company's grave than work to save it. Almost 20 percent of the state's lumber-mill jobs have disappeared since 2005, according to state figures. 
 ''The difference today is that we have built a lot of long-term relationships, partners in the conservation community who make things happen on the ground,'' said Gordy Sanders, resource manager at Pyramid Mountain Lumber, a family-owned sawmill in this small town northeast of Missoula. ''In the early '80s that wasn't there.''
 Groups like the Wilderness Society, which is working on contracts to expand lower-cost wood supplies to mills like Pyramid, say that working forests with controlled harvests of trees are healthier, safer and more likely to be preserved, and that small towns like Seeley Lake with an anchoring employer are less prone to real estate speculation and development.
 But the organization's regional director, Robert Ekey, conceded that such a strategy was easier now because the industry is only a shadow of its former might. Mr. Ekey said, the lumber industry is no longer a threat to the landscape; it is a necessity. Montana is the nation's fourth-largest state, with about 26,000 square miles of national forest.
 ''Timber cutting is one-seventh what it was on Forest Service lands 20 or 25 years ago at its height,'' Mr. Ekey said. ''Then, the environmental movement rightly had to be about, 'no,' and how to stop it.'' Now, he added: ''We're at the level where we can really have a good rational discussion -- what does success look like? What does successful forest management look like?'' 
 The years of experience as the industry faded around much of the West -- mainly as a result of reduced timber sales in the national forests -- has also given people here in Montana a glimpse of what can happen when an industry does go away. In Arizona, Colorado and New Mexico, for example, once-formidable forest industries have all but disappeared over the last decade, leading to higher costs for forest management and fire protection; a recent study at the University of Montana said that forest costs to taxpayers and landowners could quadruple in Montana in coming years if the industry is lost. 
 But the economic downswing is revealing how interconnected everything is, and how the smallest and most innocuous of things can loom large in a crisis.
 Think wood chips.
 Wood chips, the humble left over bark-and-end-piece crumbs of the logging business, have emerged this fall as an Achilles' heel in Montana.
 The chain of logic looks like this: Sawmills make beams and boards and logs for housing and are struggling with an inventory that mostly cannot be sold because of the record decline in housing starts. So they have been making ends meet by selling the pieces of bark and scrap to a mill near Missoula owned by Smurfit-Stone, which makes chips into packaging material -- a corner of the consumer economy that until this fall was not suffering.
 But in just the last two months, consumers have retrenched and are buying fewer items that come in boxes made by the Smurfit-Stone mill, which has suddenly needed to buy fewer truckloads of chips from the sawmills. That has forced chip buyers and sellers into a scramble of prices, which have fallen by 15 percent since mid-September.
 ''They're doing everything they can to reduce payment for chips, which compounds the problems for the sawmills,'' said Hakan Ekstrom, the president of Wood Resources International, a company in Bothell, Wash., that tracks wood commodity prices.
 At Pyramid Mountain, managers told the company's 135 employees (25 of whom were laid off in early November) that the operation would close Thanksgiving week because the pulp mill was not buying chips. A last-minute sale to another mill, at a sharply reduced price, kept Pyramid running for the week, said the company's president, Roger Johnson, whose father, Fred, helped found the mill in 1949.
 But the crisis of timber is also a window, many people involved in the discussions say, into what things might look like in the future.
 Some people see a greater role in electricity production for mill operators, if federal incentives toward renewable energy make things like biomass or cogeneration -- using wood fiber to generate both electricity and heat -- more attractive or viable. Others see a reduced industry that finally gives up competing with more efficient mass market loggers in Canada and Asia and turns toward niche products with higher profit margins.
 In any case, many people say, the old arrogance that once typified timber's political swagger in Montana will be gone forever.
 ''Things will be more collaborative,'' said Roy Houseman Jr., the president of the United Steelworkers local that represents workers at the Smurfit-Stone mill. ''That will mean more amicable relations between industry and environmentalists,'' said Mr. Houseman, who was laid off in early November with 51 other workers at the plant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Declines in housing and consumer sales have hurt demand for lumber and wood chips, forcing layoffs at Pyramid Mountain Lumber in Seeley Lake, Mont.
 A bond with politicians, conservationists and businesses gives the industry greater hope than in past downturns. ''In the early '80s that wasn't there,'' said Gordy Sanders of Pyramid, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANIE OSBORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); SAW MILLS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (87%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); EROSION (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PULP INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); WILDERNESS (69%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (68%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); AUTOMAKERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



302 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

BYLINE: By ROB COX and ALIZA ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
Why Not Bring 
 Cash Back Home?
 The American economy needs stimulation. Corporate America is struggling to find financing. 
 Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve, Congress and two presidential administrations (one incoming, one departing) are trying a variety of measures to solve both problems. 
 But one idea -- giving companies incentives to repatriate cash held by foreign subsidiaries -- hasn't been widely discussed. It belongs on the table. 
 On its own, an international tax amnesty won't resolve the credit crisis or repair the economy. But given the limited effectiveness of some of the more expensive government programs, it's hard to see how it would hurt. 
 The basic idea would be for Congress to legislate a window through which American companies could bring home dollars held abroad without paying corporate taxes of some 35 percent.
 This would provide a fillip of liquidity to businesses, especially as even some of the most stable and solvent companies have been forced to pay huge premiums to obtain financing. Combined with the tax savings an amnesty would generate, companies would have greater resources to invest in research, development, capital spending and jobs.
 If the idea sounds familiar, that's because a similar concept was tried in 2004 as part of the American Jobs Creation Act. Under the law, corporations paid only about 5 percent on the money they repatriated. In return, they were encouraged to use the retained foreign earnings as a source of financing for investment and job creation at home. 
 In 2004, 840 companies took advantage of the amnesty, hauling about $362 billion of cash back to the United States. But there's still a lot of money held overseas. 
 The companies that comprise the S.& P. 500-stock index reported record earnings in the years that followed the amnesty. Some, like the consumer giant Procter & Gamble, earn over half of their revenue overseas. That means much of their global profits from the last few years may still reside abroad.
 It's not clear just how much cash is sitting in overseas bank vaults. But as an example, Moody's estimates that 75 percent of the pharmaceutical industry's cash balances are overseas. For just the nine largest American drug companies, that's some $80 billion. 
 Technology companies would also be big beneficiaries. About $8 billion of Microsoft's total cash pile is outside of the United States. More than 90 percent of Cisco's $27 billion of cash and investments are offshore, according to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 So what's the snag? For one, even though Congress can try to insist that the money be used to invest and create jobs, that's nearly impossible to enforce.
 The 2004 act prohibited the use of repatriated money for executive compensation or for distributions to shareholders. While participating companies had to file domestic reinvestment plans, they weren't required to show that repatriated money was used specifically for its intended purposes. 
 Many of the companies taking advantage of the amnesty also started big share buybacks around the same time.
 There's also the message another tax break would send. If companies believe that American authorities will grant them similar forbearance every few years, they wouldn't bring money back home during good times. That would not just deprive the government of tax revenues, it would distort corporate behavior.
 Still, finding a fair and efficient way to repatriate cash during a crisis could foster an economic recovery at relatively low cost to American taxpayers. One compromise might be to offer companies an amnesty if they agree to maintain certain employment levels for a set period of time. 
 Those that don't abide by their promises would face a retroactive tax punishment, which could be applied incrementally depending on the extent of job cuts. At worst, a company might repatriate all of its cash but still pay the normal tax rate. That's not a terrible outcome for the government's coffers. 
 And there may be other creative ways to have American companies put their foreign cash stockpiles to work at home. During economically troubled times, all options for stimulating the economy should be considered.
 ROB COX and ALIZA ROSENBAUM 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pfizer's plant in Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium, develops veterinary vaccines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PFIZER ANIMAL HEALTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); AMNESTY (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); SECURITIES LAW (63%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BELGIUM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



303 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (BBC America) MY FAMILY The seventh season of this popular British sitcom begins with the 2006 Christmas episode. Ben (Robert Lindsay, left), the dispirited West London dentist, tries to get out of holiday obligations by pretending to be sick. But his wiseacre wife, Susan (Zoe Wanamaker), insists that he go to the doctor, who decides to run tests. Ben's private hospital room isn't too shabby, but he can't say the same for the crowded ward where he's sent when it's discovered that his health insurance has expired. 
 1 A.M. (13) DOC Harold L. Humes, right, known as Doc, went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at 16; founded The Paris Review with George Plimpton and Peter Matthiessen; wrote the political novels ''The Underground City'' and ''Men Die''; helped create the New American Cinema Group; championed the use of medical marijuana; designed a paper house that was both fireproof and waterproof; managed Norman Mailer's 1961 run for mayor of New York; and, after becoming mentally ill in the 1960s, reappeared as a hippie philosopher and paranoid, who insisted that the government was keeping tabs on him. Turns out it was. The filmmaker Immy Humes tells the story of her father. 
 8 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE A troubled teenager (B. K. Cannon) collapses during her high school Christmas program. Meanwhile, House (Hugh Laurie) arouses suspicion when he gives -- and, more surprisingly, receives -- holiday gifts. And House and Wilson (Robert Sean Leonard) have a seasonal bet.
 8 P.M. (IFC) THE IFC MEDIA PROJECT ''Unreliable Sources,'' Part 4 of this six-episode series, examines news coverage of the economic crisis and claims that New York's three major daily newspapers failed to cover critically the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. Gideon Yago hosts.
 8 P.M. (MyNetworkTV) OLIVE, THE OTHER REINDEER In this musical holiday cartoon created by a team led by Matt Groening, the little doe Olive heads to the North Pole to save Christmas.
 9 P.M. (Food Network) DEAR FOOD NETWORK Giada De Laurentiis, Michael Symon, Tyler Florence and Danny Boomeall share their favorite holiday memories, traditions and recipes.
 10 P.M. (A&E) MANHUNTERS: FUGITIVE TASK FORCE This new series follows members of the New York and New Jersey division of the United States Marshals Fugitive Task Force as they sniff out the bad guys in the dark places of New York City. In the premiere Supervisor Tommy Kilbride, above left, goes after a repeat offender in Brooklyn but learns that the suspect is in Los Angeles.
 10 P.M. (Bio) SHATNER'S RAW NERVEWilliam Shatner gets uncomfortably close to Jenna Jameson and, at 10:30, Jimmy Kimmel.
 10 P.M. (Discovery) STURGIS: MOTORCYCLE MANIA The channel ventures to South Dakota for the annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally, where some 450,000 bike enthusiasts congregate for a wild ride.
 10 P.M. (Logo) RICK & STEVE: THE HAPPIEST GAY COUPLE IN ALL THE WORLD The guys discover the secret history of the gay ghetto in West Lahunga Beach.
 10 P.M. (MTV) A DOUBLE SHOT AT LOVE Tila Tequila has left the building and not a moment too soon. In her place for this Season 3 premiere: the Ikki Twins, as in Rikki and Vikki, a pair of identical, bisexual sisters. And no, they don't share.
 10 P.M. (National Geographic) GUNS IN AMERICA ''Explorer'' delves into the lives of five people connected by their weapons.
 10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT When a woman (Kelly Hu) is found wandering in Riverside Park with no memory of being beaten and raped, the evidence points to a mystery man (Michael Trucco) whose computer holds amateur pornography videos starring this woman and others. But when Detectives Benson (Mariska Hargitay) and Stabler (Christopher Meloni) try to track the victims, they discover that the women have no memory of being attacked. 
 10 P.M. (TNT) LEVERAGE Nate Ford (Timothy Hutton), the insurance investigator turned high-tech Robin Hood, and his gang of hackers and grifters go after a military contractor who is hiding the truth about an incident in Iraq.
 11 P.M. (TBS) FRANK TV Frank Caliendo mimics Pat O'Brien interviewing stars from the '80s; a jealous William Shatner; and a trio of big talkers -- Robert De Niro, Al Pacino and James Gandolfini -- speaking on behalf of New Jersey tourism. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); DENTAL INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); HERBAL MEDICINE (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); FILM (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); MAYORS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

PERSON: HUGH LAURIE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



304 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Next Year Is Looking Even Worse

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The bankruptcy filing on Monday by the Tribune Company underscored that the brunt of the injuries being suffered by the media during the recession are in local markets -- especially newspapers. 
 Already, advertising is bracing for the possibility of the first two consecutive yearly declines in spending since the early days of the Great Depression. The effects of the financial crisis, which exacerbated the woes that have befallen advertisers since the recession began last December, are certainly being felt broadly among television, magazines, cable and other media. But newspapers in particular are being hit hard by the slump.
 Many executives who spoke at an annual media conference in Midtown Manhattan, sponsored by UBS, released forecasts that predicted across-the-board declines in ad spending in 2009.
 Another sign of how lackluster the results have been for newspapers is that UBS canceled a presentation on newspaper ad spending for Monday, the first morning of the conference. Such presentations had long been a mainstay of the event, formally called the Global Media and Communications Conference; this year's, which continues through Wednesday, is the 36th annual conference. 
 For the United States, ZenithOptimedia is forecasting a decline in ad spending this year of 3.8 percent compared with 2007 and a decline of 6.2 percent in 2009 compared with 2008.
 One reason for the larger decline next year is a slowdown in demand for ad space in newspapers, compared with relatively ''robust'' demand for commercial time on television, said Steve King, chief executive at ZenithOptimedia, a unit of the Publicis Groupe.
 ''We're in turbulent and challenging times,'' he said, resulting in ''a sharp downturn in advertising spending.''
 Mr. King did offer a ray of hope to the ad and media industries. ''It's not as though everyone has turned off the tap,'' he said. ''People are still trying to sell goods and services.''
 However, a UBS analyst who spoke at the conference, Matthieu Coppet, revised downward his estimates for ad spending. He previously forecast a decline in the United States next year of 5.9 percent compared with 2008; he changed that to a decline of 8.7 percent, primarily because local advertising could fall by a ''double-digit level.''
 Mr. Coppet is predicting that local ad spending in newspapers in 2008 could fall 9 percent from 2007 and in 2009 it could fall 21 percent from 2008.
 For newspapers in general -- local and national ads, in America and other regions around the world -- the declines Mr. Coppet is forecasting are, he wrote in a report, ''the worst in the history'' of the medium.
 Martin Sorrell, the chief executive at WPP, said he believed that an economic recovery would not take hold until 2010.
 Although there is likely to be ''more pressure in the first half than the second half'' of 2009, Mr. Sorrell said, forecasts of a comeback in the second half are ''optimistic.''
 ''The real world won't change for the better till 2010,'' he added, ''when greed has overcome fear yet again.''
 Ad spending in the United States this year is being ''really pulled down by extreme softness in spending at the local level,'' according to another speaker at the conference, Robert J. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Magna in New York, a media services unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 He is predicting a 16 percent decline in ad spending for local newspapers in 2008 compared with 2007. By comparison, Mr. Coen is expecting local television ad spending in 2008 to fall 9 percent from 2007; local radio, 8 percent; local yellow pages, 3 percent; and other local media, 0.5 percent.
 And it will be almost as bad for local newspapers come next year, Mr. Coen predicted, with ad spending declining 12 percent compared with 2008.
 The figures for other local media in 2009 are not as bad: local TV, down 7 percent; local radio, down 6 percent; local yellow pages, down 5 percent; and other local media, down 3.7 percent.
 Spending in newspapers this year by national advertisers is also falling. Mr. Coen is forecasting a decline of 10 percent compared with 2007. That would tie newspapers with radio for the worst showing for national advertising in 2008. 
 The Coen forecast for national ad spending next year in newspapers echoes the local outlook. He is projecting a 10 percent decline compared with 2008, second only to national spot TV, with a decline of 11 percent. 
 If Mr. Coen's predictions come to pass, they would stir memories -- or nightmares -- on Madison Avenue of the 1930s. Mr. Coen, who has been tracking ad trends for decades, revised his forecast for total ad spending in the United States in 2008 to a decline of 3.2 percent from 2007. At different times in the last year and a half, he had forecast gains for 2008 of 2 percent, 3.7 percent and 5 percent.
 Coupled with Mr. Coen's final figures for American ad spending in 2007, which showed a decline of 0.7 percent from 2006, two consecutives down years in 2007 and 2008 would be the first since 1932 and 1933.
 Mr. Coen is also forecasting a decline for 2009, of 4.5 percent from 2008. That also represents a downward revision; he predicted in July that ad spending next year would rise 3.1 percent from this year.
 If there are indeed three consecutive years of declines -- 2007, 2008, 2009 -- it would be the first time that has happened since 1931-33.
 (For the record, there were four consecutive down years at the start of the Depression, according to Mr. Coen's records; ad spending in 1930 fell compared with 1929.)
 Among the reports issued by companies not presenting at the conference were forecasts from the Carat media agency, part of the Aegis Group. Carat predicted that ad spending in the United States this year would rise 1.7 percent from 2007 but fall in 2009 by 6.5 percent from 2008.
 Spending for ads in newspapers next year will decline ''by another 10 to 15 percent'' from 2008, the Carat report said, as categories like real estate, retail and classified ''all may see their newspaper spending drop by double digits.''
 Speakers at the UBS conference reiterated that ad spending will be slow to return.
 Adam Smith, futures director at GroupM, a media division of WPP, predicted an increase in American ad spending this year compared with last, albeit just 0.3 percent.
 But Mr. Smith agreed that 2009 would be weaker than 2008; he is predicting a 3.2 percent decline.
 For worldwide ad spending next year, Mr. Smith said, newspapers will suffer the largest decline of any medium, down 3.6 percent from 2008.
 As a result, Mr. Smith forecast a ''cultural shift'' in the newspaper industry, as local and regional papers adjust from 30 percent profit margins to 10 percent margins -- ''forever.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (58%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (55%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



305 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Prominent Lawyer Is Accused in $100 Million Hedge Fund Fraud

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM and ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Jason Grant and Charles V. Bagli contributed reporting.

 BODY:
His legal lineage was impeccable. A Yale man with a law degree from Harvard, he was a litigation powerhouse, a leader at some of the more prominent firms at the New York bar who then started a top-shelf practice of his own.
 But when the lawyer, Marc S. Dreier, stepped off a flight from Canada on Sunday night, federal authorities in New York arrested him in a $100 million fraud scheme, portraying his recent undertakings as more high-stakes grifting than high-end lawyering.
 In brazen and carefully choreographed scams here and in Canada, Mr. Dreier, who in 1996 founded a 250-lawyer firm that bears his name, is said to have tried to take advantage of the current financial crisis by selling phony debt to hungry hedge funds looking for deals.
 But in an era when high-tech frauds and inside information seem to dominate the world of white-collar crime, the square-jawed lawyer, known for his forceful personality and his penchant for high living, apparently did it the old-fashioned way. 
 Using little more than his position, poise and a kind of reckless bravado, he cajoled his way into accounting, real estate and pension fund offices where he had no real business, according to a criminal complaint unsealed on Monday.
 Once there, seated in conference rooms that lent credibility to his charade, he peddled forged promissory notes -- utterly worthless paper -- linked in some way to his unwitting hosts, the complaint said. He backed up his claims with phony financial statements and bogus audit opinions from a reputable accounting firm, correspondence on the stationery of the New York real estate developer who supposedly issued the debt, and the help of a few confederates, the government said in court papers. 
 With these tools and little more, he allegedly took hedge fund executives for $100 million in one instance alone, money that the authorities say remains unaccounted for.
 Mr. Dreier, 58, is charged with stealing $113 million since October, according to the complaint, although the case is continuing and a spokesman for the acting United States attorney in Manhattan, Lev. L. Dassin, whose office investigated the matter, would not say whether other alleged frauds are under scrutiny. 
 Indeed, Mr. Dreier was working on getting an additional $33 million last Tuesday, according to the complaint, when that scheme unraveled in a bizarre tableau played out in the offices of a Toronto pension fund, court records and officials said.
 He was arrested in Canada and held by local authorities for several days on relatively minor charges. But the disclosure of that arrest eventually sent the law firm, Dreier L.L.P., reeling, and as details of the strange doings there began dribbling out, it became apparent he was also under investigation by federal authorities in Manhattan.
 Suddenly, the law firm could not make its payroll, people there said; the Christmas party at the Waldorf-Astoria was canceled; the firm lacked the ability to pay the rent at its Park Avenue offices (once occupied by Bloomberg L.P.); lawyers started packing up; and what had once been a lucrative law practice -- a conglomeration of several separate firms -- began to collapse. 
 On Monday afternoon, a United States magistrate judge, Douglas F. Eaton, ordered Mr. Dreier detained until a bail hearing on Thursday. However, because the Securities and Exchange Commission has sought to freeze his assets and those of Dreier L.L.P. in a parallel civil action, it is unclear how he might post bond.
 Mr. Dreier's efforts to enrich himself apparently did not end with his arrest, according to authorities. In a hearing on the S.E.C. action, which immediately followed the arraignment, a lawyer for the commission told Judge Miriam G. Cedarbaum of Federal District Court that Mr. Dreier ''did attempt and may have transferred assets'' while he was jailed in Canada last week. But the lawyer, Nancy Brown, would not elaborate.
 Raymond J. Lohier and Jonathan R. Streeter, the assistant United States attorneys who are prosecuting the criminal case, and Mr. Dreier's lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, said little during the arraignment that preceded Judge Cedarbaum's hearing. 
 Afterward, Mr. Shargel noted, ''This is a very complicated matter -- the facts are beyond reach of a sound bite.'' 
 Outside the courtroom, when reporters asked whether Mark F. Pomerantz, the receiver expected to be appointed to oversee Dreier L.L.P.'s finances, would also run the law firm, Mr. Shargel alluded to the swift departure of some members of the firm.
 ''The lawyers have apparently manned the lifeboats,'' he said. ''Given the reaction of the partners, I don't think there is any law firm to run,'' he said.
 Questions in the case abound. Why -- and perhaps more important, when -- did Mr. Dreier begin the multimillion-dollar con game detailed in the criminal complaint? How did sophisticated investors, and his highly educated colleagues, get duped? 
 ''Look, it's a tragic story,'' said a lawyer who worked with Mr. Dreier years ago, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the inquiry focused on the firm.
 ''I don't know what happened to him,'' added the lawyer. ''I don't know if he was always this way or not but it's just an amazing story.'' 
 Mr. Dreier's resume included high-level stints at Rosenman & Colin and at Fulbright & Jaworski, where he was head of the litigation department. His credentials and his no-nonsense demeanor helped him attract talent to his legal firm. 
 He has a triplex apartment on the East Side of Manhattan, along with a house near the beach in Southampton, N.Y., and a 120-foot yacht. The walls of his Park Avenue office drip with expensive modern art, and he kept three personal assistants busy.
 The criminal complaint, sworn out by James J. Otten, an investigator with the U.S. attorney's office, tells a remarkable story of hubris. 
 The seven-page document, which was filed under seal on Thursday and made public on Monday, details three schemes and charges Mr. Dreier with one count each of wire fraud and securities fraud.
 In one scheme, it says, Mr. Dreier sought to sell a total of $146 million worth of bogus promissory notes that he created using the name of a real estate firm, unnamed in the complaint. He convinced a receptionist at the Manhattan offices of the firm (which people involved in the matter said was Solow Realty, a firm that had in the past retained Mr. Dreier) that the firm's chief executive had authorized him and three other people to use a conference room for a meeting with the executive. 
 In fact, the chief executive had not scheduled such a meeting. But he later saw Mr. Dreier conducting a meeting in Solow's conference room, where he was negotiating to sell the notes.
 At some point in the investigation, according to the complaint, a cooperating witness secretly recorded Mr. Dreier admitting that he had ''participated in the fabrication'' of certain financial statements that he was to give to a hedge fund. On the tapes, the government contends, Mr. Dreier ''further stated that he was 'ashamed' of his role in fabricating the documents and that it was ''very serious what's happened here.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marc Dreier, after his release from a Toronto jail last Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TARA WALTON/TORONTO STAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); DEBT NOTES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); AUDITS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); CHRISTMAS (60%)

COMPANY: DREIER LLP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (60%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



306 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Baseball Executives Face The Odds

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
The mission for every general manager at the baseball winter meetings here is to help build a team into a World Series champion. Some teams have a legitimate chance. Some have almost no chance. If the executives want to know how their chances of winning a title are perceived by some sports experts, they have congregated in the right place.
 Past the famous fountains outside the Bellagio and across the hotel's marble floors is a casino that houses the race and sports book. In this pulsating 5,600-square-foot room with leather chairs and enough flat-screen televisions to satisfy a small town, the odds for winning the 2009 World Series flash in multiple colors on a huge board. 
 While 30 major league teams will pursue free agents and consider trade possibilities inside the Bellagio over the next four days, some simple numbers will inform them of just how close they may be to winning it all. Those numbers, which range from 5 to 1 to 150 to 1, are continuously monitored and, depending on what kind of transactions unfold, may immediately change.
 ''Perception is reality in our world because people bet what they think is going to happen,'' said Jay Rood, who is the race and sports book director for MGM Mirage, which operates the Bellagio's and nine other casinos' sports books here. ''That's what we're dealing with: opinions. It's what your opinion is. We have to temper that with what we think is going to happen as well.''
 So far, some oddsmakers say the Chicago Cubs and the Boston Red Sox will be busy in October. Almost four months before the season opener, they are the favorites to appear in the World Series, each at 5-to-1 odds. Philadelphia, the defending champion, is at 10 to 1, while the Tampa Bay Rays, the team the Phillies tamed in five games, are at 8 to 1. The Pittsburgh Pirates are the longest of long shots at 150 to 1. Those were the same odds the Rays had before the 2008 season.
 As Pete Rose famously forgot, betting is strictly forbidden in baseball. Still, with this opulent casino and hotel as a backdrop to the winter meetings, it is impossible to avoid the awkward connection between baseball and betting. So far in this off-season, the general managers have behaved as if there is a recession in the sport. But that word is barely whispered in a room with no clocks and no windows. 
 Rood said that two consulting services provided MGM Mirage with an endless flow of information and that he also received insight from his casino managers and supervisors in establishing odds. There are numerous factors that determine a baseball team's odds, including, of course, how it performed last season, how its players are expected to do in the new season and what kind of players it has added. Before Rood sets or revises a team's odds, he has digested details from about 50 associates.
 In addition, Rood explained how the amount of money that was bet on a team also impacted the odds. The casino wants to make money, but it also does not want to lose too much money. So, if there is a lot of action on a particular team to win the World Series, Rood will lower its odds to balance the betting.
 ''Let the public bet the way they want to bet,'' Rood said. ''I'll set our position on what's best for the company and scout the little percentage we want to operate on. If you go in wanting to hit home runs left and right, you might have a short career at this.''
 The lovable Cubs, who have not won a World Series since 1908, have the most bets, or ticket counts, placed on them at the MGM Mirage properties, which could partly explain why they are tied with the Red Sox for the best odds. Rood said the Cubs were routinely wagered on more than any other baseball team, followed by the Red Sox and the Yankees. Baseball accounts for 20 percent of MGM Mirage's sports bets. 
 The odds for winning the World Series may remain the same for a month, or they may change from one minute to the next. When Rood was asked how quickly he would adjust the Yankees' 6-to-1 odds if they signed the pitchers C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett and first baseman Mark Teixeira on Monday, he said it would be done instantaneously. To protect against bettors hustling to pick the Yankees, Rood would lower the odds.
 Rood said the Yankees needed ''more than one arm'' in their starting rotation and had ''some holes,'' so he would not be in a rush to do much if they added only Sabathia.
 ''If it was just C. C., I might not even touch it,'' Rood said.
 As much as the Yankees want Sabathia, the premier free agent, he is no Brett Favre in the betting world. When Favre was rumored to be going to the Jets, the Minnesota Vikings or the Tampa Bay Buccaneers last summer, Rood said he was worried about heavy betting on the N.F.L. team that would eventually get the marquee quarterback. As a precaution, Rood reduced the odds on all three teams until Favre's situation was resolved. 
 ''My responsibility to the company is to check the assets of the company as best I can while providing a fair price, a fair product to our customers,'' Rood said.
 Favre touches the ball on almost every offensive play; Sabathia touches the ball only once every five games. So the teams pursuing Sabathia, like the Yankees and the Milwaukee Brewers, have not received the treatment that the suitors of Favre did. Rood said one strong pitcher did not guarantee a team would make the postseason.
 On Nov. 3, the Mets were a 15-to-1 betting choice to win the World Series. But even though they have not made significant roster additions, they were an 8-to-1 pick Monday. Did the better odds mean the Mets were expected to revamp their bullpen, bolster their rotation, add a corner outfielder and rumble into late October?
 Actually, it meant that bettors thought they were a good bet at 15 to 1, which caused the odds to decrease. To those who bet on the Mets, it means a lot. To the Mets and 29 other teams, what they accomplish here means a lot more.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jay Rood is the race and sports book director for MGM Mirage. At 10 Las Vegas casinos, he establishes the odds of a baseball team winning a championship.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CASINOS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (55%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (68%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%); TAMPA, FL, USA (53%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); FLORIDA, USA (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



307 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Car Dealers Brace for Closings, or for a Fight, as Detroit Seeks Help

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
As Denny Fitzpatrick, a Chevrolet-Hummer dealer near Oakland, Calif., has watched the top Detroit auto executives plead for money from Congress, he has been rooting for them -- but with no great conviction.
 With a bailout moving through Capitol Hill, ''we have a chance of being hung with a softer rope,'' said Mr. Fitzpatrick, chairman of the California New Car Dealers Association.
 His gallows humor is typical of dealers these days who believe they are on the chopping block, whatever happens to the Detroit automobile companies. All three carmakers have told Congress they need to cut their dealer networks as a fundamental element of their survival plans. Even as Congress works on a bailout for Detroit, many dealers are still likely to be nudged, or forced, out of business. 
 It is possible fights could erupt between some dealers and the auto companies. Virtually every state has stringent laws that make it difficult for manufacturers to alter dealer contracts, even when they abandon brands, as General Motors is talking about doing. These laws have been a big impediment to auto companies in the past as they sought to cut their dealer networks. 
 But this time, many analysts say the sheer scale of the economic downturn is reducing the likelihood that many dealers will fight to stay in what has become a money-losing business.
 The National Automobile Dealers Association has predicted that 900 of the nation's 20,770 new-car dealers will have gone out of business by the end of this year, and many automobile industry experts say that estimate will rise to thousands in 2009. 
 Auto dealerships are an economic force everywhere in the country, employing some one million people. In the past, their sales accounted for as much as 20 percent of sales tax revenue for state and local governments.
 The prospective dealer shutdowns would be an acceleration of a trend that goes back a decade. General Motors, which had 8,150 dealerships in 2000, has pared that number to 6,400 as its share of the car market has shrunk. In the plan that Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, presented to Congress last week to save the company, he called for reducing that number to 4,700 over the next three years. 
 Industry experts note that Chevrolet, G.M.'s flagship brand, has about three times as many dealerships as Toyota but sells about the same number of cars. That network is a legacy of the era when G.M. controlled 60 percent of the domestic market, instead of 20 percent or so today. The high number of dealerships means too little business for each, and it also means General Motors is paying higher transportation costs to send vehicles and spare parts to multiple dealerships.
 Mark LaNeve, a G.M. vice president for sales, service and marketing, said in an interview that it was vital for the company to reduce the number of dealerships to have ''a healthy competitive retail channel.'' 
 Mr. LaNeve said a competing foreign-car dealership with higher sales ''has more money to invest in their facilities, in their people, in training, in the customer, in advertising, and that puts us at a competitive disadvantage. That's why you do dealer reduction.'' 
 As sales dropped precipitously in recent months, Grant Thornton L.L.P., a firm that advises on reorganization, recently estimated that over all, 3,800 dealerships would need to close to maintain each dealership's annual sales at last year's levels. ''The economics of the situation are forcing the consolidation and rationalization of the network,'' said Paul Melville, a partner at Grant Thornton. ''That is a good thing.'' 
 The dealers, of course, do not agree that they are part of Detroit's problem. They argue that they invested millions of dollars in their dealerships, buying the land, building the facilities and providing services for customers. They also said that they build good will for automobile companies by supporting local Little League teams and other charities.
 But while leaders of dealer associations want to keep the number of dealers as high as possible, they see no other option than to support the Detroit companies' efforts in Congress, even when those plans explicitly call for fewer dealers.
 James T. Fleming, president of the Connecticut Automotive Retailers Association, said that fewer dealerships ''will happen one way or another,'' and that a Congressional rescue package ''is preferable to bankruptcy or no action.'' 
 The dealers hope that Congress will help them by giving consumers temporary tax breaks on auto loan interest, and they want other help to loosen credit so dealers can finance their inventories. Some dealers are hoping an auto bailout will allow the manufacturers to offer them compensation if they agree to close without a fight.
 The economic decline among the dealers is undermining their legendary political clout. Their powerful lobbying organizations secured the franchise laws in virtually every state, which protected them from efforts to winnow their numbers in the past. Now it is possible that Congress will try to suspend or otherwise override those laws as part of a reorganization plan, something dealers have begun to lobby against. 
 In recent years, dealers that have closed their doors have usually come to severance agreements with the manufacturers, accepting compensation packages worth as much as $500,000.
 Lawyers who have represented dealers in the past said that while they foresaw some difficult negotiations between manufacturers and dealers over issues like the size of severance payments, the dealers were under too much financial pressure this time to put up a big fight.
 The state dealer-protection laws ''may come into play in isolated circumstances,'' said Michael G. Charapp, president of the National Association of Dealer Counsel, a trade group for lawyers who work with auto dealers. ''But for the most part, market forces will take care of most of this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Auto dealership employees rallying for a bailout of the car industry. The three Detroit carmakers have said that they need to close dealerships to survive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); TRENDS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); SALES TAX (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



308 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. FAST FORWARD; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: America's Team Is Falling Into Recession

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The gold-and-black sign flapping in the wind like a gigantic Terrible Towel on Sunday night at Heinz Field might have been the final indignity for the Dallas Cowboys. It read: ''America's Real Team.'' Ouch. 
 How many more slaps to the face can the Cowboys possibly take? 
 From the look and sound of their pin-drop silent locker room after their 20-13 defeat to the Steelers, not many more. Coach Wade Phillips called the loss, in which the Cowboys blew a 10-point fourth quarter lead, the toughest he has had with the Cowboys, which is saying something considering that he has lost enough games that he might not return next year. 
 Over and over, Jason Witten took the blame for slipping on the interception that lost the game. Jerry Jones, the Cowboys' owner, was ashen, explaining over and over that he was not worried about his team's heart, but about its numbers. 
 The critical number is five, as in the number of losses. ''I'm sick,'' Jones said. ''I'm sick for the players. We knew if we got to 8-5 that would put it on us to win the final three games probably.''
 The Cowboys play the Giants on Sunday night with an opportunity for Dallas to cling to its wild-card hopes (the Giants have already clinched the division). Imagine how different it would have been if the Cowboys had held on to beat the Steelers and were just two games behind the Giants. Instead, in seven minutes, hope gave way to despair.
 The Cowboys are tied with the Atlanta Falcons for the sixth playoff spot (the loser of Monday's National Football Conference South showdown between Carolina and Tampa Bay, both 9-3, would be in the first wild-card spot). But the bigger problem is that the Cowboys have realized their potential for only fleeting moments this season. 
 The Cowboys spent a lot of money to build a team designed to outscore opponents. You do not put Terrell Owens and Roy Williams on the field together with the idea that you are going to win a lot of defensive battles. But Owens is ranked 28th in the league in receptions and 19th in yardage, and the Cowboys are just 12th in points per game. Too often, the Cowboys have not been able to push the ball down the field when they have most needed to, as was glaringly obvious against the Steelers. 
 The wind made passing difficult Sunday, but not impossible, as the Steelers' biggest offensive playmaker, in this case Nate Washington, showed when he caught three passes in the fourth-quarter scoring drive that ended with a touchdown pass to Heath Miller. The biggest Cowboys playmakers -- Owens and Williams -- caught five passes total, as many as running back Tashard Choice. 
 The Steelers were no thing of beauty. They have to get their protection problems straightened out and Ben Roethlisberger has to get rid of the ball faster before the playoffs start. And they have now been stopped three times on the 1 at home in the last month, a weird development for a team that once employed someone nicknamed The Bus. But in the mark of a good team merely having a bad day -- rather than a not-as-good-as-we-thought team having a bad year, like the Cowboys -- the Steelers did just enough to win. When someone asked Coach Mike Tomlin about his offense's ''terrible'' performance, he replied: ''Terrible is a strong word. Very poor.'' 
 The Cowboys, despite superior talent, were very poor, too. 
 After the fourth-quarter interception, Owens was seen yelling at a Cowboys assistant coach. Naturally, Owens intimated that the pass intended for Witten, which ended up in Deshea Townsend's hands, and in the end zone for the Steelers' winning touchdown, should have gone to him. He said he had one-on-one coverage and that the Steelers defender was playing 10 to 12 yards off him. That was a fair assessment. 
 This was not: ''It's his job to go out there and assess what the defense is, and he made that decision,'' Owens said, implying that Tony Romo's decision to throw to Witten was the wrong one.
 That is just what the Cowboys do not need, a little more strife in a season that has overflowed with it. Adam (used-to-be-Pacman) Jones returned to action after his latest suspension and it was nothing more than a note. 
 The Cowboys have three brutal games remaining against the Giants, the Ravens and at the Eagles. The Cowboys have sunk into the depths of adversity before and bounced out, but this time Romo cannot come off the injured list to rescue this season -- this team -- that looks beyond saving. 
 ''I hope this gives us more fight,'' receiver Patrick Crayton said. ''But to come away with a loss like this is deflating.''
 Confronting Reality 
 It might be time to just say it: the Detroit Lions are probably going to go 0-16. With an inexplicable tendency to get a lead, and then lose it (something the Lions have done in six of their last seven games), Detroit is steaming toward the ignominious.
 They might have blown their last best chance Sunday when they lost to the Vikings, who were led, if you want to call it that, by the former starting quarterback Tarvaris Jackson. 
 With games remaining against the roaring Colts, the Saints and the Packers (only the Saints go to Detroit), the Lions appear doomed to being a punch line. 
 They can take some solace from the fact that last year's joke -- the Dolphins, who were 0-13 before finally winning their only game of the season -- are now tied for first place in the American Football Conference East. Then again, Bill Parcells is unlikely to leave Florida to engineer a turnaround in Detroit any time soon. 
 The Vikings should not be feeling too great right now, though. Gus Frerotte may miss this week's game against Arizona with a back injury that forced him from Sunday's game. Jackson could take back the starting job, which he lost after two games. 
 More ominous is that a judge could decide the fates of Pat and Kevin Williams, who were allowed to play Sunday while their Starcaps-based league suspensions were reviewed. If those suspensions are upheld, the Williamses will head to the bench and the Vikings will try to cling to their one-game lead without the heart of their defense. 
 They Just Keep Going 
 The New England Patriots are back in a tie for first place in the A.F.C. East thanks, in part, to the extraordinary workers they brought back from furlough this week. Rosevelt Colvin and Junior Seau played a significant number of snaps on Sunday. 
 The Patriots play the Oakland Raiders this week and, after Tedy Bruschi did not return Sunday after leaving the game with a knee injury, you have to wonder if Lawrence Taylor is next on the Belichick/Pioli speed dial.
 The Patriots still could miss the playoffs, but in a season beset by injuries, Scott Pioli, the team's vice president for player personnel, has done a remarkable job fitting in spare parts to keep the engine running -- hello, BenJarvus Green-Ellis. 
 The Patriots deserved raves last year for the dominant team they assembled, but this season might serve as a quieter, but more impressive example of their resourcefulness. Shouldn't the Lions make Pioli an overwhelming offer to try to bring that resourcefulness to Detroit?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linebacker Junior Seau (55), who came out of retirement last week, helped the Patriots move into a tie for first in the A.F.C. East.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OTTO GREULE JR./GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (58%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



309 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: In Biggest U.S. Cities, Minorities Are at 50%

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For the first time, Hispanic, black, Asian and other nonwhite residents account for half the population of the nation's largest cities, according to new census figures.
 Further, the data document a rapidly growing ethnic diversity in small-town America as well.
 In 2000, the Census Bureau found that non-Hispanic whites were 52.3 percent of the people in the central cities of all metropolitan areas. In the latest count, that share had declined to 50.2 percent. 
 The decline among whites in the suburbs was even more pronounced, to less than 72 percent from nearly 76 percent.
 In rural areas, the share of whites declined slightly, that of blacks remained the same, and the proportion of Asians and especially Hispanics increased.
 The figures, from a three-year combined count taken by the bureau's American Community Survey in 2005-7, offers a first detailed look since the 2000 census at the growing diversity of small-town America: towns and counties of 20,000 to 65,000 people. ''What we found was that in large part, they look a lot like the total population,'' said Scott Boggess, survey coordinator for household and economic statistics. 
 Many of the small towns, some of them home to colleges, mirrored changes taking place in cities and suburbs. 
 Of the 50,000 people age 5 or over in Dallas County, Iowa, for instance, the number who speak a language other than English at home rose 69 percent from 2000, to 4,200.
 In Enterprise, Nev., population 65,000, which led small-town growth for every major racial group, the Hispanic population grew by a factor of five, to 9,800, and the Asian population grew thirteenfold, to 10,200.
 ''Not only are new immigrant minorities spreading away from metropolitan areas, but they are now moving to small places, both within, outside and far beyond traditional settlements,'' said William H. Frey, a Brookings Institution demographer.
 Dr. Frey said the shifts so far this decade ''reflect economic forces that have driven middle-income whites and some blacks to smaller places, thus creating jobs in construction and other low-skilled industries for immigrant minorities in small suburbs and exurbs across the country.'' 
 Most of the smaller cities and towns that have registered big influxes of Hispanics and Asians are in or near states, like California, Florida and Texas, where those groups' immigrant populations and their descendants have traditionally settled. But there are a smattering of newer destinations as well, including Virginia and Chicago. 
 A separate analysis of the latest figures by Mark Mather, associate vice president for domestic programs at the Population Reference Bureau, a research organization in Washington, found growing poverty rates among children in the nation's midsize counties, small towns and rural areas.
 High poverty rates in Appalachia, the rural South, the Rio Grande Valley and the Upper Midwest ''are linked to long-term social and economic trends in these areas, rather than short-term fluctuations in wages or unemployment,'' Dr. Mather said. 
 Over all, Dr. Frey said, the latest survey figures ''provide a vivid snapshot of how immigrants and newer racial minorities are dispersing, not only to new states, regions and metropolitan areas but to smaller-sized places within them.'' 
 ''They were first drawn by economic pulls to these areas,'' he said, ''but as these groups continue to establish roots in small-town America, they will gradually change the fabric of minority-majority interactions nationwide.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SUBURBS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); CITIES (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (66%); CHILD POVERTY (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



310 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Free From Tribune's Bankruptcy Filing, Cubs Proceed as Usual

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
By excluding the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field from its petition for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Tribune Company is keeping the sale of two profitable assets from being detoured by its future in reorganization.
 Had the team and the ballpark been among the dozens of subsidiaries included in the Tribune bankruptcy filing, they would have been subject to the intense daily scrutiny of creditors eager to get their money and to a likely court-ordered restart of the bidding.
The amount the Cubs spend for free agents could have been questioned or restricted, as if the judge presiding over the case were a cranky Cubs fan on talk radio with a whole lot of power. But by being segregated from the process, the debt-free Cubs can sign free agents or make trades and operate as if what's happening at debt-awash Tribune were a distant corporate annoyance. 
 For a team without a World Series championship since 1908 -- the exclusion of exclusions -- being left out of the Chapter 11 lineup is like a playoff series win.
 ''No change in anything,'' Jim Hendry, the Cubs' general manager, told Jack Curry of The New York Times. ''No budget structure different. No job cutbacks. No pay cuts for our employees on the baseball side. Nothing.''
 Tribune wants at least $1 billion for the Cubs and 94-year-old Wrigley Field. The fight is apparently between three bidders who have made qualifying offers:
 Thomas Ricketts, a Chicago bond underwriter who is part of the founding family of TD Ameritrade and used to live in an apartment across the street from Wrigley.
 Hersch Klaff, a Chicago real estate magnate.
 The team of Marc Utay, a managing partner of Clarion Capital, a New York investment firm; and Leo J. Hindery Jr., the former chief executive of the YES Network, who runs InterMedia Partners, a media equity fund.
 Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, who was accused of insider trading in a civil suit filed last month by the Securities and Exchange Commission, had been a vocal suitor for a while, but it is not known if he is still involved.
 It is not unusual for certain subsidiaries to be excluded from the Chapter 11 filing of a parent. In the spectacular bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, for example, the money-management firm Neuberger Berman was not part of the filing. Yet its sale, announced last week, must still be approved by the United States Bankruptcy Court, as will any sale of the Cubs, Wrigley Field and another asset excluded from the bankruptcy filing -- the Cubs' 25 percent stake in Comcast SportsNet Chicago, the regional sports network.
 ''The general explanation for not including a subsidiary in a bankruptcy is that it's a stand-alone company and not in need of reorganization,'' said Harvey Strickon, a partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, who specializes in bankruptcy law. 
 Saul Burian, managing director of the financial restructuring group at Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin, an investment bank, said: ''Why disrupt subsidiary operations if you don't have to? You may get the best of both worlds: the urgency and competitive auction dynamic that helps get a deal done and access to the bankruptcy court to give the buyer certainty'' -- with immunity from creditor challenges if the judge approves the sale.
 Separation from the filing is not a reason for Lou Piniella to strip off his shirt and crack open a beer or three in Wrigley's bleachers. Under certain circumstances, Tribune creditors could try to force the Cubs into bankruptcy or seek to impose court oversight on its operations. ''The Cubs and Wrigley are legally under the control of the parent in bankruptcy,'' said Robert M. Lawless, a professor at the University of Illinois College of Law.
 The Cubs -- worth $642 million according to Forbes's survey of team value this year -- have been on the auction block since April 2007. The process, which has moved as slowly as Ernie Lombardi ran the bases, reached a peak within the past two weeks with the submission of formal bids. Tribune has reportedly sought $1.3 billion, but time, the deep recession and the credit freeze may force it to accept less.
 Getting $1 billion as fast as it can to help Mother Tribune is in the company's best interest. Still, Bob Dupuy, the president of Major League Baseball, said no one in M.L.B. had counseled the Tribune Company to keep the Cubs out of Chapter 11 to expedite a process in sore need of speed.
 ''They have to do what's necessary for their shareholders,'' Dupuy said.
 Baseball teams have dealt with bankruptcy before. The Baltimore Orioles were sold to Peter Angelos out of Eli Jacobs's bankruptcy in 1993. A car dealer named Bud Selig acquired the Seattle Pilots out of bankruptcy in 1970 and moved them to Milwaukee.
 For the winning Cubs bidder, the critical element will not only be the highest price, but also having the highest amount of certain financing -- not easy at a time when Detroit's automakers have been genuflecting before Congress for loans to stay out of bankruptcy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); PETITIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BASEBALL (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LITIGATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); INSIDER TRADING (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); JUDGES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (54%); INTERMEDIA PARTNERS (53%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



311 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Where Is Leno Going? To Prime Time, on NBC

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
NBC will keep Jay Leno five nights a week, but in prime time, competing not with David Letterman, but with shows like ''CSI: Miami.'' 
 The network will announce Tuesday that Mr. Leno's new show will appear at 10 o'clock each weeknight in a format similar to ''The Tonight Show,'' which he has hosted since 1993.
 Five years ago NBC announced that it would hand the job of host of that franchise show to Conan O'Brien in May 2009. Since then the network has maneuvered to try to keep Mr. Leno, who continues to be the late-night ratings leader, fearing that he could leave and start a new late-night show on a competitor's network. ''The Tonight Show'' is seen at 11:35 weeknights. 
 Mr. Leno, 58, was known to have suitors, including ABC, the Fox network and the Sony television studio. But he was apparently persuaded to stay at NBC after aggressive personal wooing by Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, a unit of General Electric.
 Retaining Mr. Leno will undoubtedly be seen as a coup for Mr. Zucker, who has faced some serious questions about the wisdom of guaranteeing ''The Tonight Show'' to Mr. O'Brien and possibly losing Mr. Leno to another network.
 Details of Mr. Leno's agreement and the new show were provided by NBC executives who were briefed on the matter and who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to talk about the project until the network made its announcement.
 The new show, which will begin next fall, is expected to be set in Mr. Leno's longtime studio in Burbank, Calif. Mr. Leno is expected to retain many of the most popular elements of his ''Tonight Show,'' including his monologue and bits like ''Headlines'' and ''Jay Walking.'' One ''Tonight Show'' staff member said the new program would not be a variety show.
 Mr. O'Brien, currently the host of NBC's ''Late Night,'' will move ''The Tonight Show'' to a new studio on the NBC Universal lot in Universal City, Calif., in May. Mr. Leno, who is known to want to work as much as possible, would then miss only three months on the air, and would use that time to prepare his new show.
 An executive involved in the discussions with Mr. Leno said that Mr. Leno finally came around to the idea that the television business had changed and a show like his could be a success in prime time.
 Running the same show in prime time five nights a week would be a novelty for a broadcast network. Such so-called stripped shows have been a staple of daytime broadcasting.
 The offer of a weeknight prime-time show is one that Mr. Zucker has favored for some time. In 2002, when David Letterman, Mr. Leno's competitor at CBS, was contemplating whether to renew his contract, Mr. Zucker offered him a show at 8 o'clock weeknights. He turned it down.
 Executives involved in the decision said Monday that because ratings have decreased and costs are becoming more critical, NBC could reap an enormous financial benefit from this move.
 Though Mr. Leno will command an enormous salary, probably more than $30 million a year, the cost of his show will be a fraction of what a network pays for dramas at 10 p.m. Those average about $3 million an episode. That adds up to $15 million a week to fill the 10 p.m. hour. Mr. Leno's show is expected to cost less than $2 million a week.
 In addition, NBC will get more weeks of original programming. Network dramas typically make 22 to 24 episodes a year. Under this deal, the executives involved in the discussions said, Mr. Leno will perform 46 weeks a year.
 That cost differential will probably be enough for NBC to absorb any fall in ratings from its current slate of dramas. Mr. Leno has averaged 4.8 million viewers for his show this year, with a rating of 1.3, or 1.7 million people, in the category of viewers ages 18 to 49, which most advertisers favor.
 Few shows now at 10 p.m. could be considered hits. They include ''CSI: Miami,'' and ''CSI: New York'' on CBS and ''Law & Order SVU'' and ''E.R.'' on NBC. ''E.R.'' is about the leave the air. ''SVU'' will probably move to 9 p.m. next fall.
 There have been no new hits at 10 p.m. on any network in almost four years; ratings for shows in that time slot continue to fall.
 That does not mean that neither the network nor Mr. Leno has no risk in the move. Mr. Leno's shows tend to fare best in their first half hour; if they were to decline too much in the second half hour, NBC's affiliated stations would see their news shows adversely affected. And there may be some question about whether Mr. Leno's show at 10 might diminish the stature of Mr. O'Brien's ''Tonight Show'' at 11:35.
 But Peter Lassally, the longtime late-night producer of shows starring Johnny Carson, Mr. Letterman and now Craig Ferguson, said that NBC came to Mr. Carson in the late 1980s with a similar idea, but that Mr. Carson turned it down. 
 ''It's all different now,'' Mr. Lassally said. ''The economic factors have changed so much it makes complete sense for NBC to try this.''
 On Monday Mr. Zucker suggested at a news conference in New York that in the future networks might have to cut back the hours of prime-time programming. The program with Mr. Leno would effectively cut the number of hours NBC needed to fill each week from 22 to 17.
 Mr. Leno had no comment. NBC executives also declined to comment. The network is expected to announce the deal with Mr. Leno in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Jay Leno's new prime-time show on NBC misstated the year that Mr. Leno became host of ''The Tonight Show.'' It was 1992, not 1993. The article also misstated, in some copies, the year that Conan O'Brien will succeed Mr. Leno at ''The Tonight Show.'' He will take over as host in May 2009, not May 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jay Leno will move to 10 p.m. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL DRINKWATER/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (79%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (93%); CONAN O'BRIEN (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



312 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Liberals Wondering When Obama's Team Will Reflect Them

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama's appointments have tilted so much to the political center that they have drawn praise from the likes of Karl Rove and Rush Limbaugh. That alone would seem enough to set off a revolt in his liberal base. But a month into Mr. Obama's transition, many on the political left are trying to hold their tongues.
 In assembling his team to date, Mr. Obama has largely passed over progressives, opting to keep President Bush's defense secretary, tapping a retired general close to Senator John McCain and recruiting economists from the traditionally corporate, free-trade, deficit-hawk wing of the party. The choices have deeply frustrated liberals who thought Mr. Obama's election signaled the rise of a new progressive era.
 But so far, they are mainly muting their protest, clinging to the belief that Mr. Obama still means what he said on the campaign trail and remaining wary of undermining what they see as the most liberal president sent to the White House in a generation. They are quietly lobbying for more liberals in the next round of appointments, seeking at least some like-minded voices at the table. And they are banking on the idea that no matter whom he installs under him, Mr. Obama will be the driving force for the change they seek. 
 ''It's a great question -- one that many of us have been trying to avoid,'' said Representative Raul M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, the incoming co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, when asked last week how liberals viewed Mr. Obama's team. ''The euphoria of the election is still there, and still there for me. It's not a question of benefit of the doubt. It's a question of trust, and I trust that we're going to be moving in the right direction.''
 As it happens, Mr. Grijalva is the focus of some of that trust. The Obama transition team has let it be known that he is under consideration for secretary of the interior, and many liberals have made that possible nomination a litmus test for whether Mr. Obama really is serious about including them in the top echelon of his government.
 Others are swallowing concerns about personnel to concentrate instead on policy. Some see a New Deal for the 21st century in Mr. Obama's plans to push an economic recovery program that would devote hundreds of billions of dollars to infrastructure projects, social safety-net programs and environmentally friendly industry.
 ''He ran on such a progressive agenda, if he's not breaking away from that, if he's getting centrists to implement it, we'll take that,'' said Robert L. Borosage, president of the Institute for America's Future and once a top adviser to Jesse L. Jackson's presidential campaign.
 Markos Moulitsas, founder of the influential Daily Kos site on the Internet, said it was way too early to begin judging Mr. Obama. ''Some people may be nit-picky about his choices but at the end of the day, he's going to make better choices than John McCain would have made,'' Mr. Moulitsas said by telephone. ''There will be a time to push him, but as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to wait to see what it means on a policy basis, not on personalities.''
 Some bloggers have been less patient. ''Why isn't there a single member of Obama's cabinet who will be advising him from the left?'' asked Chris Bowers on his site, OpenLeft.com. Kevin Drum, writing on the Web site of the liberal magazine Mother Jones, echoed that sentiment: ''I mean, that is why most of us voted for him, right?''
 In an opinion article for The Washington Post on Sunday, David Corn, the Washington bureau chief for Mother Jones, wrote that ''progressives are -- depending on whom you ask -- disappointed, irritated or fit to be tied.'' But he added that ''there's no rebellion yet at hand'' because the left still is hoping that Mr. Obama will hijack the establishment to advance liberal causes.
 Mr. Obama's loyalists have appealed for calm.
 ''This is not a time for the left wing of our party to draw conclusions about the cabinet and White House appointments that President-elect Obama is making,'' Steve Hildebrand, one of his top campaign aides, wrote on The Huffington Post in a message to progressives on Sunday. ''Some believe the appointments generally aren't progressive enough. Having worked with former Senator Obama for the last two years, I can tell you, that isn't the way he thinks and it's not likely the way he will lead.''
 The mixed emotions on the left reflect a larger uncertainty about how to view Mr. Obama. Although National Journal deemed him the most liberal senator based on major votes and many liberals flocked to his campaign, Mr. Obama ran more on inspiration than ideology and has not always adopted the orthodoxy of the left. He proposed expanding health care coverage but does not favor a government-run single-payer system. He has criticized the Bush counterterrorism policies but voted for a compromise surveillance bill.
 In the weeks since his election, Mr. Obama or his advisers have signaled that he might delay some promises that appealed to progressives, like raising taxes on the wealthy, reopening negotiations over the North American Free Trade Agreement and ending restrictions on gay men and lesbians in the military. While renewing his desire to withdraw combat forces from Iraq in 16 months, he has emphasized that he will listen to alternatives presented by the military.
 Some liberals said they would have only themselves to blame if their expectations were not met. ''So many progressives were misled about what Obama is and what he believes,'' Glenn Greenwald wrote in the online magazine Salon. ''But it wasn't Obama who misled them. It was their own desires, their eagerness to see what they wanted to see rather than what reality offered.''
 At the same time, Mr. Obama arrives in office at a moment when the political dialogue has shifted to the left. Ideas that used to be considered on the fringe are now much more centrist, including heavy government spending in the short term to lift the economy and addressing energy and climate change through green technology. The debate over Iraq no longer is whether to withdraw troops but how quickly.
 Even some of his appointees have evolved in their views. Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary chosen to be Mr. Obama's chief White House economic adviser, talks much more about income inequality, financial industry regulation and other favorite causes of the left. ''The Larry Summers of 2008 is not the Larry Summers of 1993 or 1999,'' said Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor and publisher of The Nation, a liberal magazine.
 Ms. vanden Heuvel has been more critical of the national security team, to be anchored by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state, with Robert M. Gates staying on as defense secretary and Gen. James L. Jones as national security adviser. In her magazine, Ms. vanden Heuvel asked why those who had opposed the Iraq war from the beginning, as Mr. Obama did, do not seem to have a place on the team.
 Yet she said liberal activists must learn to work from the inside when possible while also pushing from the outside when necessary. ''Progressives need to be as clear eyed, tough and pragmatic about Obama as he is about us,'' she said in an interview last week. ''It's too early to tell.''
 While hewing mostly to the center, Mr. Obama did heed the left in giving up on John O. Brennan, a longtime Central Intelligence Agency officer who was in line to lead the agency, after complaints about his views of interrogation programs. Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. named a liberal economist, Jared Bernstein, as an adviser last week. And Mr. Obama said on Sunday his choice for veterans affairs secretary would be Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, the retired Army chief of staff who became a hero to Iraq war opponents for his public clash with top Bush administration officials over troop levels.
 Having lost out in most of the top-tier positions, liberals are pushing favorites for remaining jobs: Mr. Grijalva for the Interior Department, Representative Xavier Becerra of California for United States trade representative, Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts for energy secretary and Jim McGovern of Massachusetts for agriculture secretary.
 ''We assume that there will be a philosophical balance when we're all through with this,'' said Representative Lynn Woolsey of California. 
 Tim Carpenter, national director of Progressive Democrats of America, which was founded in 2004 out of frustration with Senator John Kerry's position on the Iraq war, said the retention of Mr. Gates was ''startling'' and complained that as Mr. Obama builds his team, ''everybody he's bringing in is to the right of him.'' But he expressed cautious optimism.
 ''Change is in the air,'' Mr. Carpenter said. ''The question is what kind of change. We hope Barack Obama will be a more progressive president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Barack Obama's team is being cast as centrist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); KARL ROVE (74%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); RAUL M GRIJALVA (58%); JESSE JACKSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



313 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Terrorists Want to Destroy Pakistan, Too

BYLINE: By ASIF ALI ZARDARI. 
Asif Ali Zardari is the president of Pakistan.

DATELINE: Islamabad, Pakistan 

 BODY:
 THE recent death and destruction in Mumbai, India, brought to my mind the death and destruction in Karachi on Oct. 18, 2007, when terrorists attacked a festive homecoming rally for my wife, Benazir Bhutto. Nearly 150 Pakistanis were killed and more than 450 were injured. The terrorist attacks in Mumbai may be a news story for most of the world. For me it is a painful reality of shared experience. Having seen my wife escape death by a hairbreadth on that day in Karachi, I lost her in a second, unfortunately successful, attempt two months later. 
 The Mumbai attacks were directed not only at India but also at Pakistan's new democratic government and the peace process with India that we have initiated. Supporters of authoritarianism in Pakistan and non-state actors with a vested interest in perpetuating conflict do not want change in Pakistan to take root. 
 To foil the designs of the terrorists, the two great nations of Pakistan and India, born together from the same revolution and mandate in 1947, must continue to move forward with the peace process. Pakistan is shocked at the terrorist attacks in Mumbai. We can identify with India's pain. I am especially empathetic. I feel this pain every time I look into the eyes of my children. 
 Pakistan is committed to the pursuit, arrest, trial and punishment of anyone involved in these heinous attacks. But we caution against hasty judgments and inflammatory statements. As was demonstrated in Sunday's raids, which resulted in the arrest of militants, Pakistan will take action against the non-state actors found within our territory, treating them as criminals, terrorists and murderers. Not only are the terrorists not linked to the government of Pakistan in any way, we are their targets and we continue to be their victims. 
 India is a mature nation and a stable democracy. Pakistanis appreciate India's democratic contributions. But as rage fueled by the Mumbai attacks catches on, Indians must pause and take a breath. India and Pakistan -- and the rest of the world -- must work together to track down the terrorists who caused mayhem in Mumbai, attacked New York, London and Madrid in the past, and destroyed the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad in September. The terrorists who killed my wife are connected by ideology to these enemies of civilization.
 These militants did not arise from whole cloth. Pakistan was an ally of the West throughout the cold war. The world worked to exploit religion against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan by empowering the most fanatic extremists as an instrument of destruction of a superpower. The strategy worked, but its legacy was the creation of an extremist militia with its own dynamic. 
 Pakistan continues to pay the price: the legacy of dictatorship, the fatigue of fanaticism, the dismemberment of civil society and the destruction of our democratic infrastructure. The resulting poverty continues to fuel the extremists and has created a culture of grievance and victimhood. 
 The challenge of confronting terrorists who have a vast support network is huge; Pakistan's fledgling democracy needs help from the rest of the world. We are on the frontlines of the war on terrorism. We have 150,000 soldiers fighting Al Qaeda, the Taliban and their extremist allies along the border with Afghanistan -- far more troops than NATO has in Afghanistan. 
 Nearly 2,000 Pakistanis have lost their lives to terrorism in this year alone, including 1,400 civilians and 600 security personnel ranging in rank from ordinary soldier to three-star general. There have been more than 600 terrorism-related incidents in Pakistan this year. The terrorists have been set back by our aggressive war against them in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas and the Pashtun-majority areas bordering Afghanistan. Six hundred militants have been killed in recent attacks, hundreds by Pakistani F-16 jet strikes in the last two months. 
 Terrorism is a regional as well as a global threat, and it needs to be battled collectively. We understand the domestic political considerations in India in the aftermath of Mumbai. Nevertheless, accusations of complicity on Pakistan's part only complicate the already complex situation. 
 For India, Pakistan and the United States, the best response to the Mumbai carnage is to coordinate in counteracting the scourge of terrorism. The world must act to strengthen Pakistan's economy and democracy, help us build civil society and provide us with the law enforcement and counterterrorism capacities that will enable us to fight the terrorists effectively. 
 Benazir Bhutto once said that democracy is the best revenge against the abuses of dictatorship. In the current environment, reconciliation and rapprochement is the best revenge against the dark forces that are trying to provoke a confrontation between Pakistan and India, and ultimately a clash of civilizations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (91%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); COLD WAR (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); MURDER (58%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); MADRID, SPAIN (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SPAIN (76%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



314 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Lutz for the Defense

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
From the start of its bid for emergency federal aid from Congress, General Motors has presented a mixed message -- both apologizing for past mistakes and defiantly insisting that its problems are due to the financial crisis. 
 It is a strategy that frustrated and even angered some lawmakers in recent weeks.
 G.M.'s blunt-spoken vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, would like to clear up any confusion. 
 On Monday, the 76-year-old Mr. Lutz gave his first interviews since the Big Three's campaign for a bailout began, and he dispensed with the polite, analytical approach that his boss, Rick Wagoner, the chief executive, used during four rocky hearings before Congress.
 In making Mr. Lutz available to the press, G.M. is clearly hoping that his straight talk will help convince lawmakers to approve a bridge loan to stave off bankruptcy, and help fend off mounting criticism of Mr. Wagoner.
 Mr. Lutz objected to recent suggestions by Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the chairman of the banking committee, and others that Mr. Wagoner should be replaced, saying that firing him would be a ''serious step in the wrong direction.''
 ''This has nothing to do with trying to improve the executive team,'' Mr. Lutz said. ''This is the equivalent of the Incan or Mayan days when everybody would go to the top of the volcano and throw a virgin in. It's the feeling that if we make a sacrifice that somehow the gods would be appeased.''
 A veteran of 45 years in the auto business and the force behind bringing such cars to market as the V-10 Dodge Viper, Mr. Lutz personifies the swagger and confidence that Motor City has lost in recent months, as a precipitous drop in auto sales has crippled the companies, forcing them to ask for financial aid.
 ''Why is it that we're just dumb old Detroit all of a sudden?'' Mr. Lutz said. ''Going from a 17 million vehicle market to a 10.8 million market, that's what the problem is.''
 Mr. Lutz said the Big Three may be partly to blame for the chilly reception they received in Washington when they asked for federal assistance.
 ''I have personally been sensing this hostility on the part of Washington my whole life,'' he said. ''But it's partly self-inflicted, because I think there was a period in the U.S. automobile industry where we did not treat Washington and the politicians with sufficient respect.''
 The Detroit executives felt that backlash during their appearances at the testy hearings on Capitol Hill.
 Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, summed up the strained relationship between Congress and the Big Three during last week's hearing before the House financial Services Committee.
 ''I have come to the conclusion that we are still talking at each other rather than to each other,'' he said.
 G.M., in particular, has struggled to come up with a consistent message for why it should get $18 billion in loans to stay afloat.
 On Monday, the automaker put a full-page ad in the Automotive News , a trade journal, entitled ''G.M.'s Commitment to the American People.''
 One passage acknowledged that it had made many mistakes -- more than it said in Congressional hearings -- including letting quality slip and building too many large vehicles that were out of step in a changing market.
 But the company then seemed to congratulate itself for 100 years of achievements. ''We will continue to deliver personal mobility freedom to Americans using the most advanced transportation solutions,'' it said.
 Mr. Lutz, for one, won't dwell on the disappointments.
 ''My sense of frustration is that all of this is hopelessly out of date,'' he said. ''Much of what I read and hear is reflective of the criticism that would have been legitimate of General Motors in the 1980s, but not today.''
 He said he looked forward to working with a government oversight board monitoring G.M.'s use of federal loans.
 Outside overseers, Mr. Lutz said, would get a first-hand look at how difficult it is to be a profitable car company but be hamstrung by huge legacy costs, and comply with dealer franchise laws and regulations on fuel efficiency and vehicle safety. 
 ''They would have an inside look at the stress that a lot of this government regulation is putting on our industry,'' he said.
 G.M. kept Mr. Lutz out of the spotlight during the Congressional hearings for fear that some of his earlier stances -- including that global warming was a ''crock'' -- might make him a lightning rod.
 But with Mr. Wagoner under attack and with the bailout legislation uncertain, the automaker decided to give Mr. Lutz a chance to forcefully defend the company.
 ''You get these people who say, 'I know what I'd do if I were C.E.O. of G.M., like close up all the union plants and set up plants down South with non-union labor,' '' he said. ''Well, any idiot can figure that one out. But how conceivably can you get that done?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert A. Lutz, the vice chairman at General Motors, said criticism of G.M. reflects the company of the 1980s, not today.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Rick Wagoner, left, chief executive of G.M., with Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman, in September. Some lawmakers have called for Mr. Wagoner's resignation, a suggestion Mr. Lutz rejected.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); APPROVALS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (90%); PAUL E KANJORSKI (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



315 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Bonus Season Afoot, Wall Street Tries for a Little Restraint

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Ben White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With Wall Street pay under scrutiny as never before, Morgan Stanley is attaching a string to its annual bonuses -- one that would enable the bank to yank some money back from its employees. 
 The move, announced on Monday, is the most drastic step yet by a major Wall Street bank to quell criticism that bankers and traders had crippled their firms by taking outsize risks to reap outsize pay.
 Under the plan, Morgan Stanley will withhold a portion of its employees' bonuses for three years. If a worker's bets on the markets go wrong during that time, some of the bonus will not be paid. The so-called claw-back provision is intended to discourage employees from making short-sighted decisions by tying their compensation to the bank's long-term performance. 
 It was unclear whether other banks would follow suit. But with pay under a microscope and the annual bonus season now at hand, Wall Street is moving to deflect criticism over paying bonuses after many banks, including Morgan Stanley, accepted billions of dollars from the government. 
 The announcement came on a day when another Wall Street giant, Merrill Lynch, also announced that its senior executives would forgo bonuses this year. Several other major firms have announced similar moves as the public outcry over pay has escalated. 
 Morgan Stanley's three top executives -- John J. Mack, the chief executive, and the co-presidents, James P. Gorman and Walid A. Chammah -- will not be paid bonuses, the firm said. Bonuses for the bank's 14-person operating committee will be cut by 75 percent.
 ''Clearly they're trying to spread the pain out a little bit,'' said John Pierson, president of 10X Partners, a finance recruiting firm in New York. ''But if I worked at Morgan Stanley and was looking at this, I would not be happy.''
 Morgan Stanley and other banks have come under criticism for paying out record bonuses in recent years based on profits that turned out to be illusory. Much of the money that Wall Street earned during the bull market has vanished in the flames of the financial crisis. Goldman Sachs, which also received government money, said several weeks ago that its top seven employees would not receive bonuses this year. 
 The idea that Wall Street executives might collect any bonuses, let alone large ones, has angered many policy makers and ordinary Americans. Wall Street's sensitivity to the subject was evident on Monday at the headquarters of Merrill Lynch, the once-proud brokerage firm that is now being sold to Bank of America. 
 Merrill's chief executive, John A. Thain, had requested a $10 million bonus this year, but the firm's compensation committee balked at awarding him any payout, according to someone familiar with the situation but not authorized to discuss it. 
 Mr. Thain inherited a mess at Merrill when he became chief executive a year ago, and some argue that he prevented the firm from collapsing, as did Lehman Brothers, by selling it to Bank of America in September. Even so, some officials viewed his request for a bonus as ill-timed given the continuing troubles at his firm and the industry at large. 
 ''Paying executives at Merrill millions each in 'performance' bonuses in this context would be oxymoronic to say the least and certainly a thumb in the eye to taxpayers,'' Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general of New York, wrote in a letter to Merrill's board on Monday after The Wall Street Journal ran an article about Mr. Thain's bonus wishes.
 While meeting with Merrill's compensation committee and full board on Monday, Mr. Thain requested that he not receive a bonus. The committee discussed paying him one, possibly in stock rather than cash, but decided that would still outrage the public, according to the person familiar with the conversations.
 Merrill Lynch released a statement saying that Mr. Thain requested no bonus, as did four other senior executives at the company.
 But it was Morgan Stanley's claw-back announcement, which will affect some 7,000 workers, that captured the attention of employment lawyers and recruiters. It is similar to a rule introduced by UBS, the big Swiss bank, in late November, but Morgan's is far broader in its language. Pay can be retracted from workers who engage in ''conduct detrimental to the firm,'' according to an internal memorandum announcing the move, or who cause ''a restatement of results, a significant financial loss or other reputational harm.''
 Morgan Stanley already holds on to 35 to 60 percent of high earners' bonuses, but in the past it has held that money entirely in stock and stock options. Now a large portion will be cash, the bank said.
 ''So if you're a trader and you've had a huge year and you get paid a lot of money and then the following year it turns out you were taking outsize risk, we can go back and ding your pay from the year before,'' said Jeanmarie McFadden, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley.
 The bank's actions could open it to lawsuits, however, employment lawyers said.
 ''We're in uncharted waters whether this is lawful,'' said Gary E. Phelan, a lawyer with Outten & Golden. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Mack, chief of Morgan Stanley, will not get a bonus this year. The firm is also imposing ''claw-back'' provisions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN CEDENO/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Co-presidents Walid Chammah, left, and James Gorman at Morgan Stanley will also go without bonuses this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONUS PAY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (79%); JOHN THAIN (74%); JAMES GORMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



316 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Iran Seeking Policy Shift From Obama

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
Iran said Monday that it would not abandon its nuclear program and urged President-elect Barack Obama to change America's ''carrot-and-stick policy'' toward Iran, the official IRNA news agency reported. 
 Hassan Ghashghavi, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that Iran, which has repeatedly refused to suspend its enrichment of uranium, would not change its nuclear policy. He added that Iran expected Mr. Obama to stick to his campaign promise to change the previous administration's policy. 
 The comments came a day after the television broadcast of an interview in which Mr. Obama he said he would continue offering incentives to encourage Iran to cease enriching uranium but would seek to tighten economic sanctions on the country if it did not.
 Enriched uranium is used as fuel in nuclear power plants; Iran maintains that energy production is the goal of its nuclear program. But more intensely enriched uranium can fuel a nuclear bomb; the West fears Iran is surreptitiously working toward such a weapon. 
 ''What Mr. Obama said is the same old carrot-and-stick approach,'' Mr. Ghashghavi said, speaking at a regular weekly news conference. ''He must be able to change this policy based on his slogan of 'change.' '' Mr. Ghashghavi said that the carrot-and-stick approach was ''a failed policy'' and that Iran expected Mr. Obama to change the ''confrontational policy to one based on interaction.''
 ''They have to recognize our legal rights, and we are willing to engage in an interaction to resolve their concerns,'' he said. ''We need to engage in progress and development.'' 
 In the interview broadcast Sunday, on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Obama said: ''In terms of carrots, we can provide the economic incentives that would be helpful to a country that despite being a net oil producer is under enormous strain, huge inflation, a lot of employment problems.'' 
 Referring to the possibility of tightening economic sanctions, he said, ''But we also have to focus on the sticks.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



317 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Where Are the New Jobs for Women?

BYLINE: By LINDA HIRSHMAN. 
Linda R. Hirshman is the author of ''Get to Work: A Manifesto for Women of the World.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 BARACK OBAMA has announced a plan to stimulate the economy by creating 2.5 million jobs over the next two years. He intends to use the opportunity to make good on two campaign promises -- to invest in road and bridge maintenance and school repair and to create jobs that reduce energy use and emissions that lead to global warming.
 Mr. Obama compared his infrastructure plan to the Eisenhower-era construction of the Interstate System of highways. It brings back the Eisenhower era in a less appealing way as well: there are almost no women on this road to recovery. 
 Back before the feminist revolution brought women into the workplace in unprecedented numbers, this would have been more understandable. But today, women constitute about 46 percent of the labor force. And as the current downturn has worsened, their traditionally lower unemployment rate has actually risen just as fast as men's. A just economic stimulus plan must include jobs in fields like social work and teaching, where large numbers of women work. 
 The bulk of the stimulus program will provide jobs for men, because building projects generate jobs in construction, where women make up only 9 percent of the work force. 
 It turns out that green jobs are almost entirely male as well, especially in the alternative energy area. A broad study by the United States Conference of Mayors found that half the projected new jobs in any green area are in engineering, a field that is only 12 percent female, or in the heavily male professions of law and consulting; the rest are in such traditional male areas as manufacturing, agriculture and forestry. And like companies that build roads, alternative energy firms also employ construction workers and engineers.
 Fortunately, jobs for women can be created by concentrating on professions that build the most important infrastructure -- human capital. In 2007, women were 83 percent of social workers, 94 percent of child care workers, 74 percent of education, training and library workers (including 98 percent of preschool and kindergarten teachers and 92 percent of teachers' assistants). 
 Libraries are closing or cutting back everywhere, while demand for their services, including their Internet connections, has risen. Philadelphia's proposal last month to close 11 branches brought people into the street to protest. 
 Many of the jobs women do are already included in Mr. Obama's campaign promises. Women are teachers, and the campaign promised to provide support for families with children up to the age of 5, increase Head Start financing and quadruple the money spent on Early Head Start to include a quarter-million infants and toddlers. Special education, including arts education, is heavily female as well. Mr. Obama promised to increase financing for arts education and for the National Endowment for the Arts, which supports many school programs. 
 During the campaign, Mr. Obama also promised that the first part of his plan to combat urban poverty would be to replicate a nonprofit organization in New York called the Harlem Children's Zone in 20 cities across the country. The group, which works to improve the quality of life for children and families in the Harlem neighborhood, employs several hundred people in full- and part-time jobs. By making good on this promise, Mr. Obama could create thousands of jobs for women in social work, teaching and child care.
 Unlike the proposal to rebuild roads and bridges, the Harlem Children's Zone program is urban, and thus really green. If cities become more inviting, more people will live in them -- and that means they will drive less, using less fuel. The average New Yorker's greenhouse gas footprint is only about 29 percent as large as that of the average American; the city is one of the greenest places in America. 
 Maybe it would be a better world if more women became engineers and construction workers, but programs encouraging women to pursue engineering have existed for decades without having much success. At the moment, teachers and child care workers still need to support themselves. Many are their families' sole support. 
 A public works program can provide needed economic stimulus and revive America's concern for public property. The current proposal is simply too narrow. Women represent almost half the work force -- not exactly a marginal special interest group. By adding a program for jobs in libraries, schools and children's programs, the new administration can create jobs for them, too. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HADLEY HOOPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); PARAEDUCATORS (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (76%); MEN (73%); MAYORS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); CHILD CARE (67%); LIBRARIANS (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (62%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



318 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Rescue U.S. Automakers Is Moving Ahead

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Reporting was contributed by David W. Chen from New York, Nick Bunkley and Bill Vlasic from Detroit, and Peter Baker from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House and Democratic Congressional leaders said Monday that they were close to agreeing on the terms of a $15 billion government rescue of the American automobile industry that would be directed by one or more appointees of President Bush and would impose expansive federal oversight of the auto companies. 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said she hoped that Mr. Bush's appointee -- or car czar, as the position has come to be known -- would not need to be replaced by President-elect Barack Obama, raising the prospect that the outgoing and incoming administrations would cooperate in selecting someone. 
 The president's designee would disburse the short-term emergency loans to General Motors and Chrysler, which are at risk of financial collapse, and would directly supervise the reorganization plans that the auto manufacturers have agreed to carry out in exchange for government aid. The government also could receive warrants that would give it equity stakes in the companies. 
 The Ford Motor Company announced Monday evening that it would not seek short-term federal aid, denying that it faced the same ''near-term liquidity issue'' as G.M. and Chrysler. 
 After a long weekend of drafting the auto bailout plan, Congressional Democrats on Monday afternoon delivered their draft bill to the White House, where senior officials quickly raised a number of concerns. The White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, said Mr. Bush would insist on aiding only those automakers that can survive long term. 
 ''Long-term financing must be conditioned on the principle that taxpayers should only assist automakers executing a credible plan for long-term viability,'' Ms. Perino said in a statement. ''We'll continue to work with members on both sides of the aisle to achieve legislation that protects the good faith investment by taxpayers.'' 
 Still, officials expressed optimism that they would reach a deal and that Congress would vote on the package this week. 
 The progress in the Washington talks helped lift the stock markets, which also benefited from strong rallies in Europe and Asia. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 3.5 percent, or nearly 300 points, to close at 8,934.18. 
 The shares of General Motors closed up 21 percent, while Ford's rose 24 percent. Chrysler is not a publicly traded company. 
 ''If there is a real desire to get this thing done and prevent adding another disaster to our economic situation, we should have it,'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and a main author of the plan, said at a news conference with Ms. Pelosi. ''There are a couple of specific issues to be negotiated. I think they can be worked out.'' 
 Officials declined to speculate who might fill the role of car czar, but the Democrats' legislation called for ''one or more officers from the executive branch with appropriate expertise in such areas as economic stabilization, financial aid to commerce and industry, financial restructuring, energy efficiency and environmental protection.''
 By Jan. 1, according to the draft bill, the car czar would be required to develop benchmarks for assessing the automakers' progress in carrying out the restructuring plans. The car czar would also have the power to convene meetings of an array of interested parties in the auto companies, including unions, creditors, suppliers, auto dealers and shareholders.
 The United Automobile Workers union, which has already agreed to make concessions to help the companies win government aid, has indicated it would be willing to consider further steps. One union local, in Charlotte, N.C., suggested on its Web site that the U.A.W. in exchange for givebacks would seek an equity stake in the form of a seat on the board of G.M. The companies will have until March 31 to submit long-term reorganization plans for government approval. If they fail to do so, the car czar could demand repayment of the emergency loans. 
 The White House may discover that finding someone with the right qualifications to accept the job will be a major challenge, especially with the narrow timeframe and the difficult decisions that must be made.
 Word that Democrats were willing to let Mr. Bush appoint the auto czar kicked off a guessing game over who might fit the bill. Two early names that were floated were Kenneth Feinberg, the lawyer who oversaw the 9/11 victims' compensation fund, and John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric. Both names were quickly dismissed by Ms. Pelosi.
 The White House had earlier proposed that the auto czar reside within the Commerce Department with the title of ''financial viability adviser.'' The Democrats' draft would seem to allow the administration to do just that, and would not require Senate confirmation for the post.
 The Democrats' draft legislation includes an array of stringent taxpayer protections. But perhaps the most symbolic gesture was a ban on the loan recipients' owning or leasing of private aircraft -- a stinging rebuke to the three auto chiefs who flew to Washington in their corporate jets in November to make their first, failed pitch for taxpayer assistance. 
 The bill also bars the companies from paying dividends to stockholders while the emergency loans are outstanding. It prohibits senior executives from receiving bonuses or golden parachute severance packages, and the bill gives the government the potential to take equity stakes in the companies through stock warrants so that taxpayers can benefit if the firms profit and the value of their shares increase in the future.Once a deal is set between Democrats and the Bush administration, it must win the support of at least 10 Senate Republicans. The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, was expected to voice an opinion on Tuesday.
 His support will be crucial. Until the new Congress is sworn in next month, Republicans retain a powerful minority in the Senate, where the auto plan will need 60 votes to advance. 
 The Democrats currently hold a 50 to 49 majority because two independents caucus with them; one seat is vacant because of Mr. Obama's resignation.
 Mr. McConnell, in comments on the Senate floor on Monday, nodded to some of his concerns. ''As we consider new legislation this week, we must first ensure that we do no harm to taxpayers later in our efforts to help any one particular industry now,'' he said. ''Troubled automakers cannot expect taxpayer help without a serious commitment to change their ways -- permanently.''
 Under the Democrats' proposal, the automakers would also have to grant access to their financial records and must seek permission from the car czar for any business transaction of $25 million or more. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Barney Frank, left, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, on Monday during a news conference on the proposed bailout of the Big Three automakers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



319 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: 3M Cuts 1,800 Jobs and Lowers Forecast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The 3M Company, which makes everything from Post-it Notes to Scotch Tape, lowered its 2008 earnings outlook on Monday. It also said its 2009 profit would fall below Wall Street expectations because of slowing revenue in the weakening economy. 
 The company said it would cut nearly 1,800 positions in the fourth quarter, mainly in the United States, Western Europe and Japan. The cuts are expected to save $170 million in 2009, and are in addition to the 1,000 jobs eliminated in the third quarter ended Sept. 30.
 The shares of 3M were down $2.47, or 4.13 percent, to $57.38 even as the broader markets surged.
 3M is looking at 500 more job cuts that will primarily affect the company's international business, the company's chief financial officer, Patrick D. Campbell, told analysts Monday at a presentation in New York.
 The manufacturer now expects earnings for 2008 at about $5.10 to $5.15 a share, down sharply from its previous estimate of $5.40 to $5.48 a share. Wall Street's average forecast was $5.43 a share, according to analysts surveyed by ThomsonReuters.
 Mr. Campbell offered a grim perspective of the future, saying the company would do minimal share repurchases and careful planning ''to make sure that we don't get our inventories out of whack.''
 3M has closed about 15 plants in the last 18 months and has drawn down inventory, cut capital spending and made other moves to cut costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (70%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (98%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (98%); MMM (NYSE) (98%); MMM (FRA) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (98%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (98%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



320 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words

 BODY:
AUTO LOAN PLAN ADVANCES A $15 billion government rescue of the American automobile industry is near, to be overseen by one or more presidential appointees. 
 Not since President Harry Truman battled the steel mills in 1952 has Washington tinkered with nationalization, or its equivalent. News Analysis: David E. Sanger. [A1.] 
 An effort by General Motors to improve its message in Washington meant enlisting its blunt-spoken vice chairman, Robert Lutz, to end any confusion. [B1.]
 The Big 3 have told Congress they must cut back on dealerships, but some dealers are likely to fight a forced shutdown. [B6.]
 Ford Motor Company is halting production on its assembly line in Russia. [B6.] 
 LENO EXPECTED TO STAY AT NBCNBC is expected to announce Tuesday that Jay Leno, left, will be the host of a program like the ''Tonight Show'' weeknights at 10 p.m. starting in the fall of 2009. NBC had been concerned that Mr. Leno would go to a rival network. [A1.]
 BIGGER LOSSES FOR FANNIE MAE? Some analysts are worried that Fannie Mae's holdings of what were thought to be safer home mortgages is deteriorating. [B7.] 
 BANKRUPTCY FOR TRIBUNE Crumbling advertising revenue, the poor economy and competition from the Web have forced the Tribune Company to file for bankruptcy protection to restructure its debt. [A1.]
 The people and companies that helped Tribune get into this mess made millions. But the Tribune's employees have gained little so far. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [B1.]
 EMERGENCY IN THE E.R. More and more of the nation's unemployed and uninsured are seeking medical care in emergency rooms, which doctors say is overburdening their ability to properly treat their patients. [B1.] 
 NO BONUS BONANZA Many banks are revamping the way they pay bonuses to their employees. [B1.]
 DOWNTURN IN ADVERTISING The advertising industry is bracing for the possibility of the first two consecutive yearly declines in spending since the early days of the Great Depression. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B1.]
 NO MORE PASSWORDS A panel has recommended the federal government equip all of its computers with a device to gain access. [B5.]
 REDEEMING UNUSED MILES As airlines have made it hard to redeem accumulated miles for tickets, many travelers are using the miles for gifts and hotels. [B4.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); BONUS PAY (69%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



321 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Surges on Stimulus Hopes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and DAVID JOLLY; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
Stocks moved sharply higher on Monday as Wall Street extended a global rally amid redoubled efforts to try to revive the economy -- including President-elect Barack Obama's pledge for broad infrastructure spending and signs that the government will bail out Detroit's troubled automakers. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average traded above 9,000 before closing up 298.76 points, or 3.46 percent, at 8,934.18. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 33.63 points, or 3.8 percent, to close at 909.70.
 The Nasdaq rose 62.43 points, or 4.14 percent, to 1,571.74.
 Some notable investors, including a longtime market watcher, Laszlo Birinyi Jr., have gone so far as to call a bottom in the stock market, zeroing in on the 750 level hit by the S.& P. in late November. But worries that the recession has entered a fiercer phase re-emerged last week, and some investors speculated that the sudden surge of buying was merely a temporary reprieve. 
 Regardless of what comes next, Monday's rally can be viewed as a sign that investors are willing to buy into equities despite a drumbeat of bad news. The Tribune Company, the venerable newspaper giant, filed for bankruptcy in the early afternoon, and earnings reports from a range of industries have been discouraging of late.
 But shares of Detroit's automakers surged on Monday, with shares of General Motors and Ford Motor gaining more than 20 percent after reports that an imminent deal in Washington would provide some sort of federal aid to the Big Three. 
 Although American stocks were extending a rally from last week, their gains paled in comparison with stocks in Hong Kong, Frankfurt and Paris, all of which rose about 8 percent. Indexes in Britain and Tokyo were up about 6 percent after several major world governing bodies announced a new round of financial stimulus packages.
 Commodity prices moved higher after weeks of declines, with oil prices gaining $2.90 to settle at $43.71 a barrel in New York. 
 Some analysts speculated that demand for oil and energy products would increase after the United States embarks on the ambitious public works program proposed by Mr. Obama over the weekend.
 Other world governments also announced big stimulus packages. India said it would begin a round of tax cuts and spending plans after its central bank lowered interest rates. Chinese policy makers opened an annual economic conference in Beijing on Monday that is expected to focus on measures to increase consumption.
 Valerie Cazaban, a fund manager at Stratege Finance in Paris, said stocks had a temporary jolt from the proposed stimulus measures but that there was no change to the underlying sentiment. ''Stocks are up for the moment,'' she said, but ''the market is still in a bear trend.'' 
 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, ended up 8.8 percent.
 Interest rates rose slightly. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 18/32, to 108 24/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was 2.74 percent, up from 2.70 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily stock market activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); ENERGY DEMAND (60%); TAX LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



322 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 518 words

 BODY:
Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
 I recently asked whether the world was poised to enter a ''trance'' on climate policy, given the focus on economic turmoil and the plunge in oil prices. Now Maxwell Boykoff of Oxford has looked at climate coverage over the last four years in 50 newspapers in 20 countries (along with a colleague, Maria Mansfield) and finds that the news media may have entered it already. 
 ''It does seem like stagnation or decreasing coverage,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''I'm curious about links between that and possible interpretations by negotiators of decreased public pressure to put forward a strong agreement leading into Copenhagen,'' where the United Nations Climate Change Conference is to start next November.
 Of course, the burst of coverage in 2007, surrounding the release of the fourth report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, could be seen as the journalistic equivalent of a global heat wave propelled by El Nino warming -- creating a peak that distorts a trend. 
 TierneyLab
 From John Tierney's blog, nytimes.com/tierneylab.
 Some researchers in substance-abuse treatment are alarmed at reports that Representative Jim Ramstad, Republican of Minnesota, may be the White House's next drug czar -- the director of the office of National Drug Control Policy.
 In a joint letter to President-elect Barack Obama, they write: ''This country needs a drug czar who supports evidence-based policies and one who will make decisions based on science, not politics or ideology.'' These critics fault Mr. Ramstad for opposing syringe-exchange programs, as well as efforts to stop the arrest of patients who use medical marijuana.
 Those positions put Mr. Ramstad at odds with campaign pledges made by Mr. Obama, as noted in another joint letter to him from the Drug Policy Alliance and more than three dozen other organizations. They urge him to reject Mr. Ramstad and instead nominate a drug czar with a public-health background ''who is able to show strong leadership on the issues you believe in.''
 Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 Seventy is the new 57.
 Researchers from the University of Michigan and the Max-Planck Institute for Human Development in Berlin surveyed 516 people ages 70 to 104, asking such questions as how old they typically feel compared with the age on their birth certificate. Individual responses varied, but the average gap between chronological age and subjective age was 13 years. Among participants who were particularly healthy and active, the gap was even wider.
 Researchers say the data are important because cultural expectations of people during their older years often are at odds with how seniors perceive themselves.
 As children, we typically feel slightly older than we really are, but around age 25 to 30 we begin to think of ourselves as younger. Other studies have shown that people between 40 and 70 feel about 20 percent younger than they really are.
 From Wesley: There's really only one bad thing about getting older: the older I get, the faster time passes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); WEATHER (77%); EL NINO & LA NINA (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); CANNABIS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (66%); HERBAL MEDICINE (65%); CHILDREN (63%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (56%); OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (54%)

PERSON: JIM RAMSTAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN F TIERNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



323 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Richardson Relishes Role As a Closer on Big Deals

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Michael Haederle contributed reporting from Albuquerque.

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M. 

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico has a reputation for doing whatever it takes to cajole companies to invest here in his home state, from giving movie producers his private phone number to building a special water-treatment plant for a cheese company.
 A darling of business leaders, Mr. Richardson likes to become involved in the fine details of each project, often using his considerable powers of persuasion to seal deals with investors with a handshake. 
 ''He's the ideal closer,'' said Rick Homans, a longtime aide. ''We would set it up and he would close it.''
 In his six years as governor, Mr. Richardson, whom President-elect Barack Obama has chosen to be commerce secretary, has created 80,000 jobs while revamping this impoverished state's economy. 
 The governor has created a thriving film industry here from scratch and has nurtured a fledgling solar-energy sector, mostly through tax breaks for investors. 
 He has also persuaded several light manufacturers to set up shop, attracted investments from high-tech companies, built a commuter railroad and transformed a sleepy border crossing into a transportation hub to increase trade with Mexico. 
 In perhaps his biggest gamble, Mr. Richardson has procured financing for a spaceport in southern New Mexico, called Spaceport America, from which he envisions tourists departing on cruises beyond the atmosphere.
 ''Just about every project he put on the table was big and visionary and cost a lot of money,'' said Terri Cole, the president of the Greater Albuquerque Chamber of Commerce. ''He's not one to spend a lot of time on small projects.''
 It remains to be seen whether Mr. Richardson can do something similar on the national level. Mr. Obama has said he wants his commerce secretary to play a pivotal role in salvaging the economy, and aides to Mr. Richardson say they expect that he will try to expand the traditional role of the office. 
 ''He's going to elevate this office to a level of importance that it genuinely deserves during this economic crisis,'' said Mr. Homans, who is the state tax commissioner. ''He's going to be, in some respects, reinventing the Department of Commerce.''
 Mr. Richardson said at a news conference here on Thursday that he would apply to the national economy some of the same principles he used to create jobs in New Mexico. ''Obviously,'' he said, ''we need to rebuild America's economy, domestically and internationally, create jobs and get ourselves out of this stagnant situation.''
 But economists and political opponents point out that Mr. Richardson has benefited from record-high oil and natural gas prices during his tenure as governor. As a result, state coffers were overflowing with revenue from taxes on oil and gas production. 
 The surpluses allowed Mr. Richardson to cut the personal income tax nearly in half his first year in office and still give tax breaks to manufacturers and offer filmmakers a 25-cent tax rebate for every dollar they spent on a production in New Mexico. 
 The oil and gas revenue also made it easier to finance big projects, like the $225 million spaceport and a $400 million commuter railroad from south of Albuquerque to Santa Fe. 
 Economists say that job growth, too, owed a lot to the boom in the oil and natural gas fields. With the price of oil plummeting, the growth in jobs has leveled off here, and a projected $500 million shortfall has opened up in the state budget. 
 Still, no one doubts the state would be worse off in the current recession had it not been for Mr. Richardson's success in attracting investment and creating jobs. 
 Business leaders whom Mr. Richardson has wooed say he is a tough negotiator, hard to resist one on one. 
 Gerald J. Fine, the president of Schott North America, recalled how in January Mr. Richardson, who was then running for president, took the time to personally negotiate a deal under which Schott would build a $100 million plant in Albuquerque to make solar energy panels. 
 ''It was the only time I've ever been given a presidential candidate's cellphone number by a presidential candidate,'' Mr. Fine said.
 Just before the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Richardson met with the company's board chairman, Udo Ungeheuer, at a hotel in Concord. 
 After they went over the fine points of the agreement, Mr. Richardson, a physically imposing man, suddenly stood, reached a big hand over the table and asked, ''Do we have a deal?'' Mr. Ungeheuer was taken aback, but a few seconds later shook on it, according to people who were present. 
 ''The way the deal was sealed was with a handshake, and he made sure he got that handshake before he left the room,'' said Mr. Fine, still sounding somewhat incredulous. ''We built a plant in New Mexico on the basis of a handshake.'' 
 Some of Mr. Richardson's detractors, however, say he can be overbearing and vicious when he does not get his way. He enjoys the limelight that comes from his visionary pronouncements, they say, and he is impatient with opponents. 
 ''It's his way or the highway,'' said the State Senate president pro tem, Timothy Z. Jennings, a Democrat who has clashed with the governor over spending. ''Anyone who dares to differ with him, he doesn't take very well.''
 Nonetheless, the growth of the film industry in New Mexico attests to Mr. Richardson's skills as a salesman and deal-closer. 
 Shortly after taking office in 2003, the governor went to Hollywood to meet with the heads of major studios. ''To a person, their mouths were agape, as if to say, 'Is this guy really here?' '' recalled Eric Witt, a deputy chief of staff.
 But Mr. Richardson has lured producers, one by one, from large Hollywood studios to New Mexico with tax abatements and personal pressure. 
 He urges producers to call him directly in case they run into hurdles in procuring permits, visits the sets and regularly holds dinners for actors and producers at the governor's mansion. Since 2003, more than 115 feature films and television series have been made here, among them the Oscar-winning ''No Country for Old Men.'' 
 ''Richardson was smart enough to see this would work,'' said Nick Smerigan, who heads the newly built Albuquerque Studios, several large soundstages on the desert flatlands. ''He did it methodically, slowly, understanding the beast.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico has created a thriving film industry in the state, luring moviemakers like Albuquerque Studios. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, DAVID LIENEMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); SOLAR ENERGY (53%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: CHEESE CO LTD (72%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



324 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: F.D.R. Knew How to Spend Carefully

BYLINE: By NICK TAYLOR. 
Nick Taylor is the author of ''American-Made: The Enduring Legacy of the W.P.A.''

 BODY:
THE plan by Barack Obama to attack unemployment by putting people to work on roads, bridges, schools and new energy projects sounds like a version of the New Deal's Works Progress Administration. If Franklin D. Roosevelt is Mr. Obama's model, and if the president-elect wants to avoid the disorganized hodgepodge that the financial bailout seems to be so far, then he should look to the structure created for the W.P.A. in 1935 to select the best plans for renovating the country's outdated infrastructure. 
 Two years into his first term, Roosevelt decided that he could no longer fight joblessness with piecemeal and temporary programs. Putting people to work was Roosevelt's first goal, but he also envisioned using a big spending program -- $4.8 billion, or more than $76 billion today -- to rebuild America. He created a three-step process for reviewing how the money would be spent. 
 Cities and states were begging for money to hire jobless citizens to build public works. Today's collapsed bridges, urban gridlock and clogged air transport system had their parallels in the 1930s in mud tracks, cities unprepared for the automobile, and a dearth of airports. Many rural areas had no running water or electricity. Schools, hospitals, courthouses, city halls, recreation centers, water treatment plants -- all stood high on the wish lists of local and state governments. At the same time, federal agencies wanted to build armories and dams and refurbish military bases with inexpensive labor. 
 These local governments and federal agencies deluged the W.P.A. with project applications, which were screened for feasibility and the adequacy of supporting documents like blueprints, cost estimates and planning studies. 
 Those that survived passed on to the second step in the process, a huge advisory committee that met at least once a week. Its members included government officials and representatives of farm groups, labor, business and the United States Conference of Mayors. Their job was to identify redundancy among the applications and to provide money to the best and most cost-effective projects. 
 Step 3 was a division that kept track of projects through their completion. 
 Under the leadership of Harry Hopkins, the W.P.A. took a mandate to do small projects and literally remade America. The W.P.A.'s workers, who numbered around 3.5 million at their peak, gave the country a new infrastructure that kept pace with emerging commerce and technology. At the same time their paychecks lubricated the economy.
 Mr. Obama has similar goals in mind. His plan to hire Americans for work like, as he put it last month, ''rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, modernizing schools that are failing our children and building wind farms and solar panels, fuel-efficient cars and the alternative energy technologies that can free us from our dependence on foreign oil'' will benefit the economy and build tangible public works at the same time. 
 The challenge for Mr. Obama, as it was for Roosevelt, will be to do the job efficiently, to avoid a jumble of projects that help cities and states but don't improve the national picture. It's not enough for the president and the Congress to just spend money. Local governments will be scrambling for dollars and showering plans on Washington. 
 Well-coordinated screening can make sure that the projects that go forward are the right ones. Chris Dodd, the Democratic senator from Connecticut, wants to create a national infrastructure bank with a bipartisan board of directors, to be run by an executive appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. That structure resembles the one that guided Roosevelt's W.P.A. Mr. Obama could do a lot worse than looking back as he moves the country forward. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); MAYORS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); BAILOUTS (71%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (65%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



325 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: In a New Tux, Obama Seeks the Proper Tone

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama has ordered his first new tuxedo in 15 years for his inaugural celebration. And he has invited the marching band from Punahou School, his high school in Hawaii, to join the parade. (Nearly 1,400 bands have applied; only a few dozen are chosen.)
 Plans for Mr. Obama's inauguration on Jan. 20 are slowly taking shape.
 But with increasing numbers of people out of work and American soldiers enmeshed in two wars, inaugural planners face the task of keeping the tone respectful while still celebrating Mr. Obama's achievement. 
 ''There's no question that people are in tough times,'' said Linda Douglass, a spokeswoman for Mr. Obama's inaugural committee. ''But we hope that this will be an event in which we celebrate our common values and shared aspirations.'' She added, ''What we are looking to achieve is a tone that is hopeful.''
 Mr. Obama formed his inauguration committee only recently, and it has yet to establish a schedule for the day or reveal what events it may be planning after the noon swearing-in ceremony on the West Front of the Capitol.
 Much of the day is pro forma, but presidents like to tailor the details on everything from selecting the marching bands to which inaugural balls will be designated as official. And all will be dissected for meaning.
 Among the options to have this year's events reflect the mood of the nation, Democratic officials said, are having Mr. Obama and Vice President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. take part in some form of community service in Washington. If they did so, they would most likely call upon people around the country to do the same in their own towns, which could help mitigate any criticism of inaugural celebrations.
 The Obama team has been fairly consistent in its staging of events and could use as its model the election night rally in Grant Park in Chicago -- a celebratory but serious gathering, striking in its simplicity, at which Mr. Obama tried to raise hopes but not expectations.
 It could also borrow ideas from inaugurals past, like Bill Clinton's procession to Washington from Thomas Jefferson's home at Monticello in 1993, which Mr. Clinton used to convey a connection with Jefferson's populism.
 The swearing-in of the first black president will be a historic occasion, and Washington is expecting the largest attendance ever for an inaugural, way beyond the record of 1.2 million who reportedly showed up for Lyndon Johnson in 1965. For the first time, the full length of the Mall will be opened to accommodate the crowd.
 Stars will descend on Washington, automatically ratcheting up the glamour. Oprah Winfrey is planning to conduct at least one show from the Kennedy Center during inaugural week and give a gala party. (Her Web site says it is no longer accepting reservations for the show.)
 It is not clear if Mr. Obama or his wife, Michelle, will appear with Ms. Winfrey or to what extent they will socialize with celebrities at all; Mr. Obama was careful to keep Hollywood at arm's length during the campaign, especially after the Republicans branded him a ''celebrity.'' Still, Barbra Streisand, for one, raised $9 million for him in September in Beverly Hills and may be expecting at least an invitation, if not face time with him onstage, in return.
 Most inaugurals showcase musical acts, and several major artists, including Bruce Springsteen, Stevie Wonder, will.i.am, Beyonce and Alicia Keyes, have been mentioned for possible concerts. 
 Some observers say that in terms of staging, less is more. Aaron Sorkin, creator of ''The West Wing,'' said that the events should speak for themselves.
 ''There should be an absolute minimum of stagecraft,'' Mr. Sorkin said. ''The setting itself is pretty theatrical.''
 Some old Washington hands agree that even if events are not elaborate, the atmosphere should be festive. 
 ''We need it,'' said Letitia Baldrige, White House social secretary to Jacqueline Kennedy and longtime arbiter of taste in Washington. ''It's a great historical moment.''
 But the recession and war make it more difficult for Mr. Obama to celebrate without appearing insensitive or indulgent.
 ''You want the appropriate symbolism that goes with the inauguration of a new president,'' said the presidential historian Robert Dallek. ''Obama impresses me as a very intelligent politician who has been so in tune with the mood of the country that I can't imagine he would be so ham-handed as to be unmindful of this, but it would be a gross error to have some kind of huge celebration that seems profligate.''
 The Obama sense of stagecraft came in for rare criticism during the Democratic National Convention in Denver, when a set of Greek columns dominated the stage at Invesco Field for his address. Republicans took the opportunity to portray Mr. Obama as more show than substance, with an outsize ego to boot.
 Robert Schmuhl, who teaches American studies at Notre Dame and is the author of ''Statecraft and Stagecraft,'' said that while the inaugural planners had to walk a fine line, the act of ushering in the first black president would be so dramatic in itself that little extra fanfare would be necessary. 
 ''You don't need to import artificial Greek columns to heighten the drama,'' he said.
 There will be inaugural balls, but it is not clear how many will be official. That number has been rising over the last decades, with Mr. Clinton topping out at 14 in 1997; George W. Bush scaled back to nine in 2005, but his was still the most expensive inauguration, costing $42.3 million in private money.
 Trying to curb the influence of money in government, Mr. Obama has banned contributions to his inaugural from lobbyists and corporations and is limiting individual contributions to $50,000. 
 But dozens of unofficial balls and parties are being planned all over town. Their tone will be beyond the control of the Obama team, and they are likely to be less restrained than official events, especially since the District of Columbia is allowing bars to stay open until 5 a.m., which is beyond normal closing times, for four nights.
 It is these galas to which the words ''lavish'' and ''raucous'' will almost certainly be applied. One, hosted by the Creative Coalition and seeking corporate sponsorships of up to $150,000, will feature Elvis Costello. Another, hosted by the Impact Film Fund at Fur nightclub and seeking sponsorships of $100,000, is headlined by Kanye West. MTV is also hosting a show, to be broadcast, with Dionne Warwick, and the Human Rights Campaign is planning a party with Cyndi Lauper.
 Mr. Obama is starting to put his own touches on the day. His new tuxedo is from Hart Schaffner Marx, a menswear firm based in Chicago that uses union labor, according to Bruce Raynor, president of Unite Here, which represents apparel workers. (The news was first reported by WWD.) From his conversations, which include some with Mr. Obama, Mr. Raynor said he expected the inaugural to be ''upbeat and optimistic, not opulent or excessive.''
 John Shaffner, chairman of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, who has staged the Emmys and helped design the Republican convention earlier this year, said the most important elements in a production like this were ''simplicity and utility.'' The Republicans' pared-down event this year helped them keep their convention focused, he said.
 As for atmospherics, some in the Obama camp want to emulate the election night rally in Grant Park. The set was draped in blue cloth and lined with American flags. There were no fireworks. The music -- ''The Patriot,'' by John Williams -- was majestic.
 ''Grant Park had a very respectful feel, respect for him, for the country, for each other,'' said one Democrat familiar with the inaugural committee's deliberations who was not authorized to speak publicly. ''There were none of the edgier emotions that you find at the end of a long political campaign.'' 
 Indeed, the attempt to salve such wounds is part of the point of inaugural celebrations.
 ''The importance of the inauguration is that the new president can provide a sense of unity after a divisive campaign,'' said Donald Ritchie, an associate historian of the Senate. ''So the trappings of the inaugural are useful for the national psyche. If you cut it down too drastically, you lose some of the opportunity that the inauguration affords.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about plans for the inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama misspelled the surname of a singer who may give a concert. She is Alicia Keys, not Keyes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Military Academy cadets marching out of the Capitol grounds in the inaugural parade for Dwight D. Eisenhower in January 1953.(THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) HAWAII, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



326 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Crippled by Debt, Tribune Co. Seeks Bankruptcy Protection

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; Reporting was contributed by Tim Arango, Rebecca Cathcart, Michael J. de la Merced, Zachery Kouwe, Susan Saulny and Andrew Ross Sorkin.

 BODY:
The Tribune Company, the newspaper and television chain that publishes The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday.
The move came less than a year after Samuel Zell, a Chicago real estate tycoon, took control of the Tribune chain and took on most of the $13 billion debt burden that now threatens to cripple it in the face of a sinking economy and a collapse in advertising.
Mr. Zell said the company had enough cash to continue operating its 12 newspapers, 23 television stations, national cable channel and assorted other media holdings, and the company insisted that the filing would have no effect on employees' payroll and benefits, or on the vast majority of their retirement accounts.
But in light of its shrinking cash flow, Tribune decided to file for bankruptcy in a Delaware court, with the urging of some of its major creditors who met with Tribune representatives over the previous three days. 
The recession and the shift of advertising to the Internet have hit newspapers with the sharpest drop in advertising revenue since the Depression -- Tribune's papers were down 19 percent in the third quarter -- and some major newspapers have defaulted on debt or been put up for sale, with no takers. But Tribune's problems were made significantly worse by the unusual $8.2 billion deal put together last year by Mr. Zell, which took the company private and nearly tripled its debt load, driving the company deeper into debt than any other major newspaper publisher.
The company has cut its staff and products, deeply and repeatedly, in an attempt to stay ahead of debt payments. In May, it also sold one of its most profitable newspapers, Newsday, to Cablevision for $650 million.
Tribune faces more than $900 million in interest payments over the next year, and a $512 million principal payment due in June.
Tribune filed under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code, which allows it to continue operating while negotiating with lenders to try and reduce its interest payments and possibly its debt.
The unusually heavy debt burden means Tribune's bankruptcy is not a harbinger for the newspaper industry, said Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst at the Poynter Institute. ''He took on a huge amount of debt at just the wrong time,'' he said of Mr. Zell.
The bankruptcy came together in just a few days, largely to protect the position of banks that hold the bulk of Tribune's debt, according to people briefed on the talks between them, who were given anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Those banks hold Tribune's senior secured loans -- that is, the first in line to be paid in a bankruptcy -- but the company also has junior debts, including a $69.55 million payment that was due on Monday.
On Friday, these people said, Mr. Zell called a meeting with the main senior creditors, including Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and Citigroup, and warned that continuing to pay the junior debt reduced the company's ability to pay senior creditors later on. In meetings over the weekend, the banks reluctantly advised bankruptcy. The company said it did not make the $69.55 million payment on Monday.
In a note sent to Tribune employees, Mr. Zell cited the state of the industry and the economy, saying, ''It has been, to say the least, the perfect storm,'' which has made it ''extremely difficult to support our debt.'' But he did not refer to the role of last year's deal in creating most of that debt.
The deal created an employee stock ownership plan, which bought all of Tribune's stock and made the company tax-exempt. That made the employees the titular owners of the company, but they had no say in the matter and have no control over its management. They were promised the possibility of gaining access to their shares and cashing them in several years in the future, but in a bankruptcy, share values are often wiped out.
Mr. Zell, who put up just $315 million of the purchase price, gained control, and the right to buy as much as 40 percent of Tribune's stock in the future.
A note on an internal Tribune Company Web site said, ''All ongoing severance payments, deferred compensation and other payments to former employees have been discontinued and will be the subject of later proceedings before the court.'' That made it apparent that employees who recently were laid off or took buyouts would join the long list of unsecured creditors.
James Gerstenzang, a reporter who left The Los Angeles Times's bureau in Washington last month, said he was trying to figure out whether he was one of those people. He said he had just sent in the last paperwork to approve his expected buyout payment -- 49 weeks of pay, after more than 24 years.
''What, I'm supposed to be shocked that Sam Zell isn't keeping his word?'' he asked. ''This was their commitment and their credibility.''
A crucial part of Tribune's strategy for surviving the next year has been to raise cash by selling the Chicago Cubs and its stadium, Wrigley Field, but that effort has been delayed. The company excluded the Cubs and the stadium from the bankruptcy filing, so that it could press ahead with a sale that it hopes will reap more than $1 billion.
The bankruptcy filing ''will take pressure off our operations,'' Mr. Zell said in a statement. ''This restructuring focuses on our debt, not on our operations.''
But bankruptcy -- a rare step for a big newspaper company -- calls into question the future shape of a company with more than $4 billion a year in revenue and thousands of employees.
James H. M. Sprayregen, a bankruptcy lawyer at Kirkland & Ellis, said companies will often choose to file for bankruptcy when it becomes clear that they will eventually need protection, even if they are making their debt payments. ''It obviously wasn't an emergency or they would have filed Sunday night,'' he said. ''They chose a time that was financially advantageous.''
Tribune arranged for $50 million in credit from Barclays, and an agreement with Barclays to continue a $300 million line of credit, on which it has already drawn $225 million.
In addition to the banks, the major creditors listed in the bankruptcy filing are hedge funds that hold Tribune loans. The largest individual creditor listed is Mark H. Willes, former chief executive of Times Mirror, the Los Angeles-based newspaper company bought by Tribune in 2000, who the filing says is owed $11.2 million in retirement benefits and deferred pay.
Mr. Zell took control of the company on Dec. 20, 2007, and installed top managers who, like him, had no background in newspapers. They vowed to shake up the company. But Tribune's results kept declining like those of the industry as a whole. The company had a profit of $37.1 million in the third quarter -- down from $216.8 million in the year-earlier quarter -- and a $26.2 million loss on its newspapers.
In the Los Angeles Times newsroom, word of the bankruptcy brought few words of surprise.
''I think people are pretty disgusted by the direction things have gone,'' said Mitchell Landsberg, a reporter. ''There's no love lost between the employees here and Sam Zell.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Samuel Zell, head of Tribune.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Zell's Troubled Empire: Sam Zell's takeover last year of the Tribune Company saddled the company with billions of dollars of debt. As revenue fell and credit conditions tightened, that debt grew difficult to service.
NEWSPAPERS: The Chicago Tribune CIRCULATION 516,032 Budget cuts in June included 80 newsroom jobs. One month later, the editor in chief resigned, saying new management should have an editor ''compatible with their style and goals.'' The Los Angeles Times CIRCULATION 739,147 A group of current and former reporters filed a class-action suit against Mr. Zell in September, saying he had acted without regard to the long-term health of the company. The Tribune Company also owns seven other English-language papers with a combined circulation of almost one million, including The Baltimore Sun, The South Florida Sun-Sentinel, The Orlando Sentinel and The Hartford Courant, as well as three Spanish-language papers.
SPORTS TEAM: The Chicago Cubs 2008 ATTENDANCE 3.3 million Mr. Zell has not managed to sell the baseball club, which he hoped to use to pay down part of his $8.2 billion takeover of the Tribune Company last year.
MULTIMEDIA: KTLA-TV Los Angeles DAILY VIEWERS 76,000 KTLA is the Los Angeles affiliate of the CW Television Network, a joint venture between CBS and Warner Brothers that caters to women ages 18 to 34. WPIX-TV New York DAILY VIEWERS 128,000 Founded in 1948, it is one of the oldest independent television stations in New York. Now the New York affiliate of the CW Television Network.(Sources: Audit Bureau of Circulations
Arbitron
 Nielsen) Chart details various media company profiles. (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BASEBALL (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CASH FLOW (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); GOING PRIVATE (65%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); CHICAGO CUBS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



327 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Workers Pay For Debacle At Tribune

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
 Sam Zell acknowledged from the start that his deal for the Tribune Company was flawed. 
 ''I'm here to tell you that the transaction from hell is done,'' Mr. Zell said last December when he sealed his $8.2 billion takeover of the publisher of The Chicago Tribune and The Los Angeles Times. 
 But just how hellish this deal was, particularly for Tribune employees, became painfully clear on Monday when the 161-year-old company filed for bankruptcy. 
 There is a lot of blame to go around, and much of it will be directed at Mr. Zell, the real estate baron whose knack for buying when everyone else is selling earned him a fit sobriquet for the news business these days: The Grave Dancer. 
 Advertising is in a free fall, and every newspaper is suffering. But Mr. Zell literally mortgaged the future of Tribune's employees to pursue what one analyst, Jack Newman, at the time called ''a childhood fantasy.'' 
 Mr. Zell financed much of his deal's $13 billion of debt by borrowing against part of the future of his employees' pension plan and taking a huge tax advantage. Tribune employees ended up with equity, and now they will probably be left with very little. (The good news: any pension money put aside before the deal remains for the employees.) 
 As Mr. Newman, an analyst at CreditSights, explained at the time: ''If there is a problem with the company, most of the risk is on the employees, as Zell will not own Tribune shares.'' He continued: ''The cash will come from the sweat equity of the employees of Tribune.''
 And so it is. 
 Granted, Mr. Zell, 67, put up some money. He invested $315 million in the form of subordinated debt in exchange for a warrant to buy 40 percent of Tribune in the future for $500 million. It is unclear how much he'll lose, but one thing is clear: when creditors get in line, he gets to stand ahead of the employees.
 Mr. Zell isn't the only one responsible for this debacle. With one of the grand old names of American journalism now confronting an uncertain future, it is worth remembering all the people who mismanaged the company before hand and helped orchestrate this ill-fated deal -- and made a lot of money in the process. They include members of the Tribune board, the company's management and the bankers who walked away with millions of dollars for financing and advising on a transaction that many of them knew, or should have known, could end in ruin.
 It was Tribune's board that sold the company to Mr. Zell -- and allowed him to use the employee's pension plan to do so. Despite early resistance, Dennis J. FitzSimons, then the company's chief executive, backed the plan. He was paid about $17.7 million in severance and other payments. The sale also bought all the shares he owned -- $23.8 million worth. The day he left, he said in a note to employees that ''completing this 'going private' transaction is a great outcome for our shareholders, employees and customers.'' 
 Well, at least for some of them.
 Tribune's board was advised by a group of bankers from Citigroup and Merrill Lynch, which walked off with $35.8 million and $37 million, respectively. But those banks played both sides of the deal: they also lent Mr. Zell the money to buy the company. For that, they shared an additional $47 million pot of fees with several other banks, according to ThomsonReuters. And then there was Morgan Stanley, which wrote a ''fairness opinion'' blessing the deal, for which it was paid a $7.5 million fee (plus an additional $2.5 million advisory fee).
 On top of that, a firm called the Valuation Research Corporation wrote a ''solvency opinion'' suggesting that Tribune could meet its debt covenants. Thomson Reuters, which tracks fees, estimates V.R.C. was paid $1 million for that opinion. V.R.C. was so enamored with its role that it put out a press release. 
 In some corners of the world, you could arguably applaud Tribune's board for selling the company when they did. The Chandler family, which owned 12 percent of Tribune through its previous sale of Times Mirror, campaigned for a sale and eventually won, though the family accepted a much lower price than they had hoped. 
 You could even call them prescient, having sold before the financial crisis and economic downturn that has put so many companies in harm's way. And at $34 a share, Tribune shareholders did well. The share price of the company's closest rival, the McClatchy Company, has tumbled 84 percent since the Tribune deal closed.
 But what about those employees? They had no seat at the table when the company's own board let Mr. Zell use part of its future pension plan in exchange for $34 a share.
 Mr. Newman, the analyst who predicted the trouble, said in an interview on Monday, ''The employees were put in a very bad situation.'' He added that while boards are typically only responsible to their shareholders, this situation may be different. ''There has to be a balance,'' he said, ''to create sustainability for all the stakeholders.''
 Dan Neil, a Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for The Los Angeles Times, led a lawsuit with other Tribune employees against Mr. Zell and Tribune this fall. The suit contended ''through both the structure of his takeover and his subsequent conduct, Zell and his accessories have diminished the value of the employee-owned company to benefit himself and his fellow board members.'' 
 If the employees win, they will become Tribune creditors -- and stand in line with all other creditors in bankruptcy court.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Trouble for Tribune: A short history of Samuel Zell's takeover of the Tribune Company and the factors that led to its bankruptcy filing Monday. Chart details the following: A new chief executive: Mr. Zell makes himself chief executive after completing an $8.2 billion deal that turns the Tribune Company into a privately held operation, paying shareholders $34 a share. Mr. Zell takes on nearly $13 billion in debt in the process.
Employees protest JANUARY 2008: The Los Angeles Times's highest-ranking editor, James E. O'Shea, is forced out for refusing to cut costs in the form of newsroom jobs, the fourth time in less than three years that the highest-ranking editor or the publisher has left for that reason.
Paper cuts: As newspaper circulations decline and ad revenues decrease, the Tribune Company cuts its budget and staff in newsrooms around the U.S., including 400 to 500 cuts companywide, focusing on corporate staff and Tribune newspapers.
Seeking cash: The Tribune sells one of its most profitable newspapers, Newsday, for $650 million -- precisely the kind of move Mr. Zell had said he did not want to make. ''We didn't do this deal to figure out what to get rid of,'' he told The Chicago Tribune in 2007.
Trying to unload assets: The global credit crisis and other factors forestall Mr. Zell's efforts to sell the Chicago Cubs baseball team
the team's stadium, Wrigley Field
and the company's share in a regional cable sports network. Such a deal would have brought the company more than $1 billion in cash.
 Bankrupt: The Tribune Company files for bankruptcy protection. In a court filing, Tribune said it still had nearly $13 billion in debt, compared with $7.6 billion in assets. Barclays, one of its existing lenders, has agreed to amend an existing $300 million financing facility, as well as to provide a $50 million letter of credit. (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); BASEBALL (79%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); JOURNALISM (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (93%); DENNIS J FITZSIMONS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008



328 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: In Election's Wake, Campaigns Offer a Peek at What Really Happened

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: LAWRENCE, Kan. 

 BODY:
The setting was a post-election presidential campaign conference at the Robert J. Dole Institute of Politics at the University of Kansas last week, and you didn't need nameplates to guess who worked for John McCain and who worked for Barack Obama.
 The McCain team was certainly game, its two representatives doing their best to endure a no-doubt squirm-inducing ritual as they absorbed question after question about everything that they had done wrong. ''We could spend many sessions talking about the strategy of the McCain campaign because we had so many of them,'' said Christian Ferry, Mr. McCain's deputy campaign manager.
 Mr. Obama's representatives were the victorious bright-eyed stars of the day, answering question after question about what they did right.
 ''Your campaign was even better than I thought it was from afar,'' said Ed Rollins, a longtime Republican strategist who this year was a senior adviser to Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor who sought the Republican nomination. ''We have a long, long way to catch up.'' 
 These after-the-election presidential campaign panels -- in which campaign managers, pollsters, media consultants and other strategists talk about what they did and why they did it -- have become a regular postscript to presidential campaigns. (The most famous of them will take place Thursday and Friday at the John F. Kennedy School at Harvard University.) 
 The calculation is that since the votes have been counted, campaign aides will offer inside information on what really happened. That said, these are on-the-record conferences in front of audiences that include potential future rivals, not to mention reporters, so there is a limit to just how open anyone is going to be.
 Which is not to say that they don't serve up intriguing insights and concessions, as was clear during four primary and general forums over the course of six hours here at the Dole Institute. To wit:
 Mr. Obama's deputy campaign manager, Steve Hildebrand, said he was never more worried than when he first saw the television advertisements from Mr. McCain during the summer mocking Mr. Obama as a celebrity. They arrived on the airwaves after Mr. Obama returned from Europe, where he drew huge crowds at a rally in Berlin. Those advertisements appeared to produce a tightening of the polls, and they coincided with what McCain's advisers said was their best moment of the general election campaign (perhaps the only good moment for Mr. McCain).
 ''It was the first time during the general election where I started to freak out,'' Mr. Hildebrand said. Referring to the portrayal of Mr. Obama, he said, ''I thought if they can brand him as a celebrity rather than as a serious leader we're going to be in serious trouble.''
 Mr. Hildebrand said he thought of an effective pushback to the attacks: the reason that 15,000 people were showing up at Obama rallies was because ''because they are hungry for change, not because he is a celebrity.'' Unfortunately, Mr. Hildebrand said ruefully, he thought of that two weeks after he first saw the McCain ad.
 For their part, Mr. McCain's advisers said their candidate had no choice, once the economic crisis occurred, to suspend the campaign and head to Washington, particularly given what they said was Mr. McCain's grievous error in declaring that the ''fundamentals of our economy are strong.'' But they said they realized as they reviewed polling data and focus groups in the following days that that maneuver set the groundwork for what proved to be one of Mr. Obama's most devastating lines of attacks.
 ''That is where your claim of 'erratic' really started to stick,'' said Sarah Simmons., the director of strategy for the McCain campaign, looking across the table at Mr. Hildebrand and Matt Rodriquez, Mr. Obama's director of Western states. ''We started to hear about that.''
 Mr. McCain's advisers used the forum to acknowledge what most of the political world now views as fairly incontrovertible: The campaign did not do a particularly good job of handling the rollout of Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the vice presidential candidate. ''That was something that, frankly, we mismanaged,'' said Mr. Ferry. 
 Throughout the sessions, Mr. McCain's contingent grimaced as Mr. Obama's representatives talked about the benefits of having so much money to spend -- like when Mr. Hildebrand recounted how the campaign manager, David Plouffe, ordered the staff to develop a $475 million general election budget. ''It was daunting,'' Mr. Hildebrand said. ''Our first crack at the budget was more like $600 million.''
 ''We're not supposed to give these numbers out, but I'll give them out,'' Mr. Hildebrand said at another point, as Mr. Ferry and Ms. Simmons watched like children with their faces pressed against a department store window at Christmastime. ''We have 90 people on our Internet team. And they weren't just doing the Internet. They were producing videos, they were slicing and dicing people who showed up on our Web site to figure who is more likely to give more money.
 ''We also spent a record amount of money on Internet advertising,'' he said. ''I want to say in the end $8 million on the Internet advertising alone. That really, really mattered.''
 Mr. McCain's adviser signaled frustration over their inability to keep inside campaign mechanics from leaking. Mr. Ferry talked with pride about clandestine effort by the campaign -- including booking hotel rooms under bogus names -- to keep the nomination of Ms. Palin a surprise. ''We tried very hard to keep her under wraps,'' he said. ''It was probably the only thing in the campaign that didn't leak out.''
 Mr. Obama's advisers said their biggest concern in the vice presidential selection was that Mr. McCain would chose Senator Joseph Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat. ''Joe Lieberman would have shaken things up in a damaging way for Barack Obama,'' said Mr. Hildebrandt.
 He said that the Obama campaign was never concerned about Ms. Palin, noting how the initial flash of interest gave way to a flood of questions about her qualifications. 
 ''John McCain's age, which hadn't been an issue in the campaign, suddenly became one,'' Mr. Hildebrand said. 
 Across the table, Ms. Simmons nodded. ''I think that's right,'' She said.
 Still, Mr. McCain's adviser argued that it would have been politically impossible to have chosen Mr. Lieberman and survived the convention without an uproar among conservative delegates. ''Huckabee would have walked off the field and taken his delegates with him,'' Mr. Rollins said.
 Finally, no matter how much Mr. Obama might have benefited from the debates in the general election, his aides made clear that they hated them during the primary campaign -- in no small part because Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, at least at first, did so well in them.
 ''The Clinton people accepted everything; we didn't want to accept anything,'' Mr. Hildebrand said ''We knew it would take two days away for preparation and take him away from New Hampshire. ''It would drive us crazy when Hilary Clinton would say, 'Yes, yes, yes' because we wanted to say, 'No, no, no!' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) KANSAS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



329 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Low-Key Comptroller Promises a Vigorous Run for Mayor

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
He compared Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's conduct to that of a third world dictator. He declared that New York City must be ''taken back from the billionaires.'' And, planning next year's campaign for mayor, he said Mr. Bloomberg ''can be beat -- now.''
 No, this is not the mild-mannered, cautious comptroller that New York City is used to (or unused to, given his relatively low profile).
 After Mr. Bloomberg re-engineered the city's term limits law this fall so that he could seek re-election -- making him the instant favorite in the 2009 race -- the comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., was roundly expected to bow out. 
 Instead, the setback seems to have only emboldened Mr. Thompson, 55, who has told friends and advisers that he will run against Mr. Bloomberg -- and run hard. He is promising to wage an elbows-out campaign that will paint the mayor as an out-of-touch billionaire whose reputation as the principled antipolitician was tarnished during the pitched battle over term limits. 
 Skeptics remain, but Mr. Thompson, who is the city's top financial watchdog, has raised about $5 million for the race, is close to appointing a campaign manager and is preparing to roll out a Web site declaring his candidacy for mayor on Wednesday, according to people told of his plans. 
 ''My intention is to run in 2009 and win, both in the primary and the general election,'' he said recently during an extended interview. 
 In preparation, Mr. Thompson has taken steps to appear more mayoral in recent weeks, unveiling his own financial rescue plan for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, challenging the mayor's decision to hold back the annual $400 property tax rebates (he called it ''callous'') and hosting catered town hall meetings throughout the city. 
 His evolution from political sideshow to hard-charging challenger is upending his own reputation, fair or not, as a deft behind-the-scenes operator and consensus builder who, in public, is judicious and understated, at times to his own detriment.. 
 Mr. Thompson, a Democrat, has been a fixture of New York City government for three decades -- serving as a deputy to Howard Golden, the longtime Brooklyn borough president, in the mid-1980s, then as president of the Board of Education in the early 1990s. 
 Since 2002, he has served as comptroller, a powerful citywide elected post. The comptroller has the authority to audit any agency, direct the investment of billions in public pension funds and serve as a check on City Hall's considerable power. 
 In that role, Mr. Thompson said he has ferreted out millions in wasteful spending, compelled the region's secretive transportation authority to open its books to the public, and invested heavily in projects, like affordable housing, which have benefited the city's economy. 
 Nevertheless, many polls find that most New Yorkers -- 70 percent, by one measure -- know little about Mr. Thompson. Even as he began laying the groundwork for his run for mayor, the comptroller remained inconspicuous enough that several political operatives quipped that he was ''walking for mayor.'' 
 But that changed during the fight over term limits. After a halting start, Mr. Thompson became a sharp thorn in the mayor's side. 
 In fiery town hall meetings and impromptu news conferences, he denounced the mayor's bid for a third term as ''the hijacking of democracy,'' and eventually lent his name to a lawsuit filed to block the measure. Behind the scenes, he pleaded with the city's Democratic Party bosses, who had pressured City Council members to support Mr. Bloomberg's term limits legislation, to back off and let lawmakers vote their conscience, people involved in the process said. 
 ''I was surprised at how aggressive he was,'' said Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. ''He did not shrink from the fight, and it sent a clear message.''
 Mr. Thompson said he felt ''offended'' and ''betrayed'' by the mayor's push to rewrite, without a referendum, an election law that was endorsed twice by city voters -- and by the aid of Mr. Bloomberg's wealthy friends, who vigorously advocated for the change. 
 ''It was as if everything had been predetermined,'' he said. ''My feeling was, what about the other eight million people in New York City? What about the average New Yorker, the working New Yorker, the middle-class New Yorker?''
 Sounding what is likely to be a theme in the race, he added: ''For seven years, the mayor has indicated that he is different somehow, that he is above politics and that he understood New Yorkers and was there for them. And I think that has been thrown out the window right now. This was one of the greatest displays of self-interest that we have ever seen in this city.''
 Mr. Thompson said that the contrasting images of the mayor signing the term limits measure into law on Nov. 3 -- ''discarding'' New Yorkers' vote, he said -- and the election the next day of Barack Obama became a decisive influence on his decision to run for mayor. ''It was made firmer by what you saw during term limits and it was cast in concrete on Nov. 4,'' he said.
 William T. Cunningham, a former Bloomberg aide who is expected to be involved in the mayor's re-election effort, said it would be a mistake for Mr. Thompson to attack Mr. Bloomberg ''on a personal basis'' -- whether it be over term limits, his wealth or his ties to the business community. 
 ''That has been tried a couple of times before. Guess what? The public does not buy it,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''They say, look at the job he has done.'' 
 He added that Mr. Thompson should be focused on raising his own low profile. ''He is an unknown quantity, still,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''That should tell you something.''
 Mr. Thompson said, ''You always hear, 'Does he have the fire in the belly?' '' 
 The complaint is a myth disproved by his resume, he said, especially his leap to the elected office of comptroller, in 2001. from president of the Board of Education, an appointed job. In that race -- a heated, at times ugly, primary contest -- he defeated Herbert Berman, the chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee, by 8 percentage points. 
 ''I may not be out there at press conferences screaming, but it doesn't mean that I don't have passion or have principles, and that I stand up and fight for those things,'' Mr. Thompson said. 
 Mr. Thompson's entry into the campaign for mayor could transform the race. The mayor's aides believed that the biggest threat to Mr. Bloomberg's re-election would be Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a combative opponent with whom the mayor and his advisers relished doing battle. 
 But that is not the case with Mr. Thompson, a well-liked, politically connected figure whom the mayor has repeatedly called an accomplished comptroller. As one political operative put it: ''Weiner has the mouth. But Billy has the Rolodex.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has also prided himself on establishing warm relations with black New Yorkers, and may find it trickier to mount an aggressive campaign against a leading black politician.
 Mr. Thompson said he envisioned waging a robust ''five borough campaign'' that would capture support from black and Latino voters, as well as in areas, like Manhattan, which are seen as strongholds for Mr. Bloomberg. 
 ''I don't think there is a community where I will be shut out of,'' Mr. Thompson said.
 As for the mayor's financial edge, and willingness to spend $80 million on a campaign, he said jokingly, ''I'd like to have it,'' adding, ''I think the money can be overcome.''
 Mr. Thompson moved this fall from Brooklyn to Harlem, home to many of the city's most powerful black politicians, prompting speculation that he is trying to expand his base. Mr. Thompson said it was simply more convenient, since his wife, Elsie McCabe, runs the Museum for African Art in the neighborhood.
 He has informed candidates for the comptroller's office that he does not plan to seek re-election, clearing the way for their campaigns.
 And over dinners, often with his wife by his side, Mr. Thompson has told friends and advisers that he is committed to running for mayor. ''It's pretty definitive,'' said one person who has eaten with him. ''He is not torn. He is saying, 'Stop me if you think it's a mistake.' '' 
 Many of those dinner companions have asked Mr. Thompson if he was prepared to lose. He inevitably responds yes, these people said, hinting that he would be in a strong position to run again in 2013, when Mr. Bloomberg will be forced from office under the revised term limits law. 
 Asked about these conversations, Mr. Thompson said he would not run in 2009 unless he thought he could prevail. ''I think the mayor can be beat, and I think he can be beat -- now -- in 2009,'' he said. ''Is there a possibility that you can lose? I guess there is always that possibility. I think I am going to run and win.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PENSION FUNDS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (63%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



330 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: This Old House

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
The 1980s and 1990s made up the era of the great dispersal. Forty-three million people moved every year, and basically they moved outward -- from inner-ring suburbs to far-flung exurbs on the metro fringe. For example, the population of metropolitan Pittsburgh declined by 8 percent in those years, but the developed land area of the Pittsburgh area sprawled outward by 43 percent. 
 If you asked people in that age of go-go suburbia what they wanted in their new housing developments, they often said they wanted a golf course. But the culture has changed. If you ask people today what they want, they're more likely to say coffee shops, hiking trails and community centers. 
 People overshot the mark. They moved to the exurbs because they wanted space and order. But once there, they found that they were missing community and social bonds. So in the past years there has been a new trend. Meeting places are popping up across the suburban landscape.
 There are restaurant and entertainment zones, mixed-use streetscape malls, suburban theater districts, farmers' markets and concert halls. In addition, downtown areas in places like Charlotte and Dallas are reviving as many people move back into the city in search of human contact. Joel Kotkin, the author of ''The New Geography,'' calls this clustering phenomenon the New Localism.
 Barack Obama has said that he would start an infrastructure project that will dwarf Dwight Eisenhower's highway program. If, indeed, we are going to have a once-in-a-half-century infrastructure investment, it would be great if the program would build on today's emerging patterns. It would be great if Obama's spending, instead of just dissolving into the maw of construction, would actually encourage the clustering and leave a legacy that would be visible and beloved 50 years from now. 
 To take advantage of the growing desire for community, the Obama plan would have to do two things. First, it would have to create new transportation patterns. The old metro design was based on a hub-and-spoke system -- a series of highways that converged on an urban core. But in an age of multiple downtown nodes and complicated travel routes, it's better to have a complex web of roads and rail systems.
 Second, the Obama stimulus plan could help localities create suburban town squares. Many communities are trying to build focal points. The stimulus plan could build charter schools, pre-K centers, national service centers and other such programs around new civic hubs. 
 This kind of stimulus would be consistent with Obama's campaign, which was all about bringing Americans together in new ways. It would help maintain the social capital that's about to be decimated by the economic downturn.
 But alas, there's no evidence so far that the Obama infrastructure plan is attached to any larger social vision. In fact, there is a real danger that the plan will retard innovation and entrench the past.
 In a stimulus plan, the first job is to get money out the door quickly. That means you avoid anything that might require planning and creativity. You avoid anything that might require careful implementation or novel approaches. The quickest thing to do is simply throw money at things that already exist.
 Sure enough, the Obama stimulus plan, at least as it has been sketched out so far, is notable for its lack of creativity. Obama wants to put more computers in classrooms, an old idea with dubious educational merit. He also proposes a series of ideas that are good but not exactly transformational: refurbishing the existing power grid; fixing the oldest roads and bridges; repairing schools; and renovating existing government buildings to make them more energy efficient.
 This is the federal version of ''This Old House.'' And this is before the stimulus money gets diverted, as it inevitably will, to refurbish old companies. The auto bailout could eventually swallow $125 billion. After that, it could be the airlines and so on.
 It's also before the spending drought that is bound to follow the spending binge. Because we're going to be spending $1 trillion now on existing structures and fading industries, there will be less or nothing in 2010 or 2011 for innovative transport systems, innovative social programs or anything else.
 Before the recession hit, we were enjoying a period of urban and suburban innovation. We could have been on the verge of a transportation revolution. It looks as if the Obama infrastructure plan may freeze that change, not fuel it. 
 And not to get all Rod McKuen on you or anything, but the larger point is this: Social change has a natural rhythm. The season of prosperity gives way to the season of economic scarcity, and out of the winter of recession, new growth has room to emerge. A stimulus package may be necessary, but unless designed with care, its main effect will be to prop up the drying husks of the fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (86%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); HIKING (54%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



331 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: $73 an Hour for Autoworkers And How It Really Adds Up

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Seventy-three dollars an hour.
 That figure -- repeated on television and in newspapers as the average pay of a Big Three autoworker -- has become a big symbol in the fight over what should happen to Detroit. To critics, it is a neat encapsulation of everything that's wrong with bloated car companies and their entitled workers.
 To the Big Three's defenders, meanwhile, the number has become proof positive that autoworkers are being unfairly blamed for Detroit's decline. ''We've heard this garbage about 73 bucks an hour,'' Senator Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat, said last week. ''It's a total lie. I think some people have perpetrated that deliberately, in a calculated way, to mislead the American people about what we're doing here.'' 
 So what is the reality behind the number? Detroit's defenders are right that the number is basically wrong. Big Three workers aren't making anything close to $73 an hour (which would translate to about $150,000 a year). 
 But the defenders are not right to suggest, as many have, that Detroit has solved its wage problem. General Motors, Ford and Chrysler workers make significantly more than their counterparts at Toyota, Honda and Nissan plants in this country. Last year's concessions by the United Automobile Workers, which mostly apply to new workers, will not change that anytime soon. 
 And yet the main problem facing Detroit, overwhelmingly, is not the pay gap. That's unfortunate because fixing the pay gap would be fairly straightforward.
 The real problem is that many people don't want to buy the cars that Detroit makes. Fixing this problem won't be nearly so easy. 
 The success of any bailout is probably going to come down to Washington's willingness to acknowledge as much.
 Let's start with the numbers. The $73-an-hour figure comes from the car companies themselves. As part of their public relations strategy during labor negotiations, the companies put out various charts and reports explaining what they paid their workers. Wall Street analysts have done similar calculations.
 The calculations show, accurately enough, that for every hour a unionized worker puts in, one of the Big Three really does spend about $73 on compensation. So the number isn't made up. But it is the combination of three very different categories.
 The first category is simply cash payments, which is what many people imagine when they hear the word ''compensation.'' It includes wages, overtime and vacation pay, and comes to about $40 an hour. (The numbers vary a bit by company and year. That's why $73 is sometimes $70 or $77.)
 The second category is fringe benefits, like health insurance and pensions. These benefits have real value, even if they don't show up on a weekly paycheck. At the Big Three, the benefits amount to $15 an hour or so. 
 Add the two together, and you get the true hourly compensation of Detroit's unionized work force: roughly $55 an hour. It's a little more than twice as much as the typical American worker makes, benefits included. The more relevant comparison, though, is probably to Honda's or Toyota's (nonunionized) workers. They make in the neighborhood of $45 an hour, and most of the gap stems from their less generous benefits. 
 The third category is the cost of benefits for retirees. These are essentially fixed costs that have no relation to how many vehicles the companies make. But they are a real cost, so the companies add them into the mix -- dividing those costs by the total hours of the current work force, to get a figure of $15 or so -- and end up at roughly $70 an hour. 
 The crucial point, though, is this $15 isn't mainly a reflection of how generous the retiree benefits are. It's a reflection of how many retirees there are. The Big Three built up a huge pool of retirees long before Honda and Toyota opened plants in this country. You'd never know this by looking at the graphic behind Wolf Blitzer on CNN last week, contrasting the ''$73/hour'' pay of Detroit's workers with the ''up to $48/hour'' pay of workers at the Japanese companies.
 These retirees make up arguably Detroit's best case for a bailout. The Big Three and the U.A.W. had the bad luck of helping to create the middle class in a country where individual companies -- as opposed to all of society -- must shoulder much of the burden of paying for retirement.
 So here's a little experiment. Imagine that a Congressional bailout effectively pays for $10 an hour of the retiree benefits. That's roughly the gap between the Big Three's retiree costs and those of the Japanese-owned plants in this country. Imagine, also, that the U.A.W. agrees to reduce pay and benefits for current workers to $45 an hour -- the same as at Honda and Toyota. 
 Do you know how much that would reduce the cost of producing a Big Three vehicle? Only about $800. 
 That's because labor costs, for all the attention they have been receiving, make up only about 10 percent of the cost of making a vehicle. An extra $800 per vehicle would certainly help Detroit, but the Big Three already often sell their cars for about $2,500 less than equivalent cars from Japanese companies, analysts at the International Motor Vehicle Program say. Even so, many Americans no longer want to own the cars being made by General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. 
 My own family's story isn't especially unusual. For decades, my grandparents bought American and only American. In their apartment, they still have a framed photo of the 1933 Oldsmobile that my grandfather's family drove when he was a teenager. In the photo, his father stands proudly on the car's running board.
 By the 1970s, though, my grandfather became so sick of the problems with his American cars that he vowed never to buy another one. He hasn't. 
 Detroit's defenders, from top executives on down, insist that they have finally learned their lesson. They say a comeback is just around the corner. But they said the same thing at the start of this decade -- and the start of the last one and the one before that. All the while, their market share has kept on falling. 
 There is good reason to keep G.M. and Chrysler from collapsing in 2009. (Ford is in slightly better shape.) The economy is in the worst recession in a generation. You can think of the Detroit bailout as a relatively cost-effective form of stimulus. It's often cheaper to keep workers in their jobs than to create new jobs. 
 But Congress and the Obama administration shouldn't fool themselves into thinking that they can preserve the Big Three in anything like their current form. Very soon, they need to shrink to a size that reflects the American public's collective judgment about the quality of their products. 
 It's a sad story, in many ways. But it can't really be undone at this point. If we had wanted to preserve the Big Three, we would have bought more of their cars.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Figuring Autoworkers' Pay: Ford's labor costs, like those at the other Big Three, are higher than those of Japanese manufacturers in the United States. A 2007 deal with the United Automobile Workers cut wages for new hires and created a retiree health care fund that would transfer that responsibility to the U.A.W. in 2010.(Source: Ford) Chart details Average hourly cost of factory workers. (pg. A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BOB CASEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



332 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: After Wall St. Tremors, Office Vacancy Rates Rise in Manhattan's Shadow

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
The aftershock of the financial earthquake that hit Wall Street late in the summer is rattling two major suburban markets north of Manhattan. As elsewhere, office vacancy rates have been climbing in Westchester County, N.Y., and Fairfield County, Conn., which sit side by side. 
 At last count, as of Sept. 30, the vacancy rate in Fairfield was 14 percent, a full percentage point higher than a year earlier, and in Westchester it was 15.7 percent, also up a full point. The rates are almost certainly going higher, brokers say, as leasing deals have been falling through and sublease space has been coming on the market. 
 ''The news out there has been bone-jarring,'' said Jim Fagan, a senior managing director for Cushman & Wakefield, a worldwide commercial brokerage firm, in its Stamford offices. He is one of many predicting even bleaker year-end numbers. 
 In Fairfield, UBS, the Swiss banking giant, announced it would not move into 112,000 square feet of space that it had recently leased in Stamford for expansion; it will be seeking to sublease the space for an annual rent of $40 a square foot or more. UBS has its North American headquarters and the world's largest trading floor in Stamford.
 In addition, Legg Mason, a global asset management firm based in Baltimore, has extended its lease for only three-quarters of the 200,000 square feet it has been occupying in Stamford.
 Thacher Proffitt & Wood, a Manhattan law firm that represented lenders in Westchester, is vacating all of the 22,500 square feet that it occupied in downtown White Plains. With nine years left on its 10-year lease, the company is hoping to sublet the space.
 And USA Bank, a small private bank in Port Chester, N.Y., is terminating a lease for 10,000 square feet at 800 Westchester Avenue in Rye Brook, the former Altria headquarters. ''I don't have to tell you what's happened with the mortgage banking business,'' said Ronald J. Gentile, USA Bank's president and chief executive. ''In times like these, we've all been forced to cut back.''
 While some prospective tenants are opting out of deals altogether, others are seeking more favorable terms. ''As a result, we're seeing a lot of deals going in fits and starts instead of marching smartly to the finish line,'' said Howard E. Greenberg, president of Howard Properties/Corfac International in White Plains. 
 Many tenants are waiting until the last minute to sign leases and then agreeing to terms of only a year or two, in contrast to the leases of five to seven years that were common in the recent past. ''The mood is cautious,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''Even companies that are doing well now are wondering if the bad times will eventually catch up with them.''
 On the other side of the table, landlords are increasingly willing to please, said Margaret Carlson, portfolio director of RFR Realty, which is based in Manhattan and owns and manages a seven-building, 1.8-million-square-foot Class A office portfolio in Stamford. Rents have dropped and incentive packages are becoming more generous, she said. 
 In the most sought-after office buildings, real estate brokers said, asking rents are $50 or more a square foot annually in Stamford and $80 or more in Greenwich; in Westchester, they run about $35 a square foot, except in downtown White Plains, where they run about $40. Before the market softened, some rents in Greenwich were more than $100 a square foot and more than $60 in Stamford.
 ''Landlords are trying to hold on to their old rents,'' Mr. Fagan said. ''But at the same time, they're trying to stimulate rental activity and attract tenants, so some have started to come down in price.''
 Looking ahead, those familiar with both counties observed that Westchester may be in a somewhat stronger position than Fairfield.
 In part, this may be a result of an earlier trauma. Devastated by an economic recession in the late 1980s, prominent Fortune 500 companies like I.B.M. downsized and left behind vast vacancies -- as much as 400,000 square feet or more at a time -- in many newly built office buildings throughout Westchester. From the debris, a new strategy emerged among building owners and real estate agents to seek small and midsize companies to fill empty spaces, rather than trying to sign a single large tenant.
 ''Westchester diversified and became far less dependent on the big guys,'' said Christopher B. O'Callaghan, a managing director at Cushman & Wakefield in Rye Brook. ''As a result, it's in a far healthier position now to weather what's ahead.''
 Moreover, because its rents for Class A office space are generally lower than Fairfield's, Westchester is able to woo tenants that in better times might have sought out more expensive quarters in Manhattan, Stamford or Greenwich.
 Recently, for example, Amalgamated Life Insurance decided to leave Manhattan and lease 132,000 square feet of office space at 333 Westchester Avenue in White Plains, the former headquarters of General Foods. The space was vacated late last year by the Ameriquest Mortgage Company, one of the first firms to fail in the subprime mortgage crisis.
 Robert P. Weisz owns about two million square feet of office space in Westchester -- including 800 Westchester Avenue in Rye Brook -- and as a landlord has weathered several downturns. He pointed out that since the county overbuilt in the 1980s, it has had no substantial new office construction.
 ''Because we're facing this recession with very little new supply, we may see an increase in vacancies, but it will be tempered,'' Mr. Weisz predicted. 
 In Stamford, by contrast, the Royal Bank of Scotland is building a 12-story, 500,000-square-foot United States headquarters. It will have room for 3,000 employees and is expected to be ready in the middle of 2009.
 In addition, Building and Land Technology, a real estate development and private equity firm in Norwalk, is putting up two new office buildings on speculation -- without a committed major tenant -- at Harbor Point in Stamford, with 400,000 square feet to be ready in 2010. The development was started with considerable fanfare by Antares Investment Partners, but in September, Building and Land Technology invested heavily in the project and became the official developer. 
 As the nation's economic troubles deepen, most market observers are leery about predicting an upturn in the office market. ''The only thing we seem to know for sure at this point is that things aren't going to turn around quickly,'' Mr. Fagan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Weisz of the RPW Group in Rye Brook, N.Y., expects Westchester County to weather the downturn in office rentals.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBURBS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%); LEGG MASON INC (55%); THACHER PROFFITT & WOOD LLP (54%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (55%); MO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



333 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Tests Show U.S. Gains On Scores For Math

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
American fourth- and eighth-grade students made solid achievement gains in math in recent years and in two states showed spectacular progress, an international survey of student achievement released on Tuesday found. Science performance was flat. 
 The results showed that several Asian countries continued to outperform the United States greatly in science and math, subjects that are crucial to economic competitiveness and research.
 The survey, the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study, or Timss, found that fourth-grade students in Hong Kong and eighth-grade students in Taiwan were the world's top scorers in math, while Singapore dominated in science at both grade levels.
 ''We were pleased to see improvements in math, and wished we'd seen more in science,'' said Stuart Kerachsky, acting commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics at the Education Department, which carried out an analysis of the performance of American students on the test.
 The latest Timss study, the world's largest review of math and science achievement, involved testing a representative sample of students in each country in 2007, the first time the tests had been administered since 2003. The results included fourth-grade scores from 36 countries and eighth-grade scores from 48 countries. The tests cover subjects taught in all the participating countries, including algebra, chemistry, geometry and physics.
 The study is directed by the International Study Center at Boston College.
 Asia's continuing dominance in math and science, first demonstrated in the 1990s, was especially apparent in the latest results, which showed rising percentages of high-scoring students there. 
 Nearly half of eighth graders scored at the advanced level in math in Taiwan, Korea and Singapore, compared with 6 percent of American students.
 Comparing educational performance in the United States, a diverse country of 300 million people with 50 state educational systems, with city-states like Singapore and Hong Kong, which have populations of 4.5 million and 6.9 million people, respectively, is a bit of apples and oranges. 
 Still, experts said the Timss study again confirmed the tremendous gains those societies had made in just a few decades.
 ''It was good to see that the United States has made some progress in math,'' said Ina V. S. Mullis, co-director of the Boston College center, ''but I was surprised by the magnitude of the gap between us and the highest performing Asian countries, and that should cause us some concern.''
 Students in Massachusetts and Minnesota, which participated in a special study that attributed a score to the states as if they were individual countries, also demonstrated stellar achievement, outperforming classmates in all but a handful of countries. 
 In eighth-grade science, for instance, Massachusetts students, on average, scored higher than or equal to students in all countries but Singapore and Taiwan.
 And in Minnesota, which has worked to improve its math curriculum, the proportion of fourth-grade students performing at the advanced level jumped from 9 percent in 1995 to 18 percent in 2007, a gain that was one of the world's largest.
 But on average, the results showed several Asian countries increasing their dominance. 
 In the fourth-grade math survey, scores in Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Kazakhstan, Russia, England and Latvia were higher than in the United States. 
 Average scores were equal to the United States in the Netherlands, Lithuania, Germany and Denmark. Scores in 23 other countries were significantly lower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); MATHEMATICS (91%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); GEOMETRY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); STATISTICS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (94%); TAIWAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



334 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: House Ethics Panel Expands Rangel Inquiry

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
The House ethics committee voted on Tuesday to expand its investigation into Representative Charles B. Rangel to examine his role in preserving a tax loophole for an oil drilling company whose chief executive pledged $1 million to a City College of New York project that will bear the congressman's name. 
 Mr. Rangel, whose personal finances and fund-raising have been the subject of an inquiry for several months, came under renewed scrutiny last month, when The New York Times reported that he was a pivotal figure in stymieing efforts to close a tax shelter for Nabors Industries and three other companies during the same month that the chief executive of Nabors made a $100,000 donation to C.C.N.Y.'s Rangel Center of Public Service. 
 The chief executive, Eugene M. Isenberg, had acknowledged that he and a company lobbyist met with Mr. Rangel at the Carlyle Hotel in New York on Feb. 12, 2007, the same day that the Ways and Means Committee, of which Mr. Rangel is chairman, was considering a bill that left the loophole intact, but said they did not discuss his pledge to donate $1 million to the school.
 Mr. Rangel, a Democrat from Harlem, has strenuously denied any wrongdoing and this week asked that the ethics panel examine his relationship with Nabors.
 The ethics committee statement did not set a timetable for the inquiry, but lawyers and congressional aides said that the expansion of the investigation means it is unlikely that the panel will complete its case by Jan. 3, as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested last month.
 Republicans have called for Mr. Rangel to step down as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, which shapes tax policy and will be instrumental in crafting President-elect Barack Obama's proposed fiscal stimulus program to jump-start the flagging economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ETHICS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); LOBBYING (73%)

COMPANY: NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD (57%)

TICKER: NBR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (57%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



335 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Expects Pain Worldwide

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The world economy is on the brink of a rare global recession, the World Bank said in a forecast released Tuesday, with world trade projected to fall next year for the first time since 1982 and capital flows to developing countries predicted to plunge 50 percent.
 The projections are among the most dire in a litany of recent gloomy forecasts for the world economy, and officials at the World Bank warned that if they proved accurate, the downturn could throw many developing countries into crisis and keep tens of millions of people in poverty. 
 Even more troubling, several economists said, there is no obvious engine to drive a recovery.
 American consumers are unlikely to return to their old spending habits, even after the United States climbs out of its current financial crisis. With growth in China slowing sharply, consumers there are not about to pick up the slack from the Americans. The collapse in oil prices -- a side effect of the crisis -- has knocked the wind out of consumers in oil-exporting countries.
 ''We know that the financial crisis now is likely to be the worst since the 1930s,'' said Justin Lin, the chief economist of the World Bank, summarizing the projections.
 The bank forecasts the global economy will eke out growth of 0.9 percent in 2009, down from 2.5 percent this year and 4 percent in 2006. That is the slowest pace since 1982, when global growth was 0.3 percent. Developing countries will grow an average of 4.5 percent next year -- a pace that economists said constituted a recession, given the need of these countries to grow rapidly to generate enough jobs for their swelling populations.
 ''You don't need negative growth in developing countries to have a situation that feels like a recession,'' said Hans Timmer, who directs the bank's international economic analyses and projections. He predicted rising joblessness and closed factories in many developing countries.
 The volume of world trade, which grew 9.8 percent in 2006 and an estimated 6.2 percent this year, will contract by 2.1 percent in 2009, the report said. That drop would be deeper than the last major contraction in trade: 1.9 percent in 1975. 
 Net private flows of capital to developing countries are projected to decline to $530 billion in 2009, from $1 trillion in 2007.
 The loss of that capital will sharply constrict investment in emerging-market economies, the report said, with annual investment growth slowing to 3.5 percent in 2009 from 13.2 percent in 2007.
 Several countries are also being hurt by the decline in the prices of oil and other commodities -- a phenomenon the World Bank characterizes as the end of a five-year commodities boom -- though the decline in food and fuel costs has relieved the pressure on people in other countries.
 The sudden drop in capital flows poses a particular danger to oil exporters, some of whom have run up heavy debts. 
 ''They'll have to roll over that debt, one way or the other,'' said Simon Johnson, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''That's going to put a huge squeeze on these countries.''
 Mr. Johnson said the calmer atmosphere in foreign markets belied the gravity of the situation. Spreads on credit default swaps -- a common yardstick for whether a country's government is in danger of default -- continue to signal potential trouble for Ireland, Italy and Greece.
 The authorities in Greece are battling violent street protests in Athens and its suburbs, caused in part by the deteriorating economy.
 Reflecting what is by now conventional wisdom, the World Bank recommended that countries undertake large fiscal stimulus programs to cushion the downturn. The bank itself has committed up to $100 billion in aid to developing countries over three years. 
 If there is a silver lining amid the gloom, it is the relief that lower food and fuel prices mean for poorer countries. While the prices of almost all commodities have fallen sharply since July, they remain higher than in the 1990s, which the bank says should prevent future supply shortages.
 As the World Bank's experts struggled to find a historical analog for the slump, they said it had more in common with the Depression of the 1930s than with the severe recessions of the 1970s or 1980s.
 ''It is not just a supply shock,'' Mr. Timmer said. ''It is not just a reduction in demand, but it is the lack of availability of credit.''
 Deutsche Bank, in a forecast issued this week, was even more pessimistic. It said global growth would drop to 0.2 percent in 2009, with the United States, Europe, and Japan in recessions of roughly equal severity. 
 China, which grew 11.9 percent in 2007, will slow to 7 percent next year, the bank projects, and 6.6 percent in 2010, when the rest of the world is slowly recovering. ''It's not going to be the spark that reignites global demand,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist for Deutsche Bank. ''We're almost in an air pocket, where we don't have a new global driver of growth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); JOB CREATION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



336 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Airline Losses Expected to Be Smaller in '09

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The airline industry is expected to have collective losses of $2.5 billion in 2009, according to a forecast from an airline trade association.
 The report from the International Air Transport Association said the 2009 loss would be half what the group's 230 members expected to lose this year and reflected improving operations in North America, where a sharp fall in fuel prices has brought relief to airlines that did not hedge against the costs.
 Airlines in North America are expected to shift from huge losses to a modest profit next year, the trade group said on Tuesday, but carriers in Europe and Asia will have deeper losses. Unlike airlines elsewhere, several American carriers were only just emerging from bankruptcy protection as oil prices were rising last year, leaving them unable to hedge and protect themselves against the surge in fuel costs. When oil prices fell sharply, their lack of contracts locked in at high prices turned out to be a boon. 
 While oil, which peaked at $145.29 a barrel in July, is likely to average $60 a barrel in 2009, according to the trade industry's forecasts, overall revenue in the industry will fall by $35 billion, to $501 billion.
 ''The chronic industry crisis will continue into 2009 with $2.5 billion in losses,'' said Giovanni Bisignani, the chief executive of the association, based in Geneva.
 Describing the economic environment as the worst in 50 years, he said, ''The outlook is bleak.''
 Oil has now fallen to around $43 a barrel, but not soon enough to prevent American carriers from posting what the trade group predicts will be $3.9 billion in losses this year -- the worst regional performance in the industry.
 Next year, North American airlines should claw out a $300 million profit, but the margin will be less than 1 percent, the report said.
 Global passenger traffic is expected to fall faster than it did after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Traffic grew 2 percent in 2008, but was expected to fall 3 percent in 2009, the group said. In 2001, it fell 2.7 percent.
 Air cargo traffic is an early indicator of trends in economic growth because companies stop flying inventory when a slowdown bites. The group predicted that the falloff in cargo traffic would accelerate, dropping 5 percent in 2009 after an expected 1.5 percent decline this year. In a sign that the slowdown was worsening, cargo traffic shrank 7.9 percent in October.
 In Europe, where many carriers are still locked in at higher fuel-hedging levels and the biggest economies are already in a recession, aviation industry losses will be 10 times as high, or $1 billion, in 2009, the group said.
 Losses for airlines in the Asia-Pacific region will more than double, to $1.1 billion, next year, group said. The area has a disproportionate 45 percent of the air cargo market. But Chinese exports are expected to slow, Japan is in a recession, and India is likely to have a drop in demand.
 Among the fast-expanding Middle Eastern airlines, losses will double, to $200 million. African carriers already battling to retain market share can expect another year of losses, estimated at $300 million.
 ''The industry remains sick,'' Mr. Bisignani said, adding that ''the ferocity of the economic crisis'' had overshadowed the industry's efforts to rein in costs. ''It will take changes beyond the control of airlines to navigate back into profitable territory,'' he added.
 Southwest Cuts Schedule
 DALLAS (AP) -- The Southwest Airlines Company cut its schedule on Tuesday, eliminating 32 round-trip flights and adding 19 new ones, starting in May.
 The chief executive, Gary C. Kelly, said the schedule was trying to maximize the use of aircraft on the best routes.
 Among the new nonstop flights are Nashville to Oakland, Calif., and Nashville to Seattle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



337 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Sports Museum Having Problems

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Sports Museum of America, which opened in Lower Manhattan in May just before the economic crisis, is not meeting its attendance targets, has laid off employees and slashed ticket prices, and said last week it would no longer be open Mondays. 
 In September, it defaulted on the tax-free Liberty Bonds that financed more than half the cost of the $93 million museum and has since been negotiating a restructured payment schedule, said Philip Schwalb, the museum's founder and chief executive.
 ''The conversations have been very positive and helpful to us and are still ongoing, so the ultimate structure is one that the museum will be able to live and thrive within,'' Schwalb said Tuesday in a telephone interview.
 The museum, at 26 Broadway, is filled with memorabilia, films and interactive exhibits; it has exclusive relationships with 60 sports halls of fame, national governing bodies and other organizations. Nearly all the sports halls have deals with the museum except for baseball's. It is the home of the Heisman Trophy, which will be awarded Saturday, and the Billie Jean King International Women's Sports Center.
 Attendance will not reach the million visitors that Schwalb had hoped for in the first year of operations or the 800,000 that he thought was a strong projection. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TICKET SALES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); LAYOFFS (58%); EXECUTIVES (55%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (51%); SPORTS AWARDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



338 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: From Canned Goods to Fresh, Food Banks Adapt to Demand

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: MADISON, Wis. 

 BODY:
Vanessa Rosales comes to the St. Vincent de Paul Food Pantry here rather than others for one reason: She can choose what food she brings home, rather than being handed a bag filled with random groceries. 
 The pantry, which looks like a small grocery store, is indicative of broad changes going on at the nation's food banks and food pantries. 
 No longer simply the domain of canned corn and peanut butter, food banks are preparing ready-to-eat meals, opening their own farms and partnering with institutions as varied as local supermarkets and state prisons to help gather and process food. They are also handling much more fresh produce, which requires overhauling the way they store and distribute food.
 Pantries, which distribute the food donated to food banks, are also acting as social service clearinghouses. Many are handing out information about screenings for breast and cervical cancer and sending volunteers out to sign up people for food stamps. 
 And as demand continues to rise, food banks are trying to feed more people with less food. 
 ''It's not just handing out a box here or there anymore,'' said Peggy Grimes, executive director of the Montana Food Bank Network, which covers the state. ''A lot of effort goes into thinking outside the box. It's becoming the focus of food banking.'' In Madison, thinking of new ways to dispense food was a necessity. The pantry used to pack and distribute food, only to find the bags of groceries discarded at a bus stop around the corner. 
 ''It's not that they were ungrateful,'' said Ralph Middlecamp, the pantry's director. ''They just knew they wouldn't eat it.'' 
 Many who left the food were recent immigrants who ''don't relate to canned food,'' Mr. Middlecamp said. 
 The pantry now gives each person an allotted number of points, which they use to pick out items. Bread is free; eggs are three points, ham four, a giant tub of salsa six. 
 ''We want to help accommodate the dignity and preferences of the people,'' Mr. Middlecamp said. 
 Ms. Rosales used some of her points on apples, meat and milk for her three children. 
 ''I've been to pantries before where they give you things you don't need,'' said Ms. Rosales, who was recently laid off from her job as a preschool teacher. ''This way you can pick what you're going to use, rather than saying, 'What am I going to do with this?' '' 
 Years ago, food banks would ask the same question about large-scale donations of produce and meat, which would quickly spoil. 
 As consumers buy fewer canned products and more fresh vegetables, retailers have responded by meeting their needs. Consequently, the surplus product that stores donate to food banks switched to fresh food from canned, nonperishable items. Tighter inventory controls have also left some stores with less to donate.
 Food banks and pantries are buying industrial-size freezers and refrigerated trucks to store food. Some have opened gleaming industrial kitchens where culinary students, volunteers or convicts in work-training programs prepare meals. 
 The Nashville Food Bank built a federally certified manufacturing facility, where it churns out 50-gallon drums of tomato sauce, along with stews, chili and other food. Most is pumped into heat-sealed plastic bags, cooled and frozen. The food bank distributes the packages to pantries around the country. 
 ''All an agency needs to do is pop it into boiling water, and then warm it up, cut it open and serve it to a client,'' said Jaynee Day, executive director of the food bank. 
 At the Vermont Foodbank in Barre, a walk-in freezer holds hundreds of frozen meals like chicken a la king and French bread pizza that are made in an adjacent kitchen from produce gleaned from grocery stores and local farms. Many times ingredients are added to help increase certain types of nutrients, like broccoli for calcium. 
 Vermont recently joined a growing group of food banks with their own farms, distributing the produce they grow to clients in need or using it to make meals. 
 Ms. Grimes of the Montana Food Bank Network said, ''We deal with so much more produce now.''
 She has become a partner with the Montana State Prison, where inmates can much of the donated and bought produce, meat and fish, as well as beans and pasta.
 ''It helps us by allowing us to accept product donations we might have had to pass up,'' Ms. Grimes said, ''just because we didn't have ability to get them distributed throughout the state in the short lifespan that they had.'' 
 The vastness of Montana makes food banking even more difficult, as it can take days for a shipment to reach a rural pantry. 
 In some communities, the pantry is the only social service agency for hundreds of miles. 
 ''We're really focused in two directions,'' Ms. Grimes said. ''We feed people, but we look at ways to get people to a place where they don't need emergency food. You can't just keep feeding people without looking for ways to help make their life better.'' 
 In central Florida, teams with laptops and food stamp applications are going to food pantries and signing up people for the program. The teams are also notifying people that they may be eligible for an earned income tax credit and other government services. 
 ''They're not applying for them,'' said Dave Krepcho, executive director of the Food Bank of Central Florida. ''There's a lack of awareness and a lack of transportation. Access isn't easy.''
 Signing people up for benefits is more crucial than ever, as more working-class people are finding it difficult to make ends meet and are coming to food banks for help. 
 ''I keep hearing that demand is up and up and up,'' said Ross Fraser, a spokesman for Feeding America, which provides more than two billion pounds of food annually to food banks around the country. ''I heard one person saying they're feeding schoolteachers. The needle is moving higher up the socioeconomic class, and people making more money are needing emergency food assistance.''
 Bill Bolling, founder and executive director of the Atlanta Community Food Bank, said he had ''never seen anything'' like the current economic situation. 
 ''I've had people call me personally who have been donors for years, and said 'Bill, I need help,' '' Mr. Bolling said. ''That's disquieting to get those calls.'' 
 Food banks are trying to adapt to such outside forces.
 ''We're trying to navigate what is a time of great change in the work we do, and we're riding a roller coaster,'' said Kate Maehr, director of the Greater Chicago Food Depository, where need increased 33 percent this year from 2007. ''We have to figure out a new model and do it under pressure. It's hard, but what choice do we have?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dorothy Richmond, right, with Mary Hall, a food pantry host, picks through vegetables at St. Vincent de Paul in Wisconsin.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Shoppers at the St. Vincent de Paul Food Pantry in Madison, Wis., which resembles a grocery.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (97%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BREAST CANCER (55%); CANCER (53%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (53%); FOOD STAMPS (53%); CERVICAL CANCER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (69%) WISCONSIN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



339 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Member of a Panel Overseeing the Financial Bailout Objects to Its Findings

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
The lone Republican on a Congressional panel overseeing the $700 billion financial rescue plan has voted against its first advisory report, setting up a possible partisan rift as it is delivered to lawmakers on Wednesday.
 The report raises sharply critical questions about specific deals that the Treasury Department has made with the taxpayer-financed bailout.
 Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, who became the only Republican on the panel last week when Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire stepped down, said on Tuesday night that he voted against the initial report because ''the jury is still out'' on whether the panel was doing its work as he thought it should. 
 Mr. Hensarling questioned whether the panel's decisions ''are based on merit and not political considerations'' and whether ''every panel member has the resources and rights necessary to conduct effective oversight.'' Until his concerns are addressed, he said, ''I cannot in good conscience approve any reports.''
 With support from the three remaining members of the panel, the report will still be presented to lawmakers. It will outline 10 topics for both lawmakers and the panel itself to address as they monitor the financial rescue plan.
 The topics range from the general, like Treasury's overall strategy, to the practical, like the method it is using to decide which institutions get bailed out. But they all pose detailed questions that the panel says have not yet been answered by the administration.
 Several questions are aimed at assessing the bailout program's success so far in reducing foreclosures, stabilizing markets and helping American families. It specifically challenged Treasury to explain publicly why it did not support a foreclosure reduction plan proposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. It also asks the Treasury to outline its approach to bring down foreclosure rates. 
 In a particularly pointed criticism, the report said private investors seemed to have received much better terms on their investments in troubled financial institutions than the government had.
 For example, the Treasury Department worked out a complex blend of taxpayer investments and loan guarantees from federal bank regulators to aid the troubled Citigroup. 
 But, as the report said, Warren E. Buffett invested in Goldman Sachs in September, getting a future equity stake and an immediate issue of preferred shares that pay a 10 percent dividend and can be redeemed only at a 10 percent premium. Those terms were roughly similar to a deal under which a Mitsubishi unit invested $9 billion in Morgan Stanley in October.
 And the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority invested $7.5 billion in Citigroup itself in November, obtaining equity units paying an 11 percent dividend that can be converted into common stock in the future.
 In comparison, the report said, the Treasury received a future equity stake in Citigroup and an immediate issue of preferred shares that pay an annual dividend of 5 percent for five years and 9 percent thereafter -- less than the privately negotiated deals. Unlike the Goldman Sachs shares issued to Mr. Buffett, those shares are redeemable at face value, not at a premium, after three years.
 The panel said it intended to work with the Treasury, the Government Accountability Office and the Congressional Budget Office to determine how these and other capital investments were negotiated by the Treasury and whether taxpayers were adequately rewarded and protected by those arrangements.
 The panel also questioned a Treasury and Federal Reserve initiative to support consumer credit by providing $20 billion in credit protection to the secondary market for car loans, credit card balances, student loans and loans to small businesses.
 While increased consumer spending is important for economic recovery, financing that spending by increases in consumer debt will only add to the financial stress American families are experiencing, the report said.
 It also questioned whether Treasury was demanding enough of the institutions that received its help, particularly those engaged in consumer lending. 
 For instance, the British government has ordered credit card companies there to ''work with consumers,'' in some cases providing a 60-day moratorium on payments, as a condition of getting public money. 
 It called on the Treasury to use its leverage as rescuer in chief to demand the kind of corporate reforms and improved business plans among financial institutions that Congress was considering imposing on the auto industry as a condition of its bailout plan.
 It is not clear yet whether the squabble surrounding the panel's first vote will deter its effort to provide Congress with a clearer road map for monitoring the bailout effort.
 Both Elizabeth Warren, the panel's chairwoman and a consumer bankruptcy law professor at Harvard, and Mr. Hensarling are scheduled to testify on Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee as it continues its examination of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the keystone in the financial rescue plan.
 Ms. Warren said Mr. Hensarling had not raised any specific disagreements with the report, which calls for more focused attention on how the bailout program is working. Indeed, Ms. Warren said, he had contributed one of its main sections.
 Nor had he or others in the Republican leadership complained that political considerations were shaping the panel's research, Ms. Warren said. ''How the Treasury Department has spent American taxpayers' money is not a partisan question,'' she said. ''We all realize that.''
 The bailout legislation was approved with bipartisan support in both houses of Congress and signed into law by President Bush in early October. A five-member oversight panel was created by that law, with the Democratic Congressional leadership naming three members and the Republican leadership naming two.
 Mr. Hensarling is still on board, but the Republican leadership has not yet filled the vacancy created when Mr. Gregg stepped down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the only Republican on the Congressional panel, said he questioned some decisions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (84%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (63%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (62%); DIVIDENDS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: JEB HENSARLING (88%); JUDD GREGG (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



340 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: The Newspaper Bubble, Too, Has Burst

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; Zachery Kouwe contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The bankruptcy filing of the Tribune Company on Monday is just the latest, largest evidence that the American newspaper industry is suffering the hangover from an immense buying spree in 2006 and 2007 at what turned out to be the worst possible time for the buyers, just as the business was about to enter a drastic decline.
 Newspapers would be in trouble either way. The steady leak of advertising and readers from print to the Web has become a widening torrent in this recession year. Most newspapers remain profitable, but the margins are dropping fast, with the industry losing about 15 percent of its ad revenue this year. 
 But the companies in the weakest condition are there largely because they borrowed a lot of money to buy papers, often at inflated prices, and the biggest of those deals were struck in 2006 and early 2007. Tribune's was the biggest of those deals, $8.2 billion to take private the company whose assets include The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and 23 television stations, a transaction that almost tripled the company's debt.
 In the year before that takeover was announced, the McClatchy Company bought Knight Ridder, including papers like The Miami Herald and The Kansas City Star; the MediaNews Group bought several papers, including The San Jose Mercury News and The Pioneer Press in St. Paul; investors in Philadelphia bought The Inquirer and The Daily News; a private equity firm, Avista Capital Partners, bought The Star Tribune in Minneapolis. Smaller companies like GateHouse Media bought up dozens of local papers.
 If it were possible to unwind those deals, ''the business would still be in pretty difficult shape,'' said John Puchalla, a vice president and senior analyst for Moody's Investors Service.
 ''It wouldn't have changed the downturn,'' he said. ''But it sure would have changed the vulnerability to the downturn. Ten to 15 years ago, most newspapers were carrying a pretty low amount of debt. But companies have levered up over time, and in the last couple of years, some companies pushed it too far.''
 Most newspapers still have earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization that are equal to 10 to 20 percent of their revenue. That is down from 20 to 30 percent in the middle of this decade, but tolerable -- if not for the burden of making debt payments.
 The Star Tribune, the Philadelphia papers and the Journal Register Company, publisher of The New Haven Register, have all suspended debt payments while trying to reach sustainable new terms with their lenders. Executives at the Minneapolis paper have talked of bankruptcy.
 McClatchy and MediaNews have succeeded in paying down their debts to more manageable levels, but they also had to negotiate new terms this year with their creditors. Freedom Communications, which publishes The Orange County Register, recently warned that it might not be in compliance with the cash-flow requirements in its debt covenants.
 Credit ratings for nearly every newspaper company judged by the major ratings agencies have been downgraded well below investment grade.
 ''I think there will be more pressure on these companies, and more bankruptcies,'' said Dave Novosel, senior analyst at Gimme Credit, a research firm.
 Some newspaper companies would like to merge with others in the same region, but have been barred from doing so by media ownership regulations. A 2006 deal in the San Francisco Bay Area between MediaNews and one of its investors, the privately held Hearst Corporation, which publishes The San Francisco Chronicle, was blocked on that basis.
 Putting papers up for sale, as several troubled companies have done, will not solve the industry's problems, said David C. Joyce, a media analyst at Miller Tabak & Company, a small investment banking firm.
 ''Selling assets also means selling off cash flow, and they need that cash flow to service the debt,'' he said. ''And any sales would be fairly close to fire-sale prices, because people aren't buying assets, especially in the newspaper business.''
 There are some exceptions to this story, including the Gannett Company, the largest newspaper chain in the country. Companies like Gannett that do not have a lot of debt, and did not make major new newspaper acquisitions in recent years, are in much better shape than their peers, despite sharp revenue declines.
 Looking back, what happened to newspapers in 2006 and 2007 directly paralleled the bubble in the housing market, with similar results.
 ''There was very cheap credit available,'' despite risks that should have been obvious to everyone, Mr. Novosel said. ''The banks were willing to lend, and people were willing to buy at these prices because they figured if asset prices kept going up, they'd be fine.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); EBITDA (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (66%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%); MCCLATCHY CO (83%); AVISTA CAPITAL PARTNERS LP (82%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); JOURNAL REGISTER CO (62%); GATEHOUSE MEDIA INC (54%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



341 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Oil Declines on Forecast of a Drop in Consumption

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Oil prices fell nearly 4 percent on Tuesday after the government forecast the world economic slowdown would shrink global oil consumption this year for the first time since the early 1980s. 
 Crude oil in New York trading fell $1.64, or 3.7 percent, to settle at $42.07 a barrel.
 The Energy Information Administration said in its monthly energy outlook that it expected global oil demand to fall by 50,000 barrels a day in 2008 and 450,000 barrels a day in 2009 -- marking the first time since 1983 that year-to-year world oil demand has dropped.
 The lower forecast came as the agency revised its 2009 world growth estimate for gross domestic product to 0.5 percent, down from last month's estimate of 1.8 percent. The agency estimates 2008 G.D.P. growth will end up at 2.7 percent.
 ''The E.I.A. forecast is overly optimistic. I expect a significant contraction in demand, given the current state of the global economy,'' Tom Knight, a trader at Truman Arnold, said.
 Adding to the economic gloom, Japan sank further into recession in the third quarter, new European economic indicators showed the downturn there is deepening, and Canada declared itself in recession on Tuesday.
 The global economic crisis has sent oil prices spiraling down from record peaks above $145 a barrel in July, raising concern among members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
 Analysts expect the group to reduce output by at least a million barrels a day when it meets next Wednesday in Algeria, after agreeing to cut supplies by 2 million bpd since September.
 ''Oil is on a count-down to OPEC now, and everyone is expecting them to come up with something big -- probably a cut of 1 to 1.5 million b.p.d.,'' said Rob Laughlin, senior oil analyst at brokers MF Global in London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (58%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ALGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



342 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Economic Unease In N.H.L.

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The N.H.L. Board of Governors concluded its annual December meetings in Palm Beach, Fla., on Tuesday, focusing on the downturn in the economy.
 Discussions on the expected decline in the salary cap, which is tied to league revenue, dominated Day 2 of the meetings among owners and general managers. Afterward, some owners said that they would be far more cautious about giving lucrative long-term contracts to players. 
 ''Those are real dollars flying out the door, it's not hypothetical,'' the Ottawa Senators' owner, Eugene Melnyk, told The Canadian Press. ''So we're working on various scenarios, and one of them is based on a significant downturn in the economy, if it happens.''
 Other team executives expressed uncertainty. 
 ''We're going into territory that nobody's really been in,'' Detroit Red Wings General Manager Ken Holland told The Associated Press. ''So to say I've got a game plan, I don't know how anybody could have a game plan. You don't know from week to week what's going on. It appears it's going to take a long time to pull out of this.''
 The salary cap discussion came after Monday's session, at which team executives were briefed on the current and future consequences of the recession by two high-ranking officials with Scotiabank and JPMorgan Chase.
 Bill Daly, the league's deputy commissioner, told The Canadian Press that it was a ''pretty dark'' picture. 
 To some owners, the presentation was a revelation. 
 ''It was sobering,'' said the Oilers' chief executive, Patrick LaForge, whose team operates in oil-rich northern Alberta, which so far has been relatively untouched by the recession. ''I hadn't heard it in that kind of detail, and if you're in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, you're just not running into a lot of U.S. economists. You get a bit of a western Canadian view. When you look at all of North America, it becomes a little a more dark and deep.''
 The team executives also discussed a key on-ice issue, the increase in dangerous checks to the head. 
 The Dallas Stars' owner, Tom Hicks, also told reporters that he would meet on Wednesday with the team's co-general managers, Brett Hull and Les Jackson, and the team president, Jeff Cogan, to determine the future of the suspended center Sean Avery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); DALLAS STARS LP (62%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); OTTAWA SENATORS (57%); DETROIT RED WINGS (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); BNS (TSX) (54%); BNS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (62%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (62%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



343 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Cannon In Hall of Fame

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Twenty-two years after being released from prison and 11 since he was unemployed and broke, Billy Cannon, an all-American running back and Heisman Trophy winner at Louisiana State, was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame. Joining Cannon, 72, in this year's Hall of Fame class were Troy Aikman of U.C.L.A. and Thurman Thomas of Oklahoma State, recent inductees into the Pro Football Hall. 
 The other players were Don McPherson of Syracuse, Jim Dombrowski of Virginia, Pat Fitzgerald of Northwestern, Wilber Marshall of Florida, Jay Novacek of Wyoming, Dave Parks of Texas Tech, Randall McDaniel of Arizona State, Ron Simmons of Florida State, Rueben Mayes of Washington State and Arnold Tucker of Army. John Cooper and Lou Holtz were elected as coaches.
 In 1983, Cannon was elected to the Hall of Fame, but he never was inducted. The honor was rescinded after he was arrested on federal counterfeiting charges. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to five years in federal prison in 1983. He served two and a half years. 
 The Wake Forest senior Aaron Curry won the Butkus Award, honoring the nation's top college linebacker. Curry received 63 points in voting, finishing 7 ahead of Rey Maualuga of Southern California. James Laurinaitis from Ohio State, U.S.C.'s Brian Cushing and Boston College's Mark Herzlich. butkus 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); SENTENCING (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ARRESTS (67%); COUNTERFEITING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%); BOSTON COLLEGE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



344 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, December 10, 2008

 BODY:
Foreign
 SPAIN ROLLS UP THE WELCOME MAT
 Jobs in Spain are disappearing, and the government is encouraging immigrant workers to return home. Still, the country may become a laboratory for the strains that emerge when those workers are unemployed, yet stay put. PAGE A14 
 NEW LEADER OF CANADIAN PARTY
 Michael Ignatieff, a former journalist and director of a human rights center, became the effective leader of the Liberal Party of Canada. PAGE A12 
 BUSH WARNS PAKISTAN 
 President Bush cautioned Pakistan that ''we will do what is necessary to protect American troops and the American people'' and defended his principle of military intervention to shut down potential national security threats before they mature. PAGE A10 
 MUMBAI ATTACKERS PART OF POOL
 The 10 men who carried out the terrorist attacks in Mumbai were among 30 recruits selected for suicide missions, and the whereabouts of the other 20 are unknown, Indian police officials said. PAGE A14 
 Pakistan Moves Against Militants A6 Sark Journal
 Islanders Feud Over the Future
 A dispute has poisoned relations among the 600 residents of Sark, an island in the English Channel, as it prepares for its first democratic election. One side is somewhat wary of change. The other side supports the development plans of identical-twin British billionaires. PAGE A22 
 NOBEL WINNER BACKS KOSOVO STATE
 Former President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, who is scheduled to receive the Nobel Peace Prize for mediating conflicts, spoke in favor of Kosovo's claim to independence, saying ''progress there was irreversible.'' As he spoke, United Nations officials in Kosovo were handing over policing responsibilities to the European Union and local authorities. PAGE A8 
 REPORT ON AVOIDABLE CHILD DEATHS
 A United Nations report estimated that 830,000 children -- the equivalent of all the children in Chicago -- are killed by accidents every year. The major types of fatal injuries are drowning, burns, traffic accidents, falls and poisoning. PAGE A8
 WOULD-BE BOMBER GETS LIFE
 One of the two men behind a failed terrorist attack in Germany was sentenced to life in prison. The man, Youssef Muhammad el-Hajdib, was convicted on multiple counts of attempted murder for leaving two suitcase bombs on trains in Cologne in July 2006. The bombs failed to explode. PAGE A22 
 A New Flotilla to Ward Off Pirates A18 
 National
 PROSECUTORS SAY GOVERNOR
 Threatened Tribune for Criticism
 The Tribune Company, which filed for bankruptcy yesterday, probably had enough problems. But federal law enforcement officials said the governor of Illinois, Rod R. Blagojevich, had been illegally threatening to withhold the state's help in a business deal unless the company's flagship, The Chicago Tribune, fired editorial writers who had criticized the governor and called for his impeachment. PAGE A33
 Prosecutor Is a Chicago Hero A33
 BANK MULLS LOAN TO PAY WORKERS
 Bank of America said it hoped to provide a limited amount of credit to allow a shuttered Chicago window and door factory to pay money owed to 250 plant workers who recently lost their jobs. Many of the workers had been peacefully occupying the plant for five days to protest losing their jobs and had become a symbol of resistance for workers laid off across the country. page A23
 TESTS SHOW U.S. GAINS IN MATH
 An international survey on student achievement found that American fourth- and eighth-grade students made solid achievement gains in math in recent years. In Massachusetts and Minnesota in particular, students showed spectacular progress, outperforming classmates in all but a handful of countries. But on average, the results also showed that several Asian countries had increased their dominance. PAGE A23
 IOWA JUSTICES HEAR MARRIAGE CASE
 In a case that could make Iowa the first Midwestern state to legalize same-sex marriage, the Iowa Supreme Court pressed lawyers for both sides with sharp questions on topics like the 4,000-year-old history of marriage and whether a ruling favoring gay couples would open the door to polygamy. PAGE A26
 JUSTICES WEIGH LAWYER MISCONDUCT
 The Supreme Court considered arguments over whether Tennessee prosecutors had overreached in obtaining and defending a death sentence against a man who murdered a Memphis couple in 1980. It was the third time that the court considered the case, and the hearing was filled with several testy exchanges. PAGE A8
 APPEAL HEARING FOR EX-GOVERNOR
 A lawyer for former Alabama Gov. Don Siegelman appeared before a federal appeals court panel and urged it to overturn his 2006 bribery conviction. But the judges focused unexpectedly on a smaller crime for which Mr. Siegelman was sentenced, which cast doubt on whether the judges would accept the principal claim in his appeal when it makes its ruling. PAGE a28
 New York
 LOBBYING FOR CAROLINE KENNEDY? 
 Uncle and Paterson Say No
 Gov. David A. Paterson and Senator Edward M. Kennedy's office both said that Mr. Kennedy had not lobbied the governor for his niece Caroline Kennedy to be selected to fill the seat expected to be vacated by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. ''He hasn't sent any message to me from anyone,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''And no one has even called me and said they've spoken to him.'' PAGE A38
 AIDE WORKED FOR ILLINOIS GOVERNOR
 Bradley Tusk, the campaign manager for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election effort, is a former top deputy and trusted adviser to Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, who was arrested. ''Bradley is an honest, hard-working, competent guy,'' Mr. Bloomberg said when asked about Mr. Tusk, who he added ''never had anything to do with parts of that administration.'' Page A37
 What New Yorkers Google A33
 Business
 FIGHTER JET PROGRAM POSES
 A Quandary for Obama
 The F-22 fighter jet will put two of President-elect Barack Obama's stated goals -- cutting wasteful spending and saving or creating millions of jobs -- at odds. Continuing the program for the fighter will preserve thousands of jobs related to building them. But the jet's critics, who include Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, have said the military should focus its resources more on fighting insurgencies like those in Iraq and Afghanistan. PAGE B1
 WORRIES ABOUT HOUSING'S STAR
 During the subprime boom, the Federal Housing Agency, which helps low-income and first-time buyers purchase homes, mostly sat out the party as borrowers opted for conventional loans. Now it's a star of the real estate market, but some worry that the agency will be a target of subprime fraud artists. PAGE B1
 KEEPING THEIR HEADS DOWN
 In the heated debate over a federal bailout for Detroit's struggling car manufacturers, foreign car companies have been notably silent. They have even been pointed to as role models for the Big Three -- a marked contrast to trade tensions in the nation's capital a generation ago, when Congress threatened to limit sales of Japanese cars in the United States. PAGE B1
 White House Pushes for Bailout B4
 KEEPING LENO IS A GAMBLE FOR NBC
 When Jay Leno's prime time show has its debut next year, it could have a major ramifications for the network entertainment business. PAGE B8
 Advertisers Applaud Leno Move B8
 Sports
 AN UNLIKELY DEFENSE OF THE B.C.S.
 Texas Tech was left out of the title game conversation in the Bowl Championship Series despite a stellar season. Is that another argument for college football to switch to a playoff format? ''Don't get me started on that soapbox,'' the father of the team's star quarterback said, before making an eloquent case for leaving the system pretty much as is. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE B12 
 METS SIGN RECORD-SETTER FOR RELIEF
 The Mets' relief pitching has been their Achilles' heel for two seasons, collapsing each year. On Tuesday, the team signed Francisco Rodriguez, who set a major league record with 62 saves last season, to a $37 million deal that will make him the team's new closer. PAGE B14
 N.F.L. to Cut 10 Percent of Its Staff B12
 arts
 SELLING HOPE FOR A SONG
 Like every other industry, Broadway is taking its lumps this season. But some theater veterans are hoping that as portfolios go down, the appetite for entertainment will go up. Disney is banking on the idea by altering its marketing to fit the mood. ''We're adjusting the message to include comfort in addition to escapism,'' the executive vice president of Disney Theatrical Productions said. PAGE C1
 Film Review
 'The Reader'
 The film, directed by Stephen Daldry, is a scrupulously tasteful recounting of an erotic affair that turns to love during the Holocaust, focusing on the generation of Germans who came of age after that catastrophe. But really it's about making the audience feel good about a historical disaster that grows fainter with each new tasteful interpolation, Manohla Dargis writes. PAGE C1
 Music Review
 Making It Look All Too Easy
 Bradford Cox, the singer and songwriter of Deerhunter, was all efficacy, teasing and easy professionalism at the Music Hall of Williamsburg, where the band headlined a concert, Ben Ratliff writes. These musicians have nailed every corner of their music, with its sequence of guitar solos and mesmerizing momentum. PAGE C5
 Metal Played Deep Into the Night C3
 Book Review
 'Graham Greene: A Life in Letters'
 Graham Greene published more than 25 novels, but was committed to yet another genre: he was among the 20th century's most obsessive letter writers. He dashed off some 2,000 letters or postcards each year to family, friends, lovers, editors, agents and a galaxy of fellow writers. Tens of thousands of letters have been pared down to a tidy 400 in ''Graham Greene: A Life in Letters,'' which reads like brisk, epistolary biography, Dwight Garner writes. PAGE C8
 Obituaries
 ARTHUR ROBERT KANTROWITZ, 95
 His research into the behavior of super hot gases and fluid dynamics led to innovations in areas as varied as rocket making and heart-assist pumps. He also founded and directed the Avco Everett Research Laboratory in Massachusetts, taught at Cornell and Dartmouth, advised President Gerald R. Ford and served on the board of the television program ''Nova.'' PAGE A34
 Editorial
 THE STRANGE TALE OF GOVERNOR BLAGOJEVICH
 We have seen a lot of political hubris, scratch-my-back politics and sheer stupidity over the years. But nothing could prepare us for the charges brought Tuesday against Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois. PAGE A40 
 ACCOUNTABILITY AND THE COURT
 The Bush administration has spent the last eight years undermining the fundamental ideal that no one is supposed to be above the law. The Supreme Court has a chance to redress this when it rules on a lawsuit against John Ashcroft, the former attorney general. PAGE A40 
 (GENERIC) DRUG RESISTANCE
 Health care reformers have high hopes for replacing brand-name medicines with cheaper generic equivalents. But so many physicians are so captive of the drug industry that it would take a huge effort to persuade more patients and doctors to use generics. PAGE A40 
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Someone in Denmark and Tel Aviv is developing a real-world alternative to Detroit's business model. It's not clear whether this alternative to gasoline-powered cars will work, but it clearly can be done -- and Detroit isn't doing it. PAGE A41 
 STATE OF SHAME
 In an Op-Ed article, Scott Turow, the author of ''Presumed Innocent'' and a former federal prosecutor, writes that the alleged crimes of Gov. Rod Blagojevich of Illinois were so brazen that they prompted Patrick Fitzgerald, a United States attorney, to do something he rarely does: bring charges quickly. PAGE A41

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); PRISONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); WRITERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (67%); SENTENCING (66%); LITIGATION (66%); BURN INJURIES (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (61%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); MURDER (54%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (51%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) SPAIN (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); INDIA (92%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); GERMANY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



345 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Rent Paid, an Actor's Good Cheer Is No Longer an Act

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
No matter how bad things got in New York, Charleston Draper, an actor, vowed he would never tell his family back home. And he didn't, not after his roommate vanished, leaving him to shoulder the rent and bills; not after he moved into the Harlem Y.M.C.A.; not after he ran out of money and moved into a homeless shelter.
 Even this past spring, when eviction notices began showing up at his current apartment, a sanctuary he found after saving money and searching for months, he kept his voice bright whenever his sister or mother called. 
 ''I prayed every night, and cried,'' said Mr. Draper, sitting in his apartment one recent rainy afternoon. ''But I put on a big charade, and not one time did they suspect. I don't feel abashed about what happened. It can happen to anybody. It happens to good people all the time.''
 Mr. Draper, who will turn 39 on Sunday, is an honors graduate from Morehouse College in Atlanta, where he majored in theater before moving to New York in January 2003 to chase a dream. 
 Life in New York, though, proved tougher than Mr. Draper had expected. Acting jobs were scarce, and even though he landed a few temp jobs, he burned through the savings he had amassed in Atlanta. After the roommate with whom he had been living in White Plains left without notice in June 2003, Mr. Draper found a tiny bedroom at the Y.M.C.A. that cost $700 a month. Six months later, he was told that his bed was needed by somebody else. 
 About that time, he got a call from his mother, Franky Harris, a sergeant with the Army. ''I'm being deployed to Iraq,'' she told her son, who froze with shock at the other end of the line.
 ''All I could think of was what she was going through, and not to complain,'' Mr. Draper recalled.
 He moved into the Bowery Mission Transitional Center, which helps recovering addicts and the homeless, and found a job that paid $11 an hour at a Home Depot in the Bronx. His commute was two hours each way. Determined to get out of the shelter, Mr. Draper combed Harlem's streets in his spare time. Every day for months he phoned landlords who owned designated low-income apartments. Finally, in December 2004, he caught a break, and moved into a rent-stabilized one-bedroom apartment on West 127th Street. 
 Until then, Mr. Draper had been keeping his old furniture, some of it passed down through his family, in storage in Atlanta. When the movers carried the first box into his new apartment in Harlem, he wept. 
 ''After all I had been through, I couldn't even feel the fact that I had my own place again,'' he said. 
 Mr. Draper quit Home Depot, and focused on landing acting roles, scraping by with more temp work and sporadic acting parts. On several occasions, he also met, by happenstance, his idol, the actress and singer Vanessa Williams. Yet life was not easy; in 2005, his father, Charleston Draper Sr., died of a heart attack. The next year, Mr. Draper's mother, who had been injured, returned from Iraq. 
 In late 2007, the Writers Guild of America went on strike, and the small possibility of parts dried up. So did the temp work, and to Mr. Draper's horror, he began falling behind on rent. 
 At first, he went to his friends for help, and the landlord gave him extra time to pay. ''But I kept on getting deeper,'' Mr. Draper said. Early in May 2008, the first eviction notice arrived. 
 Scouring the Internet, he came across the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, which is one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The federation agreed to pay one month of Mr. Draper's back rent, and another social service agency paid another month's rent, helping Mr. Draper stave off eviction. Last month, he began receiving unemployment benefits. And now, once again, he is throwing himself into auditions, determined as ever to realize his dream.
 ''I have the talent, and I believe in the craft,'' Mr. Draper said. ''This is what I love to do.'' 
 How to Help
 Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to:
 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. 
 All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. Checks intended for a particular Neediest agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest gift.
 BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217
 CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201
 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022
 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010
 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010
 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010
 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100
 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest.
 For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 730- 0927.
 No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After going through a seemingly hopeless time, Charleston Draper has his own apartment with his own possessions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (78%); EVICTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (67%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



346 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Troubles Are Moving Downtown

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Like others who got caught up in the recent commercial real estate frenzy, Joseph Moinian, the owner of 20 million square feet of office towers, apartment buildings and hotels throughout the country, sought to take advantage of the huge run-up in values as banks feverishly competed to make loans with exceedingly generous terms. 
 But now that office rents in Manhattan and elsewhere are declining and empty space is beginning to flood the market, Mr. Moinian, who is developing a 58-story W hotel and residential tower just south of the World Trade Center, finds himself with a problem.
 He recently missed part of a $319,000 monthly payment on a $66.5 million mortgage for 60 Madison Avenue, a second-tier Midtown Manhattan office building that he refinanced in April 2007, Commercial Mortgage Alert, a trade publication, reported in October. The cash flow from the property does not come close to what was projected in the loan documents, according to Realpoint, a credit ratings agency which has put the loan on its watch list. 
 Mr. Moinian quickly made good on the delinquent payment and has pledged to keep current on future payments, but his difficulties demonstrate that the troubles that have already begun to afflict the commercial real estate industry will be widespread and not limited to high-profile deals. 
 So far, the delinquency rate for loans that were packaged and sold to investors as commercial mortgage-backed securities and are at least 30 days behind is only 0.63 percent, Realpoint said. But the unpaid balance of delinquent loans -- $5.3 billion as of October -- has increased by 70 percent since January. 
 And analysts say the low default rate is deceptive. For one thing, as banks competed for business during the heady period from 2005 to 2007, most of the loans they wrote were interest-only, at least initially, so monthly payments were artificially low for the first few years, said Mike Kirby, a principal in Green Street Advisors, a research company.
 Delinquencies are expected to accelerate next year. And many more delinquencies and defaults are expected in 2010, when five-year interest-only loans issued in 2005 begin to mature and borrowers are unable to refinance them because credit is scarce and property values have declined instead of risen. 
 ''Defaults on mortgages are a trickle right now, but the pace will pick up over the next year, more than I would have thought in October,'' Mr. Kirby said. ''It's coming, and it can't be avoided. There's going to be a lot of it, and it's going to be bad.''
 As the market heated up in the middle of the decade, the volume of securitized loans exploded -- to $200 billion a year in the period from 2005 to 2007, from $70 billion a year in the 2000-to-2004 period, according to Green Street. And as volume picked up, projections of rent growth became increasingly optimistic and the reserve funds intended to make up for the amount not covered by the property's cash flow were often inadequate, analysts said. The $1.5 million debt-service reserve fund for 60 Madison Avenue has dwindled to $7.80, Realpoint said.
 ''The underwriters were very aggressive,'' said Victor Franco M. Calanog, the senior economist at Reis, a research company. ''They were under a lot of pressure for deals to be made. They allowed investors to take a lot of risks.''
 When Mr. Moinian refinanced 60 Madison Avenue, a 1910 building at 27th Street, it was 86.5 percent occupied. But the 10-year loan was underwritten for occupancy of 95.1 percent, according to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the interim, the building has lost tenants instead of gaining them. CoStar Group, a research company, said that occupancy was now 66 percent.
 The mortgage was written as if the annual net cash flow from the building amounted to $4.9 million, when in fact the building was generating only $3.2 million then and is bringing in only $1.9 million now, Realpoint said. 
 Mr. Moinian, a co-owner of the Sears Tower in Chicago, declined to be interviewed. But he told Commercial Mortgage Alert that he made up the shortfall in the debt service payment as soon as he learned about it. ''We will continue to make all payments promptly,'' he said in a statement.
 Some borrowers are already rushing to try to renegotiate their loans because the current terms are untenable. This can only be done by transferring the mortgage to a special servicer, a financial services unit that is charged with resolving problems with distressed assets in the interests of investors. 
 Last month, the industry was shocked to discover that two loans JPMorgan Chase had packaged with other mortgages and sold to investors in May as a commercial-mortgage-backed security were delinquent. Both loans -- one for an open-air shopping center in the Southern California community of Corona, and another for Westin hotels in Tucson and Hilton Head, S.C. -- were transferred to a so-called special servicer. 
 The transfer startled investors because the loans were originated and sold to investors long after the credit squeeze became apparent in the summer of 2007, said Steve Kuritz, a Realpoint senior vice president. ''You would figure a 2008 deal would be a little cleaner,'' he said.
 The 350,000-square-foot shopping center, the Promenade Shops at Dos Lagos, was developed by Poag & McEwen, a Memphis company that is often credited with originating the concept of ''lifestyle center'' -- a retail property without a roof or a traditional department store anchor that is aimed at relatively affluent shoppers. The loan anticipated that the shopping center would bring in $10.5 million a year, but the net operating income for 2007 was only $6.3 million, Realpoint said.
 Josh Poag, the chief operating officer of Poag & McEwen, said the shopping center had been on track to achieve revenue goals until the retail industry began to struggle. He said the shopping center also faced competition from other projects that sprang up anticipating further growth in the counties east of Los Angeles, where Corona is located. Instead, the area is among those hit especially hard by the housing crisis.
 ''We've had three retailers close their doors,'' Mr. Poag said. ''Other retailers are struggling to meet their payments and some are getting dangerously late -- are on the verge of not paying the rent.'' He said the company believed in the shopping center's prospects and hoped to work out a solution with the special servicer.
 As the recession progresses, many borrowers with leveraged loans will seek to modify terms, said Alan L. Todd, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase. ''If the borrower knows that going forward, the cash flow, or net operating income, is expected to drop, the first time they hit a 30-day delinquency, they're going to say, 'I need help,' '' he said. ''They can see how it is going to play out.''
 But there is likely to be a tug of war between property owners and investors who bought the bonds backed by the mortgages. The owners will want their mortgages extended, said Orest Mandzy, the managing editor of Commercial Real Estate Direct, a news service. But holders of AAA-rated bonds, the least risky, are likely to press the special servicer to sell the loan so that they can get their money back. ''That's going to be the sort of battle that goes on,'' Mr. Mandzy said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The loan for the Promenade Shops at Dos Lagos, in Corona, Calif., has been turned over to a special servicer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Coming Due: Volume of commercial mortgage-backed security loans maturing in each of the next four years.(Source: Reis Inc.) Chart details bar graph for years 2009-2012 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); SECURITIZATION (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%); GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



347 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Merck Restructuring Puts a Focus on Generic Drugs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WHITEHOUSE STATION, N.J. 

 BODY:
(AP) The drug maker Merck & Company said Tuesday that it was taking steps to become a leader in generic biotechnology drugs and sales in emerging markets, diversifying its research through partnerships and new technologies and working to maximize long-term sales of crucial products. 
 During its annual business briefing, Merck tried to reassure investors that it has the right strategy to resume growing -- after recently announcing another major restructuring and forecasting lower profits and flat revenue in 2009 because of generic competition, the recession and other problems.
 ''Merck has been through tough times before and has rebounded in ways that few other companies have,'' the chief executive, Richard T. Clark, told analysts, probably referring to the debacle over the withdrawn painkiller, Vioxx.
 He vowed to ensure the company rebounds after a year of transition in 2009, predicting Merck ''will be one of the winners in the pharmaceutical industry of the future.''
 The company makes the respiratory drug Singulair and the cholesterol drugs Vytorin and Zetia. It has been dogged by plans to seek approval for three new drugs next year, has seven more in late-stage testing and will start late-stage tests on six others in 2009.
 Merck is starting a new division called Merck BioVentures to make both new and follow-on, or generic, biotech drugs, management told analysts gathered at its headquarters. Such generic biologic drugs, while starting to arrive in Europe, are not yet allowed in the United States -- but that will probably be a hot issue in Washington next year.
 The unit will use new science to speed up drug development, including glycoengineering, a technology Merck got with a 2006 acquisition that uses yeast to rapidly make antibodies and other proteins for drugs.
 Peter Kim, president of Merck Research Laboratories, said the unit would invest $1.5 billion in research by 2015 and build a commercial factory by 2012, and aimed to start six or more generic biotech products from 2012 through 2017.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (75%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); APPROVALS (66%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (63%); CHOLESTEROL (53%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (96%); MERCK RESEARCH LABORATORIES (53%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (96%); MRK (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



348 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Canada Cuts Interest Rates

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
After acknowledging for the first time that Canada is entering a recession, the Bank of Canada cut its key interest rate on Tuesday by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 1.5 percent, a 50-year low. 
 The lack of a mortgage and banking crisis in Canada had shielded the country somewhat from the economic downturn. But a sharp drop in exports to the United States, particularly of automobiles and auto parts, combined with a collapse in energy and commodity prices has brought it into the point of a recession.
 The central bank's level of concern was highlighted by the extent of Tuesday's rate cut. Most economists had expected half a percentage point.
 The move may further inflame an economic debate that has created political turmoil in Canada. The Conservative government of Prime Minister Stephen Harper shut down Parliament last week to avoid a vote of no confidence in an economic program it announced last month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); BANK FAILURES (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (85%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



349 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; $25 AND UNDER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: The Price Isn't the Only Thrill

BYLINE: By OLIVER SCHWANER-ALBRIGHT

 BODY:
SOME of the most exciting meals I've had recently in Manhattan were also the least expensive. 
 By ''meals'' I mean proper sit-down dinners in restaurants with waiters, table settings and at least a nod to decor. By ''inexpensive'' I mean that the cost of an appetizer and a main course fits this column's limit. 
 And by ''exciting'' I don't mean new. Just because a restaurant has tattered reviews taped to the door doesn't mean it isn't performing at its peak, turning out food that's not only comforting, but delicious and thrilling. 
 Take Village Yokocho (8 Stuyvesant Street, near Third Avenue, 212-598-3041), a crowded Japanese spot hiding in plain sight -- it's what you walk through to get to the bar Angel's Share. I'm always intrigued by the posted specials. Meticulously lettered in Magic Marker, most are in Japanese, some have baffling drawings. Why is a crab under an umbrella? Why does a mushroom look confused? 
 You could ask, or you could stick with the bilingual menu, six pages of yakitori, kushiage (breaded and fried bites), broiled seafood and other small plates, most for $2 to $7 and meant for sharing. Raw squid tossed in spicy chili paste ($4.50) could get things going, followed by a five-skewer yakitori combo ($9) and a languorous bowl of nabeyaki udon ($8), a wintry soup filled with chicken, fish cakes and an egg that poaches in the broth. 
 I wish there was a better shorthand for this kind of grazing than ''tapas,'' but that's the word Village Yokocho uses. And the same word introduces the 25 items on the menu at Kuma Inn (113 Ludlow Street, near Delancey Street, 212-353-8866), a tiny Thai-influenced Filipino restaurant at the top of a steep flight of stairs. (In another bit of nighttime symbiosis, the relocated Mehanata, known as the Bulgarian Bar, is in the basement.) 
 The Kuma Bolognese ($9) is tapas-size: three rice crepes steamed then fried and served with ground pork cooked down with bean paste. But there's so much flavor in a sauce brightened with lime and chili it's as satisfying as a main course. The lechon ($10) is simply an entree in small-plate's clothing. A sizable slab of deep-fried pork belly, it's more than enough pig for two. 
 Diminutive as it is, Kuma Inn had two waiters, one more than at Gazala Place (709 Ninth Avenue, near 49th Street, 212-245-0709), a Druze-tinged spot with some of the best Middle Eastern food in New York. That single waiter never lost her good humor and never stopped moving, swinging like a metronome between the kitchen and the dimly lighted tables, delivering bowls of chickpea-studded hummus moudammas ($5), which arrive with saag pita, a thin flatbread made daily on the dome-shaped saag in front, and burekas, flaky pastries filled with goat cheese and sun-dried tomatoes. As my companion put it, it tasted like the best Croissanwich ever.
 The kitchen has a light and sure touch. The kebab halabi ($12.95), grilled skewers of ground spiced lamb and beef, was tender and juicy with a satisfying char. The osh al-saraia ($3.50), a yogurt and spongecake dessert soaked with rosewater and honey looked like cafeteria pudding, but had the delicate flavors of a more elegant confection.
 Gazala Place squeezes you into an alliance with your neighbors: you have to listen to their conversations and envy their food. It couldn't be more different at the grand Congee Bowery (207 Bowery, near Delancey Street, 212-766-2828), a multilevel Chinese place with shark fins on display by the register and a private karaoke hall in the basement. 
 The menu is so exhaustive it's exhausting. I followed a friend's advice and ordered House Special Chicken ($18), a whole roast chicken for two splayed open, varnished with soy sauce, crisp and succulent. It sounds familiar but it tastes unusually lively. Even snow pea shoots with garlic ($11.95), so often stringy, arrive in a generous, leafy mound. 
 In fact, generosity is a virtue all of these restaurants have in common. Take the kaima idli ($7.99) at the vegetarian Southern India-style restaurant Saravana Bhavan (81 Lexington Avenue, near 26th Street, 212-684-7755). It is an enormous serving of chopped idli, fried until crisp and sauteed in a sauce of spices and onions. It had an appealing touch of heat, and I would have been satisfied with half the portion, but that didn't stop me from eating the whole thing. And regretting it a little when served a Mysore onion dosa ($9.15) so large it extended well beyond the bounds of its platter. 
 But I still don't understand the economic model behind the chicken Pio ($9.75), a whole Peruvian-style roasted chicken that's the trademark dish at Pio Pio Salon (702 Amsterdam Avenue, at 94th Street, 212-665-3000), the sixth of seven Pio Pios, and the largest in Manhattan. The chicken has an addictively tangy note, and it arrives with a spicy sauce made from cilantro, lime and huacatay, an Andean mint; it would be a bargain at twice the price. Add sides of rice ($3) and maduros ($3), sweet plantains, and it's an avalanche of food.
 But you should still start with ceviche Lima style ($10), tender marinated corvina, a kind of bass. And order a round of frothy pisco sours ($8 each), the most authentic Peruvian version I've found in New York. Even on a budget you should be able to indulge in what makes dining out so much fun.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VEGGIES: At Saravana Bhavan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD: Gazala Place, above, on Ninth Avenue, and Saravana Bhavan, left, on Lexington Avenue, offer something different.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); PORK (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



350 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: From Dining Out To Cold Turkey

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

 BODY:
SANDY Dawes, a new lawyer, used to dine out four times a week with her husband, Chris, a Ph.D. candidate. Now it's once a week, at most, as rising prices, student loan bills and car payments have squeezed their budget.
 ''We needed to cut back, and that was the easiest thing to cut,'' said Ms. Dawes, who lives in Cardiff by the Sea, Calif. ''It takes a little more motivation to cook at home -- more planning, keeping the refrigerator full to be ready to cook dinner -- but it doesn't take more time than going out to dinner.'' 
 Americans have been spending more time in their kitchens since the economy soured and food prices began to rise this year. About 60 percent surveyed in July by Mintel International, a market research firm, said they were cooking more often and dining out less frequently. Marcia Mogelonsky, a senior researcher at Mintel, said that as the economy has worsened, that figure has probably increased.
 ''In the old economy, people didn't think twice about spending a little more for convenience,'' Ms. Mogelonsky said. 
 But don't think that millions of men and women are tying on aprons and emulating homemakers of old. People interviewed around the country over the last few weeks followed an expansive definition of cooking -- pan-frying frozen hamburger patties and popping frozen corn in the microwave. 
 They are following some traditional techniques of penny-pinching, though, like clipping coupons, choosing sale items, buying less meat or cheaper cuts, using leftovers, choosing store brands instead of national brands, entertaining less or doing potluck. Canning is also becoming popular. Sales of canning jars are up, as are registrations in cooking classes.
 Ms. Mogelonsky said Mintel surveys have found people doing more store to store comparison shopping. And she noted that 17 percent more people were using food stamps this September than in September 2007.
 Like others, the Daweses buy in bulk, making a run to Costco once a week. They buy frozen fish because it is cheaper than fresh. The only beef they get is ground, and it goes into chili and meatballs. And they get only what they need. 
 ''Before I would buy something that would look good, but I didn't have a plan and would end up throwing it away,'' Ms. Dawes said. ''I pretty much buy the same things all the time. We do a lot of chicken stir-fry, typically using curry sauce or teriyaki sauce from a jar, or do one of my husband's family dishes, chicken sauteed in Italian dressing. I make stews and stuff on weekends and use it during the week. It's probably pretty boring, but my husband doesn't complain.''
 Staying home may keep them healthier, though. ''We are eating better because I tend not to cook with cheese or cream or cream sauces,'' she said. ''I'm making more salads.'' 
 Tracey Gist, an accountant in Sewickley, Pa., near Pittsburgh, used to eat out five nights a week with her daughters, 9 and 11. She started eating in when gas prices went sky high -- she drives 40 miles each way to work -- and has kept it up. ''It starts with the gas prices, and then the price of food and then the heating bill,'' she said ''and the fact everyone is on the verge of unemployment makes you not want to spend because of the uncertainty of the economy.''
 Her children haven't been happy about it. '' 'We want to eat out,' '' she said, mimicking them. '' 'We don't like your cooking.' It doesn't matter what it is if it doesn't come on a menu.''
 So their meals have been reduced to kid-friendly sloppy joes, hot dogs, grilled cheese sandwiches, pot pies, mac and cheese and frozen dinners, even though Ms. Gist worked in her father's catering business as a young girl. 
 ''I'm a good cook,'' she said, ''but I want to cook when I want to cook, not because I have to cook. I don't like to be driven by the fact I can't afford to take the kids to a restaurant.''
 Slowly she has gotten back into gear, pulling out appliances that had been gathering dust. Several times she has put a chicken or a roast in the Crock-Pot before she has left for work. ''It was convenient, and it was nice to have the meal ready when I got home,'' she said. 
 But not necessarily what the children wanted. When she served the roast, they got a can of ravioli and heated it up. They didn't like the chicken either.
 Two weeks ago, with gas prices down, the family went out to a restaurant twice; this week once, and the girls, Ms. Gist said, are happier. 
 Some people, like Betsy Colby, a real estate agent in New York's cooling market, are back to cooking from scratch. Ms. Colby is doing it in a space she describes as a ''one tush kitchen,'' a size known well to most Manhattanites. 
 She avoids prepared foods. She shops at the cheapest supermarkets, looks for sale items; she buys whole vegetables rather than packages of ready-cut ones that are a few pennies more. She roasts a whole chicken because it costs much less than chicken parts. ''Organics are out of the question,'' she said, ''except for milk.''
 Between those economies and going out to dinner only once a week -- and then to less expensive restaurants -- she has cut her weekly food bill to $250 from $500. No mean feat with a husband and two children, ''a 10-year-old the size of a 15-year-old'' with an appetite to match and a 5-year-old picky eater. She entertains less, and she and her friends are talking about potluck suppers to share costs.
 Even some of those who aren't actually feeling the pinch have made adjustments, like Jeff Canter, a management consultant in Fair Oaks, another Pittsburgh suburb. ''We aren't destitute,'' Mr. Canter said, ''but it comes down to a sense that the days of wine and roses that never seemed to end, that there never seemed to be a limit to what you could spend, those days are over.''
 Mr. Canter and his wife used to eat out three or four times a week, at $100 to $125 a pop. Now it's once a week.
 He's consulting cookbooks that he hasn't looked at in years. ''I've done most of the cooking for 30 years, and I always had the triangle on the plate -- meat, vegetable, starch -- but now I'm changing to quick things like chicken on the grill instead of the traditional roasts and all the side dishes. 
 ''We're basically doing things our parents did in the 1970s recession. I remember when I was just a kid, we ate a lot of chicken and spaghetti.''
 Unlike Ms. Colby, not everyone knows how to roast a chicken, or cook anything from scratch. ''There are whole generations of Gen X and Gen Y who are kings and queens of the microwave,'' Ms. Mogelonsky said, ''You can't save a lot if you buy ready-made food, but you can save some.''
 At some cooking schools there has been an increase in registration for classes for nonprofessionals. For example, the Institute of Culinary Education in New York saw a 32 percent increase in September, followed by a 17 percent increase in October. 
 Some agricultural extension agents are getting more questions about recipes, though one of them Deborah Rhoades, from Frederick, Md., said she is getting more questions about food preservation. An increase in canning, found more in rural areas and small towns than in big cities, has caused a run on canning jars, lids and rings.
 In October, sales of Ball canning and storage products were up 92 percent over the same month last year. 
 Sheri Ann Richerson, a freelance writer in Marion, Ind., seems to have canned everything in her half-acre garden that didn't move. She also froze 10 chickens.
 ''Since June we have been able to get by on $20 to $30 a week for food,'' she said. Ms. Richerson is not a farm girl to whom all of this came naturally. She learned to can from the Ball book of directions. ''Some days we started canning at 9 a.m. and didn't finish until 6 a.m.,'' she said. 
 Her goal was to can 1,500 jars of food, but the shortage of rings and lids at local stores stymied her, and she and her husband did only 700. All in her tiny 1930s kitchen, so small, the refrigerator is in the dining room.
 ''We are doing all this to save money,'' she said. ''I think there is going to be a bigger and bigger problem with shortages of food and of money, which will eventually come down to us. When I read about all of these businesses closing, the question is how long people will have money to buy video games, which is what my husband sells.''
 ''What is happening may be a blip,'' Ms. Mogelonsky said. People may be going way overboard in some behavior now, until they figure it out. It's very hard to say if any of the statistics or behaviors will be like this in two years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MORE LIDS, PLEASE: Sheri Ann Richerson filled 700 jars with food from her garden in Marion, Ind.(PHOTOGRAPH BY D. KEVIN ELLIOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FROZEN FOODS (89%); DINING OUT TRENDS (78%); BEEF (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PREPARED FOODS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); SEAFOOD (63%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); RETAIL COUPONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



351 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Sony to Cut 8,000 Workers and Shut Plants

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER; Martin Fackler and Kamiizumi Yasuko contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Sony Corporation, the Japanese consumer electronics giant, said on Tuesday that it would eliminate 8,000 jobs and rein in planned investment in reaction to the global economic slowdown. 
 Sony, which had already announced scattered cost-savings measures, blamed rapid deterioration in the global economic outlook and the strength of the Japanese currency for the cuts.
 The measures, combined with a bleak outlook from a Sony rival, Samsung, and news that Japan's economy had contracted more than initially thought during the third quarter, highlighted how much Asian economies were suffering because of the financial crisis -- now increasingly also an economic crisis -- that began in the United States last year. 
 ''The number of job cuts in Japan will increase day by day,'' said Tomoko Fujii, head of economics and strategy in Tokyo with Bank of America.
 ''These initiatives are in response to the sudden and rapid changes in the global economic environment,'' said Sony, which has 160,000 employees. Sony intends to save more than 100 billion yen ($1.1 billion), a year through the measures, which include closing several plants. 
 About 10 percent of the company's 57 plants, including two overseas sites, will be shut, and expansion of a site in Slovakia where LCD televisions for the European market are assembled has been delayed. 
 Sony will also trim spending in semiconductors and will outsource a part of the production it had planned for image sensors for cellphones.
 ''Based on such measures, Sony is planning to reduce investment in the electronics business by approximately 30 percent'' in the fiscal year ending March 2010, the company said. 
 Still, many analysts were unconvinced that the cost-cutting program would be enough to shield Sony from the effects of the global slowdown.
 Kazuharu Miura, an analyst who covers the electronics industry at Daiwa Institute of Research, said, ''Considering the slowdown of the consumption in 2009, I doubt if this measure can offset the downturn of the sales.''
 The Japanese domestic market also is faring badly, with Japan last quarter slipping into recession. Reports released on Tuesday indicated that Japan's economy had sunk deeper into recession in the third quarter than initially estimated. Japan's export-driven economy contracted 0.5 percent in the July to September quarter, far more than the preliminary figure of a 0.1 percent decrease, revised gross domestic product figures indicated. 
 But Sony has many problems of its own. Once known for innovation, it has been supplanted since the days of the Walkman and PlayStation by competitors like Apple and Nintendo. At the same time, Sony has also lost market share to less expensive rivals from China and South Korea that have challenged it on lower-cost items like televisions. 
 The announcement of the layoffs was made after the Tokyo market closed; Sony shares closed up 3.9 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECESSION (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); JAPANESE YEN (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); MARKET SHARE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DAIWA INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH LTD (53%); NINTENDO CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (94%); SNE (NYSE) (94%); 6758 (TSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 7974 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



352 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: For Biotech, A Tax Break Spells Hope

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Move over Big Three. Little Biotech is joining you in seeking federal assistance. 
 Biotechnology industry executives plan to visit Congress on Wednesday to ask for a temporary change in the tax law that would let money-losing companies get cash from the government now, in exchange for tax credits they would pledge not to take if they eventually become profitable. 
 The change, if Washington approved of it, could enable the industry to receive potentially hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars, on the condition that the money would be used for research and development. 
 The effort comes as many smaller biotechnology companies, particularly those trying to develop drugs, are facing a severe cash shortage that is forcing them to dismiss workers, curtail research and even file for bankruptcy protection or liquidation. 
 Prospects for the proposal are unclear. 
 But Allyson Y. Schwartz, a Democratic member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which handles tax matters, said she would push to include the proposal in the forthcoming economic stimulus package and expected many of her colleagues to view it favorably. 
 ''Innovation and technology are growth areas for American businesses and American workers and should be part of this package,'' said Ms. Schwartz, whose district in the Philadelphia area is home to some pharmaceutical and biotechnology offices. 
 A spokeswoman for President-elect Barack Obama said his transition team was not commenting on individual provisions of the stimulus package beyond what has been revealed publicly. 
 The big profitable biotech companies like Amgen and Genentech remain financially sound. But of the 370 publicly traded American biotechnology companies, the number with less than six months cash on hand is approximately 125 -- nearly double the total last year, according to the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group. Developing a drug can require hundreds of millions of dollars and 10 years or more, so even in good economic times some small companies struggle to raise money. 
 But with financial markets in turmoil, investors have become reluctant or unable to provide the infusions of cash, pushing many biotech companies to the brink. 
 In seeking assistance, the industry is quick to distinguish itself from the automakers, banks and other supplicants in Washington, portraying itself as a model of innovation and American competitiveness. 
 ''This is not a question of our companies operating with what some perceive as a flawed business model,'' said Alan F. Eisenberg, an executive vice president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, which is known as BIO. ''This is about our companies taking a decade to get a product on the market, and during that time they need to have investor capital, and that capital is not available.'' 
 The industry's idea is to let companies turn their very weakness -- their huge losses -- into an asset. Under current law, net operating losses can eventually be used to offset some taxes once a company is profitable. But that does little good for companies struggling with losses and a lack of cash now. 
 So the industry's proposal would let companies receive payments from the government now in exchange for giving up those tax deductions later. The industry would agree to a cap, perhaps $30 million, on the amount any single company could receive. 
 Mr. Eisenberg of BIO said the proposed change would be in effect only for a year and would apply to companies outside of biotechnology as well. Few other industries, though, require as much time and money to develop a product as the biotechnology industry.
 Biotechnology might not seem an obvious candidate for a bailout. The industry employs only about 200,000 people in the United States, according to the accounting firm Ernst & Young; the automobile industry employs millions. 
 ''Research-based companies that employ 30 people don't necessarily stimulate the economy,'' said a Washington lobbyist for a large pharmaceutical company, who was skeptical the proposal would win backing. 
 This person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to the media, said the proposal's opponents could argue that assistance was not needed because a company with a truly promising product would be able to sell the rights to that product, or the entire company, to a larger drug company. 
 The biotechnology industry is also notoriously risky, with many companies never achieving profitability despite spending hundreds of millions of dollars. The chief executive of Genentech has estimated the industry as a whole has lost about $100 billion since the field's inception in 1970s. Even as of last year, the American biotechnology industry as a whole was not profitable, although it was getting close, according to Ernst & Young. 
 The biotechnology industry will argue that it is responsible for creating a large number of drugs now being tested that will be needed by an aging population in the future. And it will argue that it is a bastion of American competitiveness. 
 ''It's one of the few places where the U.S. is the undisputed leader of the world,'' said Alexis Borisy, the chief executive of CombinatoRx, a biotech company in Cambridge, Mass., that recently cut 80 employees, or two-thirds of its work force, to conserve its cash after two drugs did not perform well in clinical trials. ''Do we allow that to be cannibalized?'' 
 The industry has paved the way in developing ways to treat rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis as well as cancer drugs like Genentech's Avastin, ImClone's Erbitux and Celgene's Revlimid. OSI Pharmaceuticals, which developed the lung cancer drug Tarceva, lost a cumulative $1.3 billion from its inception in 1983 through 2006 before finally breaking into the black. 
 Since many companies will never reach profitability, the industry acknowledges that an upfront cash payment would have to be significantly less than the value of the deductions. 
 For instance, Mr. Eisenberg said, a company with $100 million in net operating losses would be entitled to about $35 million in lower federal taxes when it eventually became profitable. So perhaps the company could be paid about $20 million now, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%)

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (90%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%)

PERSON: ALLYSON Y SCHWARTZ (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



353 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Education; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Higher Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Higher Education May Soon Be Unaffordable for Most Americans, Report Says'' (news article, Dec. 3): 
 Higher education is expensive, but what many may not realize is that some colleges and universities have committed themselves to affordability and access by channeling additional resources directly to student aid.
 At the University of Pennsylvania, for example, undergraduate students who are eligible for financial aid are offered no-loan packages, regardless of family income. 
 Students from typical families with incomes less than $40,000 pay no tuition, room or board.
 In addition, Penn and the country's other need-blind colleges and universities accept students based solely on academic and other strengths, not on families' ability to pay. And despite the challenges posed by the current economic crisis, we remain steadfast in this commitment to educate the best and brightest young people, regardless of economic background.
 We do this because it would be a tragedy if the current economic troubles resulted in fewer college-educated young people at a time when our country -- indeed, the world -- needs their future leadership. 
 Yes, higher education is expensive, but as Penn's founder Benjamin Franklin once said, an investment in education pays the greatest interest.
 Eric J. Furda Philadelphia, Dec. 3, 2008
 The writer is the dean of admissions at the University of Pennsylvania.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



354 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Pinch, N.F.L. Will Cut About 150 Jobs

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The N.F.L., widely considered the most successful sports league in North America, will reduce its staff by about 150 employees after the Super Bowl in response to the slumping economy, Commissioner Roger Goodell told staff members in a memo Tuesday. 
 The N.F.L. has a total of 1,100 employees at its New York headquarters, at NFL Films in New Jersey and at the Los Angeles offices of the NFL Network and NFL.com. Although voluntary buyouts are being offered now, the league will not determine the breakdown of cuts until after the championship game on Feb. 1. 
 ''These are difficult and painful steps,'' Goodell's memo said. ''But they are necessary in the current economic environment. I would like to be able to report that we are immune to the troubles around us, but we are not. Properly managed, I am confident the N.F.L. will emerge stronger, more efficient and poised to pursue long-term growth opportunities.''
 This is the latest indication that the global recession has reached into even the gilded environs of professional sports. In October, the N.B.A. announced the elimination of about 80 jobs, the Honda Motor Company is withdrawing from Formula One auto racing, Nascar is aggressively cutting costs and Major League Baseball's Internet division has laid off about 20 workers. 
 But with revenue estimated at $6.5 billion for this year, the N.F.L. has until now experienced nearly unfettered financial success. This week, The Sports Business Journal reported that the N.F.L. would fall $50 million short of revenue projections this year. 
 The job cuts are part of a broader effort to reduce the league's costs. Travel and corporate outings have also come under the knife, although those cuts are not expected to be noticed by fans. 
 ''The No. 1 problem is uncertainty of what revenues will be in 2009,'' said Marc Ganis, a sports consultant who has worked with the N.F.L. and its teams. ''We all expect '09 to be a very bad year economically. How bad is what we don't know. You used to be able to counterbalance the uncertainty with the ability to borrow against an asset's value. But the credit markets have shriveled up.''
 Ganis said Goodell began anticipating the severity of the economic downturn early in the summer. 
 The N.F.L. is being squeezed by, among other things, sagging licensed merchandising sales, sponsorship renewals and new-media deals. 
 Operating costs, meanwhile, are rising as part of the collective bargaining agreement struck in March 2006. Players will receive about $4.5 billion in salary and benefits in 2008, according to owners.
 ''There was a time that if the N.F.L. said, 'I would like a window shades company as a sponsor,' they would have a slew of prospects trying to throw money at them to be the official window shades company of the N.F.L.,'' Ganis said. ''Sponsors are being much more discriminating with the use of their dollars now. Advertising money is going to decrease, if for no other reason than the auto industry has shrunk. The N.F.L. relies on auto, finance and real estate -- it is a mess. Yet your costs aren't going down. You signed contracts for their increases.''
 The owners also face a difficult negotiation with the players union for a new collective bargaining agreement. Owners opted out of the current deal in the spring, meaning the 2010 season could be played without a salary cap, and a lockout could occur in 2011 if no new deal is struck. The negotiations could be complicated by the presence of a new union leader -- as yet undetermined -- who will replace the longtime union chief, Gene Upshaw, who died in August. 
 Owners have argued that they are under pressure because of rising costs, including their debt on stadium construction and renovation, while their revenue remains flat or declines. 
 That is one reason owners will consider playing two more regular-season games in future seasons, while reducing the preseason, possibly starting in 2011. Increasing the number of regular-season games could allow the N.F.L. to demand more money from broadcasting contracts. 
 Some franchises have started to trim their staffs, as well. The Denver Broncos made cuts earlier this year, and the New England Patriots recently laid off about 5 percent of the staff from Gillette Stadium -- about two dozen people -- in anticipation of reduced trade-show and special-event business there next year.
 The Patriots also closed their one-person China office, which opened when the team was scheduled to play a game there. With the N.F.L. focusing its overseas plans on regular-season games in Europe, the China game has been canceled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); AUTO RACING (75%); BASEBALL (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); FORMULA ONE RACING (71%); NASCAR RACING (65%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (68%); HMC (NYSE) (68%); 7267 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



355 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; A GOOD APPETITE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2467 words

HEADLINE: Luxury on Sale: The Lobster Glut

BYLINE: By MELISSA CLARK

 BODY:
I'M a sucker for a sale, the kind of shopper who tallies the amount ''saved'' rather than spent. My arithmetic goes like this: It makes more sense to buy the $125 cashmere sweater marked down to $95 than to pay full price for the $80 one.
 Following this logic, when I heard on the radio that lobster prices were the cheapest they had been in 25 years, I decided that the sensible thing to do was to run over to the fish store and buy a couple for dinner. 
 So what if I spent nearly $30 on lobster for two on a weeknight when we weren't celebrating anything? It cost a third less than it would have last year. 
 While fantasizing about ways to cook my bargain crustaceans, I asked Lewis Spada, the manager of Fish Tales in Brooklyn, why prices were so low.
 ''The economy,'' he said. ''People just aren't buying, but in Maine their stocks are loaded. It's all about supply and demand.''
 At his shop, lobsters go for $10.99 a pound, about $3 less than last year -- a trend seen all over town. Balducci's is selling them for $14.99 to $16.99 a pound, $4 less than last year, and at Wild Edibles they are $2 to $3 less, or $13.99 to $15.99 a pound. The Lobster Place, with locations in Chelsea Market and Greenwich Village, is the cheapest of the markets I surveyed, at $7.95 a pound. 
 Act quickly, because, according to Trevor Corson, the author of ''The Secret Life of Lobsters'' (HarperCollins, 2004), this situation is probably not going to last much longer. 
 ''The lobster fishermen are victims of their own success,'' he said, explaining that because they have managed to make lobster fisheries so sustainable, they have recently had record catches. 
 Until now, the excess catch was funneled to Canadian processing plants, which sold them frozen to chain restaurants. But the bad economy hit the Canadian plants hard enough to shut down operations. 
 That means cheaper lobsters for you and me -- at least temporarily.
 ''It's gotten to the point where for the fishermen, it's not worth their while to catch lobsters, so the supply will decrease,'' Mr. Corson said.
 My timing on my little lobster splurge was even better than I'd realized.
 Generally, when serving lobster, I stick to the tried and true: steaming them, then serving with melted butter. I've been afraid to experiment; who wants to gamble with ruining such a pricey purchase? 
 With fire-sale-priced lobsters, I had no such inhibitions. Visions of more opulent lobster dishes swam across my mind. I saw rich bits of pink lobster meat coated in creamy sauce over soft egg pasta. I remembered how marvelous broiled lobster, mottled with charred bits, tasted when dipped in garlicky olive oil. And finally, I thought back to a saute of lobster with lobster mushrooms I had at a friend's house, the dense, meaty texture of the mushrooms echoing that of the shellfish. 
 But before I could cook my lobsters, I needed to end their watery lives as quickly and humanely as possible. In the past, I would always drop them into a pot of boiling water and clamp the lid on tight. 
 Trevor Corson had another suggestion.
 ''The best way to kill them, according to animal welfare agencies, is to put them in the freezer first for 15 minutes,'' he said. ''It slows their metabolism.'' 
 After that, Mr. Corson suggested, put the lobster on its back and slice lengthwise through its soft underbelly. 
 ''Lobsters have a decentralized nervous system,'' he said. ''The tail may still twitch, but the claws will go limp so you'll know it's dead.'' Killing a lobster this way before boiling. steaming or broiling it, he added, makes for less rubbery meat.
 So I tried it. After freezing and slicing up my lobsters, I ran them under the broiler. My plan was to serve them with garlic oil. But their scarlet hue reminded me of blackened redfish. Making a vibrant, spicy Cajun butter to souse the lobster seemed like a good idea.
 As Mr. Corson promised, the lobster meat cooked up tender yet firm, and the spicy butter gave it a fiery kick without diminishing its sweetness.
 The mushroom saute was my next foray. My local market didn't have lobster mushrooms, but it did have oyster mushrooms, which were at least thematically the same, and maitakes.
 Seasoned with sesame oil, ginger root and soy sauce, this lobster variation was bright and boldly flavored, with the mushrooms adding a woodsy earthiness to what's now my favorite version of surf and turf.
 Last, I indulged in a luscious lobster pasta topped with a savory sherry sabayon. It was slightly more labor-intensive than the usual cream sauce, but more ethereal, too.
 As an extravagant, final touch, I crowned the pasta with glowing beads of salmon caviar. True, this wasn't on sale. But I couldn't resist celebrating how much money I saved on the lobster.
 Recipe: Boiled Lobster Time: 15 minutes
 Salt
 2 live lobsters, 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 pounds each.
 1. Fill a large lobster pot or stockpot halfway with water; season generously with salt. Bring water to a boil. Drop lobsters into pot headfirst and boil, covered, 10 to 12 minutes, until bright red all over. Remove with tongs to a cutting board or sink to drain. 
 2. Once they are cool enough to handle, remove lobster meat from tails, claws and knuckles. If lobsters are female, remove and reserve any red coral (the strip of roe that runs along the body just behind the head) and serve as garnish on any lobster dish. 
 Yield: 1 1/2 to 2 cups lobster meat.
 Alternative method for killing lobster: Place live lobster in a bag in freezer for 15 minutes to slow its metabolism. Then put lobster on its back. Use a sharp knife and quick movement to cut the body in half lengthwise from the base of the tail through the head (leave tail intact). The back shell need not be cut through. Boil as directed above. 
 Recipe: Broiled Lobster With Cajun Butter Time: 25 minutes
 1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
 1 tablespoon kosher salt
 1 1/2 teaspoons cayenne pepper
 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika
 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
 3/4 teaspoon onion powder
 3/4 teaspoon dried thyme
 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
 1/8 teaspoon mustard powder
 4 live lobsters, about 1 1/2 pounds each.
 1. Preheat broiler. Arrange an oven rack 4 inches from heat source. To make Cajun butter, stir together all ingredients except lobsters in a small bowl.
 2. Place lobsters in bag in freezer for 15 minutes to slow their metabolism. Place a lobster on its back. Using a sharp knife and quick movement, slice lobster in half lengthwise from head to tip of tail. Grab both sides of shell and split open body, cracking through its hard back. Scoop out its gray-green innards. Use back of a heavy knife to crack open both claws. Repeat with remaining lobsters. (You can have a fishmonger do this for you as long lobster meat is cooked within an hour.)
 3. Arrange lobsters in a single layer in a large roasting pan (or use 4 large gratin dishes). Coat body and claw meat generously with Cajun butter. Broil, basting once halfway through with pan juices, until lobster meat is cooked through and slightly charred, about 12 minutes. Remove lobsters from oven. Spoon pan juices over lobsters and serve. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Lobster With Herbed Egg Noodles, Sherry and Salmon Caviar Time: 40 minutes
 FOR THE SHERRY SAUCE: 
 4 egg yolks
 1/3 cup dry (fino) sherry
 1 teaspoon chopped garlic
 1/2 teaspoon salt 
 Freshly ground black pepper, to taste
 FOR THE LOBSTER:
 6 tablespoons unsalted butter
 2 tablespoons dry (fino) sherry 
 3 1 1/4- to 1 1/2-pound boiled or steamed lobsters, meat removed and cut into bite-size pieces
 1/2 pound fresh egg pasta, cooked and drained (or cooked spaetzle)
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme leaves
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh tarragon
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
 1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives
 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
 Freshly ground black pepper
 Salmon caviar, for garnish (optional).
 1. To make sauce, in a heatproof bowl, beat together yolks, 1/3 cup sherry, garlic, salt and pepper. Place bowl over a pot of simmering water. Do not allow water to come to a boil or eggs may curdle. Whisk constantly until light, frothy and thickened, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
 2. Melt butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Cook until butter turns nut brown (do not let it burn), about 4 minutes. Immediately add 2 tablespoons sherry and stir. Add remaining ingredients, except caviar. Toss well and cook until heated through, about 2 minutes. Gently toss in sherry sauce. 
 3. Divide among plates and serve, topped with salmon caviar, if desired.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Recipe: Sauteed Lobster With Oyster Mushrooms and Ginger Time: 20 minutes
 3 tablespoons peanut or safflower oil
 2 inches ginger, peeled and finely chopped
 1 fat garlic clove, finely chopped
 6 ounces oyster mushrooms, sliced
 2 ounces maitake or shiitake mushrooms, sliced 
 1/3 cup sliced scallions, white and light green parts only
 2 1 1/4- to 1 1/2-pound boiled or steamed lobsters, meat removed and cut into bite-size pieces
 1/3 cup chicken stock
 1 tablespoon soy sauce, more to taste
 2 teaspoons rice wine vinegar, more to taste
 1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil
 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
 Cooked rice, for serving (optional).
 1. Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add ginger and garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in mushrooms and scallions and cook, tossing occasionally, until soft and golden, about 4 minutes. 
 2. Stir in lobster, stock, soy sauce, vinegar and sesame oil. Cook until most of liquid has evaporated, 2 to 3 minutes. Taste and adjust seasonings. Stir in cilantro and serve immediately, over rice if you like. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Boiled Lobster Time: 15 minutes
 Salt
 2 live lobsters, 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 pounds each.
 1. Fill a large lobster pot or stockpot halfway with water; season generously with salt. Bring water to a boil. Drop lobsters into pot headfirst and boil, covered, 10 to 12 minutes, until bright red all over. Remove with tongs to a cutting board or sink to drain. 
 2. Once they are cool enough to handle, remove lobster meat from tails, claws and knuckles. If lobsters are female, remove and reserve any red coral (the strip of roe that runs along the body just behind the head) and serve as garnish on any lobster dish. 
 Yield: 1 1/2 to 2 cups lobster meat.
 Alternative method for killing lobster: Place live lobster in a bag in freezer for 15 minutes to slow its metabolism. Then put lobster on its back. Use a sharp knife and quick movement to cut the body in half lengthwise from the base of the tail through the head (leave tail intact). The back shell need not be cut through. Boil as directed above. 
 Recipe: Broiled Lobster With Cajun Butter Time: 25 minutes
 1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
 1 tablespoon kosher salt
 1 1/2 teaspoons cayenne pepper
 1 1/2 teaspoons paprika
 1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
 3/4 teaspoon onion powder
 3/4 teaspoon dried thyme
 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
 1/2 teaspoon dried oregano
 1/8 teaspoon mustard powder
 4 live lobsters, about 1 1/2 pounds each.
 1. Preheat broiler. Arrange an oven rack 4 inches from heat source. To make Cajun butter, stir together all ingredients except lobsters in a small bowl.
 2. Place lobsters in bag in freezer for 15 minutes to slow their metabolism. Place a lobster on its back. Using a sharp knife and quick movement, slice lobster in half lengthwise from head to tip of tail. Grab both sides of shell and split open body, cracking through its hard back. Scoop out its gray-green innards. Use back of a heavy knife to crack open both claws. Repeat with remaining lobsters. (You can have a fishmonger do this for you as long lobster meat is cooked within an hour.)
 3. Arrange lobsters in a single layer in a large roasting pan (or use 4 large gratin dishes). Coat body and claw meat generously with Cajun butter. Broil, basting once halfway through with pan juices, until lobster meat is cooked through and slightly charred, about 12 minutes. Remove lobsters from oven. Spoon pan juices over lobsters and serve. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Lobster With Herbed Egg Noodles, Sherry and Salmon Caviar Time: 40 minutes
 FOR THE SHERRY SAUCE: 
 4 egg yolks
 1/3 cup dry (fino) sherry
 1 teaspoon chopped garlic
 1/2 teaspoon salt 
 Freshly ground black pepper, to taste
 FOR THE LOBSTER:
 6 tablespoons unsalted butter
 2 tablespoons dry (fino) sherry 
 3 1 1/4- to 1 1/2-pound boiled or steamed lobsters, meat removed and cut into bite-size pieces
 1/2 pound fresh egg pasta, cooked and drained (or cooked spaetzle)
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme leaves
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh tarragon
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley
 1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives
 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
 Freshly ground black pepper
 Salmon caviar, for garnish (optional).
 1. To make sauce, in a heatproof bowl, beat together yolks, 1/3 cup sherry, garlic, salt and pepper. Place bowl over a pot of simmering water. Do not allow water to come to a boil or eggs may curdle. Whisk constantly until light, frothy and thickened, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
 2. Melt butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Cook until butter turns nut brown (do not let it burn), about 4 minutes. Immediately add 2 tablespoons sherry and stir. Add remaining ingredients, except caviar. Toss well and cook until heated through, about 2 minutes. Gently toss in sherry sauce. 
 3. Divide among plates and serve, topped with salmon caviar, if desired.
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Recipe: Sauteed Lobster With Oyster Mushrooms and Ginger Time: 20 minutes
 3 tablespoons peanut or safflower oil
 2 inches ginger, peeled and finely chopped
 1 fat garlic clove, finely chopped
 6 ounces oyster mushrooms, sliced
 2 ounces maitake or shiitake mushrooms, sliced 
 1/3 cup sliced scallions, white and light green parts only
 2 1 1/4- to 1 1/2-pound boiled or steamed lobsters, meat removed and cut into bite-size pieces
 1/3 cup chicken stock
 1 tablespoon soy sauce, more to taste
 2 teaspoons rice wine vinegar, more to taste
 1 1/2 teaspoons sesame oil
 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
 Cooked rice, for serving (optional).
 1. Heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add ginger and garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in mushrooms and scallions and cook, tossing occasionally, until soft and golden, about 4 minutes. 
 2. Stir in lobster, stock, soy sauce, vinegar and sesame oil. Cook until most of liquid has evaporated, 2 to 3 minutes. Taste and adjust seasonings. Stir in cilantro and serve immediately, over rice if you like. 
 Yield: 4 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SCRIVANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SCRIVANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); CRUSTACEANS (89%); TRENDS (77%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (76%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CLOSINGS (70%); FISHERIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



356 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Writer and Academic Is Poised To Lead Canada's Liberal Party

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Michael Ignatieff, a former journalist, documentary producer and academic, became the effective leader of the Liberal Party of Canada on Tuesday.
 At a news conference, Mr. Ignatieff's only remaining rival for the position, Bob Rae, the former Ontario premier, abandoned the party's leadership race and backed the candidacy of Mr. Ignatieff, who was once his college roommate. 
 Mr. Ignatieff must go through several formal approvals, the first of which will be in his party caucus on Wednesday. But when those rituals are complete, Mr. Ignatieff will formally head a coalition of opposition parties that was on the verge of taking power from Canada's Conservative government last week.
 Canada now has a potential prime minister who has lived outside the country for most of the past 39 years, whose extensive resume is short on political experience and whose past views on major issues were sometimes at odds with the broad Canadian consensus.
 While the director of a human rights center at Harvard University, Mr. Ignatieff, 61, supported the invasion of Iraq, a position in opposition to the Liberal Party's stance, though he subsequently retracted his support. Though Mr. Ignatieff has also lived in Britain, he has strongly identified himself with the United States and its values in a way that is unusual for a Canadian politician.
 In 2002, Mr. Ignatieff wrote in Granta, a British magazine, that protesting the war in Vietnam was the great cause of his youth. ''I loved my own country, but I believed in America in a way that Canada never allowed,'' Mr. Ignatieff wrote. ''I was against the war because I thought it betrayed something essential about the country. I marched because I believed in Jefferson and Lincoln.''
 In the predawn hours on Tuesday, the executive of the Liberal Party announced a plan to choose a new leader quickly before a convention scheduled for May. 
 The previous leader, Stephane Dion, agreed to step aside Monday after several missteps last week during a confrontation with Prime Minister Stephen Harper over the Conservative government's economic program. In the end, Mr. Harper prevented the opposition coalition from taking power by suspending the legislature.
 While Mr. Rae is an experienced and personable politician, many Canadians believe he badly mishandled the economy during a recession in the early 1990s, when he was premier of Ontario. 
 Mr. Ignatieff's only comment on Tuesday was on his blog on his Web site, michaelignatieff.ca. He wrote that Mr. Rae's decision ''reflects his commitment to the unity of our party and our purpose in these challenging times.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (69%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (58%); STEPHANE DION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (88%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



357 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Eager Investors Buying U.S. Debt With Zero Yield

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
When was the last time you invested in something that you knew wouldn't make money? 
 In the market equivalent of shoveling cash under the mattress, hordes of buyers were so eager on Tuesday to park money in the world's safest investment, United States government debt, that they agreed to accept a zero percent rate of return. 
 The news sent a sobering signal: in these troubled economic times, when people have lost vast amounts on stocks, bonds and real estate, making an investment that offers security but no gain is tantamount to coming out ahead. This extremely cautious approach reflects concerns that a global recession could deepen next year, and continue to jeopardize all types of investments. 
 While this will lower the cost of borrowing for the United States government, economists worry that a widespread hunkering-down could have broader implications that could slow an economic recovery. If investors remain reluctant to put money into stocks and corporate bonds, that could choke off funds that businesses need to keep financing their day-to-day operations. 
 Investors accepted the zero percent rate in the government's auction Tuesday of $30 billion worth of short-term securities that mature in four weeks. Demand was so great even for no return that the government could have sold four times as much.
 In addition, for a brief moment, investors were willing to take a small loss for holding another ultra-safe security, the already-issued three-month Treasury bill. 
 In these times, it seems, the abnormal has now become acceptable. As America's debt and deficit spiral from a parade of billion dollar bailouts and stimulus packages, fund managers, foreign governments and big retail investors reckon they will get more peace of mind by stashing their cash, rather than putting it toward any of the higher-yielding risk that is entailed in stocks, corporate bonds and consumer debt. 
 The rapid decline in Treasury yields -- which since summer have headed toward lows not seen since the end of the World War II -- also renders the Federal Reserve less effective, as investors and banks stuff the money that the central bank is pumping into the financial system into Treasuries, rather than fanning it out across the broader economy. 
 ''The last time this happened was the Great Depression, when people are willing to accept no return on their money, or possibly even a negative return,'' said Edward Yardeni, an independent analyst. ''If people are so busy during the day just protecting the cash they have, it's not a good sign.''
 Stocks fell sharply as investors digested the implications. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 242.85 points, or 2.72 percent, to 8,691.33, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 2.31 percent, to 888.67. The Nasdaq composite index lost 1.55 percent, to 1,547.34.
 If there is a silver lining to the Treasury market's gyrations, it is that the United States can borrow money more cheaply from investors, whether they be the governments of China or Japan, or big fund managers. That could help Washington finance various programs intended to revive the ailing economy. 
 Borrowing by the Treasury has already ballooned since Congress approved the $700 billion financial rescue plan, and policy makers expect the federal budget deficit to swell further next year as the Big Three automakers and other industries look for support.
 ''That sucking sound is all the world's capital going into the U.S. Treasury market,'' Mr. Yardeni said, ''which means the Treasury and the Fed can tap into that liquidity pool to finance TARP and offer mortgages at 4.5 percent.''
 While that may offset some of the expense of the bailouts, economists say the fact that the United States must borrow so much to prop up large parts of the economy is a big cause for concern. 
 There are several explanations for the flight to safety in the bond market. The world of short-term money market funds, for instance, is still reeling from troubles at the Reserve Primary Fund, a money market fund frozen in September after it lost money on investments in Lehman Brothers. Since then, individual and large investors have put more than $200 billion into money funds that only invest in safe Treasury bills, according to iMoneyNet, a financial data publisher. At the same time, investors have withdrawn nearly $400 billion from prime funds.
 That has forced portfolio managers to buy Treasury bills, driving down yields. ''That group of investors has to invest in something,'' said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors. ''They don't have the luxury of saying, 'I will stick it in the mattress.' ''
 Yields for longer term Treasury securities have also slumped, with the 10-year now yielding 2.64 percent, down from 2.7 percent Monday and 3.75 percent a month earlier. That decline appears to reflect several other forces. Many investors are seeking safety because they believe that the economy is in its worst recession since the Depression. Rather than inflation, which was a worry for some a few months ago, many are now worried about deflation, or falling prices.
 Thomas H. Atteberry, a bond fund manager, said at current prices the market is predicting that the United States will suffer the kind of ''lost decade'' that Japan suffered in the 1990s.
 ''I have a hard time justifying that,'' said Mr. Atteberry, a partner at First Pacific Advisors. ''The Fed seems much more upfront about boosting its balance sheet by creating money.''
 Another reason, analysts say, that Treasury yields may be falling is that foreign investors are using American government securities to protect themselves against the falling value of their own currencies. Many investors are also pulling money out of mutual funds and hedge funds, forcing portfolio managers to sell more risky assets and hold Treasuries, which are easier to sell. 
 And some fund managers are simply looking to dress up their portfolios before the year ends.
 ''There is no doubt that there is potentially some hoarding of cash in anticipation of potential redemptions,'' said David Kovacs, a strategist at Turner Investment Partners. ''People want to own it to show that they played it safe by year-end.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Flight to Safety: Since September, investors have pumped money into government money market funds and withdrawn investments from prime money market funds, which can hold riskier securities. With the increased demand for government securities, yields have fallen.(Source: iMoneyNet) Chart details line graphs for yields and average money fund yields. (pg. A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



358 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Diabetes Epidemic Signals an Increase in Blindness, Too

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
The number of Americans who could lose their vision to diabetes-related eye diseases is going to skyrocket over the next four decades, with elderly Hispanics and blacks hit hardest because of higher rates of Type 2 diabetes, according to a new study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 The report projects that the number of adults 40 and older with diabetic retinopathy -- the leading cause of blindness among working-age adults -- will reach 16 million in 2050, up from 5.5 million in 2005. 
 An advanced form of the disease will affect 3.4 million people in 2050, almost triple the 1.2 million affected in 2005. The report was published on Tuesday in The Archives of Opthalmology.
 ''These are alarming numbers,'' said Dr. Jinan B. Saaddine, an epidemiologist at the disease centers and an author of the study. ''This calls for more awareness and more action, not just to do something about the condition before it develops but to do more to prevent diabetes to start with.''
 ''All of this could be prevented by preventing diabetes in the first place,'' she added. ''That's the big picture.''
 Diabetics are more susceptible to developing cataracts and glaucoma as well, and the study estimates that the number of diabetics with glaucoma will quadruple to 1.4 million, while the number with cataracts will more than triple to 10 million. 
 Older Hispanics and black Americans will be disproportionately affected, according to the report. Glaucoma cases will increase almost 12-fold among Hispanic diabetics 65 and older, and the number of cataract cases will increase more than 7-fold among black diabetics 75 and older.
 People with diabetic retinopathy usually do not have symptoms until they actually start to lose vision. As a result, many skip the recommended annual eye exams. 
 And though treatments are available, they are most effective early in the course of the illness, said Dr. Lloyd Aiello, director of the Beetham Eye Institute at the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston.
 Dr. Aiello said the figures were sobering but not surprising.
 ''We're in the middle of a worldwide diabetes epidemic that is just taking off,'' he said. ''The economic impact is huge, even if you just look at the cost to the federal government of disability and reduced productivity.'' 
 ''Many of these,'' he added, ''are working people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (97%); BLINDNESS (91%); EPIDEMICS (90%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GLAUCOMA (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (90%); CATARACTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (89%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); AGING (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (73%); EYE TESTING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); WRITERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); SHANDONG, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



359 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Preparing for a Bioterror Attack, Assisted Suicide on TV and Bird Flu in Hong Kong

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
States Cut Funding to Combat Disease Outbreaks
 The economy is jeopardizing the nation's ability to handle public health emergencies and bioterror attacks, as both the federal government and states cut funding for programs to combat disease outbreaks and natural disasters, USA Today reports. 
 Report: Georgia Not Ready to Distribute Emergency Supplies
 Meanwhile Georgia, home to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, barely got a passing grade in a new report assessing its readiness to distribute stockpiled medicine and vaccines should a terror attack occur or pandemic break out, The Atlanta Journal Constitution reports. The stockpile is controlled by the C.D.C. and Georgia is one of 10 states that turned around a failing grade in the assessment last year.
 Freelancers Union Enters Health Insurance Business
 The Freelancers Union, which has been purchasing group health coverage for self-employed workers, mostly in New York, is going into the health insurance business itself, the Wall Street Journal health blog reports; It has a $17 million reserve from several large philanthropic organizations and will craft plans around members' needs. The plans will initially only be available in New York.
 Assisted Suicide Shown on Film
 A British TV station has sparked controversy with its decision to air a film on Wednesday that shows a terminally ill man ending his own life several years ago at a Swiss clinic. The 59-year-old American, Craig Ewert, suffered from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's Disease, AFP reports. 
 Hong Kong Reports New Bird Flu Outbreak
 Hong Kong is reporting another outbreak of avian influenza, or bird flu, among chickens at one of the city's largest poultry farms. Officials are concerned because the chickens were vaccinated against the virus. The city is culling birds and shutting down the local poultry industry for 21 days, Time Magazine reports.
 Tuesday's headlines. 
 Monday's headlines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); DEATH & DYING (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); POULTRY (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); VACCINES (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%); SUICIDE (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (64%); PHILANTHROPY (52%)

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (71%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



360 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Officer Faults Mortgage Giants for 'Orgy' of Nonprime Loans

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac engaged in ''an orgy of junk mortgage development'' that turned the two mortgage-finance giants into vast repositories of subprime and similarly risky loans, a former Fannie executive testified on Tuesday.
 The mortgage development, which began in 2005 and lasted until at least last year, happened as senior executives at the two government-sponsored enterprises ignored repeated warnings from internal risk officers that they were delving too deeply into dangerous territory, according to internal documents released at a Congressional hearing in Washington. The two companies have been taken over by the government. 
 The former executive, Edward J. Pinto, who was chief credit officer at Fannie Mae, told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee that the mortgage giants now guarantee or hold 10.5 million nonprime loans worth $1.6 trillion -- one in three of all subprime loans, and nearly two in three of all so-called Alt-A loans, often called ''liar loans.'' 
 Such loans now make up 34 percent of the total single-family mortgage portfolios at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a level that will link them to eight million foreclosures, or one in six, in coming years, Mr. Pinto said. The nonprime loans ''have turned the American dream of homeownership into the American nightmare of foreclosure,'' he said.
 The hearing was the latest by Congress on the collapse of the two companies, which guarantee half of all mortgages nationwide and are the engine of the housing market. The former chief executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Daniel H. Mudd and Richard F. Syron, and their predecessors, Franklin D. Raines and Leland C. Brendsel, faced pointed questioning from lawmakers.
 Referring to what he called ''the total denial that's going on here today and the refusal to answer simple questions,'' Representative Stephen F. Lynch, Democrat of Massachusetts, told the executives that ''if you have accomplished anything here today, you have made conservatorship look very, very good.''
 But the testimony of Mr. Pinto, who was Fannie Mae's chief credit officer in the late 1980s and who has studied the company's financial statements, and other private analysts shed new light on the role of the housing giants in the subprime crisis. 
 That role has not been fully recognized, in part because many subprime and Alt-A loans show up in databases as prime loans.
 Arnold Kling, an economist who once worked at Freddie Mac, testified that a high-risk loan could be ''laundered,'' as he put it, by Wall Street and return to the banking system as a triple-A-rated security for sale to investors, obscuring its true risks.
 Charles W. Calomiris, a finance professor at Columbia, testified that nobody saw the crisis coming because the two mortgage giants ''adopted accounting practices that masked their subprime and Alt-A lending,'' but he did not elaborate. 
 The former executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were questioned relentlessly on why they did not see the collapse in housing prices coming and why they ignored warnings from their risk officers about stepping up purchases of nonprime loans.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have long insisted that their involvement with subprime and other nonprime loans has been minimal. Asked about the increased purchases, Mr. Mudd insisted that ''Alt-A loans were essentially a subset of overall A loans,'' and not subprime. 
 But internal e-mail the committee obtained told a different story. 
 A June 2005 presentation by Mr. Mudd described the crossroads faced by the company, which at the time was focused on prime loans amid an expanding subprime market. ''We face two stark choices: one, stay the course; two, meet the market where the market is,'' he wrote. Another 2005 Fannie Mae document referred to ''underground efforts to develop a subprime infrastructure and modeling for alternative markets.''
 And in March 2006, Enrico Dallavecchia, Fannie Mae's chief risk officer, wrote to Mr. Mudd to say, ''Dan, I have a serious problem with the control process around subprime limits.''
 Despite the concerns, Fannie Mae further increased its purchases of subprime loans, according to a January 2007 internal presentation. 
 Freddie Mac's senior executives ignored similar warnings. Donald J. Bisenius, a senior vice president, wrote in April 2004 to a colleague that ''we did no-doc lending before, took inordinate losses and generated significant fraud cases.''
 ''I'm not sure what makes us think we're so much smarter this time around,'' he wrote.
 Housing analysts say that the former heads of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac increased their nonprime business because they felt pressure from the government and advocacy groups to meet goals for affordable housing as well as pressure to compete with Wall Street. But Mr. Pinto said one in five Alt-A loans in recent years were made to investors, not to first-time home buyers. 
 Another lever was what Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, said was more than $175 million in lobbying fees the companies spent over 10 years, in part to counter attempts at stronger oversight. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former heads of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac testified in the House Tuesday: left to right, Richard Syron, Daniel Mudd, Leland Brendsel and Franklin Raines.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: RICHARD F SYRON (78%); FRANK RAINES (59%); DANIEL H MUDD (59%); STEPHEN F LYNCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



361 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 433 words

 BODY:
FLIGHT TO SAFETY Investors were so eager to park money in a safe haven that they agreed to accept a zero percent rate of return for United States debt. 
 AUTO BAILOUTIt has been suggested that the average pay of a Big Three autoworker is $73 an hour, but what is really behind that number? Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [A1.] 
 As a result of their muted involvement in the debate over a federal bailout of the auto industry, foreign auto makers have largely escaped any blame for Detroit's woes. [B1.]
 As Congressional Democrats sought to hammer out the final terms of a taxpayer rescue of the American automobile industry, Republican support for the bill was in doubt . [B4.]
 GLOBAL RECESSION The international financial crisis is set to slow growth sharply in emerging and developing economies next year, the World Bank said. [B1.]
 RISKY DOWNSIDE The Federal Housing Administration is the sudden star of the housing market, but as its business rises, so does the risk of fraud. [B1.]
 PITCH FOR AID Biotechnology industry executives plan to ask Congress for a temporary change in the tax law that will allow them to receive potentially hundreds of millions of dollars. [B1.]
 MILITARY RESOURCES Defense spending is expected to tighten after President-elect Barack Obama takes office, and the fate of the F-22 supersonic fighter jet hangs in the balance. [B1.]
 CONGRESSIONAL HEARING The former chief executive of Fannie Mae, Daniel H. Mudd, and his counterpart at Freddie Mac, Richard F. Syron, left, faced pointed questioning from lawmakers on the role of the housing giants in the subprime crisis. [B3.]
 VOICE OF DISSENT Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, the only Republican on a Congressional panel overseeing the $700 billion rescue plan, questioned the panel's first report. [B4.]
 LABOR SUIT SETTLED Wal-Mart Stores said it would pay up to $54.25 million to settle a class-action lawsuit that claimed it violated state laws on workers' break time in Minnesota. [B7.]
 BIG RISK NBC's decision turn over five hours of prime time to Jay Leno will have a major impact on the future of the network and the comedian. [B8.]
 Jay Leno's prime-time weeknight talk show is a new business model that is gaining support from Madison Avenue. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B8.]
 LAYOFFS The Sony Corporation plans to cut 8,000 jobs as consumers curb spending on electronics amid a global recession. [B8.]
 WEAK OUTLOOK The video game publisher Electronic Arts said it expected revenue and earnings for fiscal 2009 to miss its prior outlook because of weaker-than-expected holiday sales. [B9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); CLASS ACTIONS (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); LAYOFFS (67%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (53%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); SONY CORP (62%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (61%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (62%); SNE (NYSE) (62%); 6758 (TSE) (62%); EA (NASDAQ) (61%); WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RICHARD F SYRON (55%); JEB HENSARLING (54%); DANIEL H MUDD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



362 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Auto Industry Rescue Is Advancing

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats and the Bush administration on Tuesday night were on the brink of an agreement on a taxpayer rescue of the American automobile industry, with a vote in the House expected as soon as Wednesday afternoon. 
 But with less than six weeks left in President Bush's term, it was unclear if the White House would be able to generate Republican support for the proposal, which is crucial in the Senate where, for procedural reasons, the bill needs 60 votes to advance. 
 A group of Republican senators likely to oppose the auto bailout plan scheduled a news conference for noon on Wednesday, raising the prospect of a legislative battle that could keep the Senate in session well into next week. 
 Republican aides said the White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, would make an unusual appearance on Wednesday at the weekly Senate Republican lunch to sell the auto rescue plan to reluctant legislators. 
 The rescue plan would extend $15 billion in emergency loans to General Motors and Chrysler, the two most imperiled automakers, and would subject them to far-reaching government oversight at the direction of a so-called car czar to be named by Mr. Bush. 
 Ford is not seeking short-term loans because it is not as bad off as the other two big automakers.
 By Tuesday evening, White House and Democratic Congressional negotiators, meeting at the Capitol, had narrowed their differences to one major issue: a proposal to bar the automakers from fighting state laws that seek to cap greenhouse gas emissions.
 Senior Congressional aides said that one of the more complicated aspects of the talks related to Chrysler's unusual corporate structure: 80 percent of the company is owned by Cerberus, a private equity firm, and 20 percent by Daimler. 
 The aides said that negotiators were near agreement on a plan to hold Cerberus liable, as Chrysler's parent company, for any losses the government might face in connection with the emergency loans and to require the firm to make taxpayers whole. 
 A senior administration official said that bill would set a firm deadline of March 31 for the car czar to certify that the automakers and their stakeholders, including creditors, labor unions and dealers, had agreed to carry out a long-term viability plan and that the bill would set out ''a hard economic definition of what it means to be a viable firm.'' 
 The official said that if there were no such agreement, the auto czar would be required to demand repayment of the administration rather than giving the czar discretion to call in the loan, which Democrats had initially proposed. The bill would also allow the auto czar to impose a viability plan, which could force a company into bankruptcy. 
 ''There are a lot of people who are arguing the only way these firms will become viable is through Chapter 11,'' the senior official said. ''You have got a chance to negotiate, but if you don't, the president's designee must come forward with a plan that he would propose, including, potentially, Chapter 11 reorganization.'' 
 The auto bailout legislation will give the government stock warrants in the automakers, allowing taxpayers to profit should share prices rise. The bill will also bar shareholder dividends, executive bonuses and ''golden parachute'' severance packages. 
 To address concerns raised by the White House on Monday, the bill will require the car czar to call in the emergency loans for repayment should the auto companies fail to carry out aggressive reorganization plans or meet other obligations in the law.
 Congressional Democrats also agreed to a White House request to raise to $100 million, from $25 million, the size of business transactions requiring the approval of the auto overseer. The administration said it did not want to micromanage the automakers. 
 Aides suggested that the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, whose district is in California, where an emissions lawsuit is under way, might be willing to compromise on that point in exchange for White House assurances that Republican lawmakers would support the bill. 
 But it was unclear if the lame duck White House would have the leverage to cajole lawmakers into supporting the measure. 
 Republican support is particularly important in the Senate where the bill needs 60 votes to advance and where Democrats now hold a 50 to 49 majority, with one vacancy because of the resignation of President-elect Barack Mr. Obama as senator. 
 Some top Republicans including Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the party's senior member of the banking committee, say they will oppose the measure. And on Tuesday, Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, said that he also object. 
 The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said that lawmakers might need to work through the weekend to get the rescue plan approved. But he expressed resolve. 
 ''There will be no stalling us from doing this,'' Mr. Reid said on the Senate floor on Tuesday afternoon. ''We are going to complete this legislation.'' 
 The Democrats may face difficulties generating votes in their own caucus as well. There were 10 Democrats who voted against the $700 billion financial system bailout in October, some of whom could similarly oppose a taxpayer rescue of the auto companies. 
 In addition, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, are scheduled to leave Washington on Wednesday for a trip overseas. 
 Mr. Reid said he would urge lawmakers in both parties to be available to vote on the auto rescue package. ''I would suggest it's not a very good vote to miss,'' he said. ''Maybe multiple votes.'' 
 Multiple procedural votes seemed increasingly likely given the Republican displeasure with the way the legislation has been handled. As of late Tuesday, rank-and-file lawmakers said they had yet to receive a final draft of the bill for their review. 
 Mr. Ensign, and other Republicans including Senators Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, Jim DeMint of South Carolina and David Vitter of Louisiana, who are all expected to oppose the auto bailout, scheduled a news conference for noon on Wednesday. 
 The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has raised some concerns about the draft legislation, but has not indicated if he will support it. 
 The House majority leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, said that Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama could help build support. 
 ''My premise is if we have the president, if we have the president-elect or his people and the leadership on both sides of the aisle say this is something we need to do, I think we can get the votes,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush, left, and his chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, will press for Republican support of the rescue plan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); PARENT COMPANIES (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%); EMISSIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



363 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; DINING BLOGS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Recent Postings From the Web

BYLINE: By Recent Postings From the Web

 BODY:
DINER'S JOURNAL 
 From an entry by Kim Severson on nytimes.com/dinersjournal.
 Sad news for fans of the long-running ''Food Talk'' show on WOR radio, which gives the food-obsessed a daily dose of New York food gossip, recipe help and restaurant tips. 
 As of Jan. 5, the show will be cut back to Sundays only.
 The word from Paul Siebold, the station's marketing director, was short and not exactly sweet. Actually, it didn't really explain much at all: ''The dropping of the 'Food Talk' program from WOR's weekday schedule is part of the evolution of our News/Talk brand. WOR is exploring various ways to continue the 'Food Talk' brand.'' 
 From an entry by Kim Severson on nytimes.com/dinersjournal. 
 ...nearly 90 notable figures in the world of sustainable agriculture and food sent a letter to the Obama transition team offering their six top picks for what they called the ''sustainable choice'' for the next United States secretary of agriculture. ...
 For those playing along at home, here's their list. Keep in mind that Representative John T. Salazar, Democrat of Colorado, a potato farmer, has said he is being considered. (And no, the effort to nominate Michael Pollan never got off the ground):
 August Schumacher Jr., former under secretary of agriculture for farm and foreign agricultural services and former agriculture commissioner for Massachusetts. 
 Chuck Hassebrook, executive director of the Center for Rural Affairs in Lyons, Neb. 
 Sarah M. Vogel, former agriculture commissioner for North Dakota and a lawyer in Bismarck, N.D. 
 Fred Kirschenmann, organic farmer, distinguished fellow at the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture in Ames, Iowa, and president of the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture in Pocantico Hills, N.Y. 
 Mark Ritchie, Minnesota secretary of state, former policy analyst in the Minnesota Department of Agriculture under Gov. Rudy Perpich and a co-founder of the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy. 
 Neil D. Hamilton, the Dwight D. Opperman chair of law and director of the Agricultural Law Center at Drake University in Des Moines.
 Wow! This is such an encouraging move. I hope that such a grass-roots recommendation is respected and heard. I would also suggest that President Obama form an all-powerful advisory committee of key players like farmers, ranchers, chefs, herbalists, ethnobotanists and food, garden and nutrition educators to help him and the secretary of agriculture in matters of food, agriculture and health.
 Let us hope for the best,
 Pramod Parajuli, Ph.D.
 Professor of sustainability education and sustainable food systems 
 Prescott College
 Prescott, Ariz.
 My fingers are crossed for such a bold choice. It's time to end agribusiness' stranglehold on the department. -- Adriane
 From an entry by Frank Bruni and Kim Severson on nytimes.com/dinersjournal. 
 We're at that point in December when publicists, prognosticators and other professionals who can be characterized by words that begin with a P gaze into the epicurean future and place their wagers on the year to come.
 What will be big in 2009? ...
 Because it threatens to be a tepid dining year, given this little rough patch that the American economy has hit, let's at least greet 2009 with some bold predictions.
 Damn the torpedoes! Full soothsaying ahead!
 Here we go, and we invite you to lengthen this list:
 Restaurants that bring you closer to your food by having you butcher your own meat. Liability waiver must be signed first.
 Potluck restaurants. Everybody brings his or her own dish to share!
 ''Parkas required'' replaces ''jackets required.'' This way, thermostats can be kept low and restaurant heating costs contained.
 Ten percent discounts for diners who show proof of purchasing any two of the following: the chef's illustrated 525-page memoir; the chef's boxed set of cooking DVDs; a piece of the chef's signature cooking equipment; a frozen entree in the chef's line of supermarket cuisine.
 Guppy tempura.
 Lettuce tempura.
 Tempura.
 Silly restaurant-related blog items.
 Home cooking with fresh ingredients bought at a reputable retailer. -- Marco
 The Eat Local movement will get even larger with the economic downturn. With the reduced transportation costs, eating local produce and livestock -- maybe a bit more game, to really go out on a limb -- will be the Next Big Thing in 2009. -- Chris
 Jean-Georges opens ''Moins,'' a chain of 99-cent restaurants. -- hal2008
 Featuring low and slow cooking, dining ''clubs'' flourish -- taking full advantage of the fancy kitchens built (but rarely used) during the real estate boom.-- gg
 The local soup kitchen. -- h.l.
 Smoked air. Deep-fried foam. Backyard chickens. Lawn-fed beef. -- warrior ant press
 BITTEN
 From an entry by Emily Weinstein on nytimes.com/bitten.
 I love braising. I really do. I love getting all the veggies ready and throwing them in the pot; the smell of the stock and the wine simmering; how warm it makes my apartment while I do other things and it just sits there, cooking itself; and the method's forgiving nature, that you can just put the meat in the pot with lots of room for error. The importance of this last point bears repeating: for nonmeticulous cooks like me, it's great to know that a few minutes over or under is not that big a deal.
 From ''All About Braising'' by Molly Stevens, I picked out a Provencal-style braised lamb recipe, with tomatoes, lemons, white wine and olives. She devotes a section at the beginning of the book to proper pots, and, thankfully, she offers lots of options for those people, like me, who don't have a Dutch oven and will probably end up covering whatever they do have in tinfoil because it doesn't have a cover. ...
 The first step in the recipe -- trimming the lamb of what Ms. Stevens describes as ''a tough parchmentlike outer layer (called the fell),'' as well as ''excess fat'' but not ''the thin membrane that holds the shank together'' because it will melt off anyway -- turned out to be the hardest. Why? 
 It required some cooking judgment. I do think I am on my way to building this muscle. However, in the meantime, I was left to turn each of the two one-and-a-half-pound shanks over and over in my hands, looking for the bad kind of excess fat, not the kind of excess fat that I shouldn't fuss with.
 This is a bit what it was like. I'd trim, with a paring knife, what I thought was most of the excess fat. I'd put down the shank.
 Then I'd notice a bit more. Then more. O.K., I'm putting it down for real now. Wait -- that looks like some excess fat I missed. And so on, until, 20 minutes later, I was still looking for pieces of fat without officially moving into a state of too-much-fat-removal. And judging from the very small amount of fat that dripped off the shanks when I browned them, I may have gone too far.
 That did not prevent the dish from being delicious. The procedure, though long, is really as simple as can be. This dish, of any I've made so far, is the biggest fake out, the most complex and impressive in relation to the amount of effort I put in. As it happened, two someones ended up over for dinner -- Michael and Stephanie -- and Michael, who has tasted many of these dishes in the past few weeks, thought it was the best. The lemon and olive flavors, which were added to the pot and set on the stove at the very end, intermingled perfectly with the richness of the lamb and the tomatoes.
 They were noticeable enough to make the whole thing special, but still subtle enough to render the dish sophisticated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE FORECAST: Will trends in 2009 include required parkas in restaurants? (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR LOPES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 WHEN PIGS VOTE: Who will be secretary of agriculture? Suggestions abound.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL URBAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (79%); RESTAURANTS (79%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BOTANY (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); HERBAL MEDICINE (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); JOHN T SALAZAR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (75%); LYON, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



364 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: A Fighter Jet's Fate Poses A Quandary for Obama

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Two of President-elect Barack Obama's stated goals -- cutting wasteful spending and saving or creating millions of jobs -- are on a collision course in a looming decision over whether to keep building the F-22 fighter jet.
 Air Force officials have told Congress that they are hoping to win a $9 billion commitment to produce at least 60 F-22s over a three-year period, which would expand the fleet to 243.
 But the F-22, a stealthy, supersonic fighter that was designed during the cold war and has never been used in combat, has many critics, and they include Robert M. Gates, who will remain Defense secretary in the Obama administration. Mr. Gates has questioned the relevancy of the F-22, and said the military should focus its resources more on fighting insurgencies like those in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 Meanwhile, supporters of the F-22 program -- which has cost more than $65 billion so far -- argue that Mr. Obama should extend its production, at least temporarily, to preserve thousands of jobs related to building the jets, which cost $143 million each. 
 ''To continue F-22 production would be to continue all the fundamental problems we've been having over the last 30 years, where each new weapons system costs so much that we end up with a dwindling inventory of planes, ships and tanks,'' said Winslow T. Wheeler, an analyst at the Center for Defense Information, a nonprofit group in Washington.
 ''It's the first test of whether President Obama is going to go along with business as usual or instead will bring much needed change to the Pentagon,'' he added.
 Defense experts say his decision, expected early next year, could provide the first sign of whether the economic crisis would force the military to make much harder choices about what kind of wars it should be prepared to fight. 
 So far, Mr. Obama has been vague about his defense plans, saying only that he does not intend to cut the recent record spending levels while the nation is at war and that he will review major weapons programs with Pentagon and Congressional leaders. 
 But nearly everyone expects defense spending to tighten over time, and that the military will no longer have enough money to prepare for every contingency. 
 As a result, Mr. Obama's transition team is already being lobbied by military services seeking to preserve prized programs, from the Army's plans for advanced combat gear to the ground-based missile defense system.
 The F-22 program, which the Bush administration wanted to end, may survive only if something else is cut from the Pentagon budget. That means the Obama administration's decision will set the tone for how tough-minded it will be in balancing competing pressures.
 Without further spending for the F-22, companies that supply critical components for it would begin shutting down soon. 
 The chairmen and ranking Republicans on both the House and Senate defense appropriations subcommittees recently wrote to Mr. Gates to voice their support for the F-22, cautioning that ''the last thing our nation needs is to terminate jobs in this time of such economic uncertainty.'' 
 Like many big weapons systems, the plane, which relies on 1,000 parts suppliers in 44 states, has strong support in Congress, which recently provided up to $140 million in bridge financing for some of the suppliers. 
 ''I think we're going to keep the F-22 going, that's my gut instinct,'' said Norman Dicks, a Democrat from Washington who also sits on the House subcommittee that approves money for defense programs.
 ''But it's going to be a very tight budget environment,'' he said. ''We've still got the $12 billion to $15 billion a month that we're spending on the war, we've got to replenish the troops and the equipment that has been used up, and we've still got this whole need to modernize the Air Force, the Army and the Navy. And a lot of people are going to look at the consequences of ending these programs on a further deterioration in the economy.''
 The plane had far more support in the 1980s, when the Air Force envisioned buying up to 750 of the planes to dominate dogfights with Soviet jets. 
 The F-22 can perform tactical operations at higher altitudes than other fighters, and it can cruise at supersonic speeds without using telltale afterburners. With its stealthy skin that scatters radar detection signals, it can also sneak in and destroy enemy surface-to-air missile defenses, clearing the way for bombers and other planes to follow.
 Because of complications with some of the technologies, the plane ran into major delays and cost overruns that are typical of many defense projects, and more than 20 years passed before it was ready for military use in 2005. 
 By then, the Pentagon's focus had shifted to the wars against Islamic insurgents, and many critics, including Mr. Bush's first Defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, and then Mr. Gates, began slashing spending for the F-22, leading to unusually bitter confrontations with Air Force officials.
 Mr. Gates, in particular, has questioned what he called ''a tendency toward what might be called next-war-itis -- the propensity of much of the defense establishment to be in favor of what might be needed in a future conflict'' rather than the tanks and armored troop transports needed now. 
 Mr. Gates has pressed instead for more spending on heavily armored, mine-resistant troop transports and unmanned planes that can conduct surveillance and carry out missile strikes on terrorists.
 The Air Force said in a statement that it would be ''premature'' to talk publicly about its goals for the F-22 since Mr. Obama's team ''has not had the opportunity to establish a position.''
 But some Air Force officials say they are still required under the national military strategy to prepare for larger wars as well, no matter how remote the chances.
 ''Next-war-itis is a parallel to something called ostrich-itis, and that means you can't bury your head in the sand and assume that the way things are now are the way they'll be across the board in the future,'' said one senior military officer, who spoke on condition that he not be named because he was not authorized to discuss the matter.
 He added that Russia and China are also selling surface-to-air missile defense systems to smaller nations, and planes like the F-22 are needed ''to dissuade and deter other countries so we never have to fight.''
 Air Force officials also have told Congress that they need more F-22s to create cost-efficient squadrons in important locations and to provide pilot training. Another concern, they say, is that many of the F-15 Eagles, which have been the lead fighter jets for 25 to 30 years, are wearing out from overuse and age, while another new model, the Joint Strike Fighter, or F-35, is still several years away from full-scale production.
 Two of Mr. Gates's top advisers, Gordon England, the deputy secretary of Defense, and John J. Young Jr., the Pentagon's under secretary for acquisition, want to cut off spending for the F-22 to free up money for the Joint Strike Fighter.
 Though it cannot match the speed or evasiveness of the F-22, the joint fighter also has advanced stealth features. It is meant to be less expensive and built in far greater numbers for use by the Navy, the Marine Corps and major allies as well as the Air Force. 
 In the last several weeks, Mr. Young has seemed to step up his campaign against the plane, telling reporters that the F-22 needs $8 billion in upgrades, is expensive to maintain and has not lived up to all its performance promises.
 And a House Armed Services subcommittee has held a hearing to chastise Mr. Young for refusing to spend more than $50 million of the $140 million in bridge money that Congress had set aside for F-22 suppliers, thus increasing the pressure on the Obama administration to decide quickly whether to keep the program alive. 
 Under a previous deal, the main contractor, Lockheed Martin, will be working through 2011 to assemble the planes that the government has already ordered. But some of the delicate components take two to three years to produce, company officials say.
 So critical suppliers would start shutting down their lines if money was not provided soon for additional orders. And several thousand of the 25,000 people whose jobs depend on the plane could be laid off over the next year if their companies could not find replacement business. 
 Both Mr. England and Mr. Young will be departing with the Bush administration. 
 Mr. Obama's transition team wants to complete its own assessment of the military threats and weapons programs before making any recommendations. 
 ''What Obama has said repeatedly is that he wants to hear from senior military people on the options,'' said F. Whitten Peters, a former Air Force secretary who advised Mr. Obama on defense issues during the campaign but is not on his transition team. ''And at some point, rational minds can say, 'This is what we ought to do.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The F-22 fighter jet has been criticized as expensive, but cutting back on it would cost jobs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFTERIS PITARAKIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A Lockheed Martin facility in Marietta, Ga., that builds F-22s.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LOCKHEED MARTIN)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); ARMIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); COLD WAR (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR DEFENSE INFORMATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); ROBERT M GATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008



365 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FRONT ROW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: My, You Look So Grim

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
BLACK is back.
 Against an ever darkening backdrop of soaring unemployment numbers and economic turmoil, you may be forgiven for not noticing there was a mini Fashion Week going on in New York. Designers like Donna Karan, Zac Posen, Oscar de la Renta and Francisco Costa of Calvin Klein have been putting on runway shows for their intraseasonal collections, which go by names like ''pre-fall'' or, in the case of Ms. Karan, ''transeasonal.'' These are bread-and-butter collections for the designers, but, really, whoop-di-do. 
 Gauging the winds of fashion these days, it is just as telling to look at what the editors were wearing in the front row, as these are the early adopters. At the Calvin Klein show on Tuesday, 31 guests sat on one side of the runway. All but three of them were wearing black.
 Andre Leon Talley, the Vogue editor at large, wore a black turtleneck, a black suit and a black knit cap with Obama spelled out in rhinestones. Anna Wintour, who has been busy fighting back rumors of her imminent departure from the magazine, looked slightly more cheerful in an all-fur ensemble of gray and brown. But even Roberta Myers, the sunny editor of outperforming Elle, seemed to be dressed more for a bank heist; and Glenda Bailey, her counterpart at Harper's Bazaar, was wearing long black evening gloves -- at 10 a.m.
 The fashion crowd hasn't looked this dark since the early 1990s, when a uniform of all black was considered chic and slimming and before it became tired and Sprockety.
 Now black just fits the mood, like fashion's version of comfort food. The headline on the cover of Women's Wear Daily on Wednesday, referring to Ms. Karan's collection, was ''Black Watch.''
 ''Black is very versatile,'' said Mr. Costa, who opened his show with nearly a dozen all-black looks -- tight-fitting jackets worn over velvet pants, and dresses made with quilted panels of double-face silk, leather and washed wool. He said his work was inspired by a homey Amish patchwork blanket he found in a shop on Prince Street. It gave him an idea that, he said, seemed right for the times.
 ''I like that comfortable, warm feeling,'' he said. ''It feels like being taken care of.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DARKNESS FALLS: The Calvin Klein pre-fall show reflected the times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN LECCA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



366 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEN/NOW; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: A Deco Skyscraper Endures as Its Surroundings Are Transformed

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The former New York Telephone Company Building at 140 West Street has always looked like something produced by the force of nature: a Monument Valley mesa rising, however improbably, over the Hudson River. 
 ''Its massing is mountainlike -- sumptuous masses piled on top of each other for an overall effect of immense repose,'' Paul Goldberger wrote in his 1978 architectural guidebook, ''The City Observed: New York,'' for which the first photograph was taken. 
 It is fitting that something so elemental has survived the transformation around it, including the rise, fall and rebirth of the World Trade Center.
 So much has changed in this riverfront scene over 30 years. In the foreground in 1978 was the elevated West Side Highway viaduct, then in the process of being dismantled.
 Along the elevated highway's route, in the Washington Street Urban Renewal Area, came several giant buildings, two of which are in the 2008 picture, to the left of 140 West Street.
 In the distance is 388-90 Greenwich Street, now home to several Citigroup divisions. It was formerly home to the Travelers Group, before that to Shearson Lehman Hutton, and before that to Shearson/American Express.
 A bit closer in, with the strongly patterned facade, is 101 Warren Street, also known as 270 Greenwich Street, a new residential and retail complex with a Whole Foods Market. (Whole Foods had not even been founded when the first photo was taken.)
 Then comes 140 West Street itself, designed by Ralph Walker and completed in 1927 for New York Telephone, the corporate ancestor of Nynex, Bell Atlantic and Verizon. The building was designated an official city landmark in 1991. Though it survived the inferno in 2001, it had to be extensively rehabilitated. It has been Verizon's headquarters since 2005.
 To the right of 140 West Street in 1978 was open sky. That space was later filled with the first 7 World Trade Center, which burned and collapsed on 9/11. In its place, and visible in the 2008 photo, is the new 7 World Trade Center.
 The low, dark, steel and glass structure in the 1978 view was 6 World Trade Center, the United States Custom House. The blank white wall at its base was, in essence, the pedestal from which the trade center rose along West Street -- an unforgiving and uninviting streetscape.
 The cranes in the contemporary view are building 1 World Trade Center, also known as the Freedom Tower. By this time next year, 140 West Street will have been overshadowed. But if history is any guide, it will never be overpowered.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The former New York Telephone Company Building at 140 West Street, shown in 1978, has survived the transformation around it, including the rise and fall of the World Trade Center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/''THE CITY OBSERVED: NEW YORK'')
 The cranes in the contemporary view are building 1 World Trade Center, also known as the Freedom Tower, and in the coming months, 140 West Street will be overshadowed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: VERIZON NEW YORK INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); WFM (NASDAQ) (54%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



367 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: NO RECESSION IN THE BRONX

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Sooner or later, the odds are that the Yankees will get this omnipotence thing down. One of these years they will land their free-agent piece de resistance, the stirrer of a new championship drink, the Reggie Jackson of his time. C. C. Sabathia at the top of their rotation could be the $161 million ticket that punches them into October next season, all the way to a scheduled and numbing World Series conclusion in November. 
 That is the strategy, anyway. That is the hope. They will outpurchase the impressive youth movement in Tampa Bay and the more consistently reasoned management in Boston, which has sprayed Champagne twice in the years since the Yankees' clubhouse went dry. With the signing of Sabathia to the richest contract ever for a pitcher seemingly imminent, the Yankees will land the biggest off-season catch, the only thing they have done better than everyone else for a good while now. 
 More than planning, the Yankees have been fishing for a championship, throwing staggering sums of money into the water for the biggest names in the business, and being declared the champions of winter -- as many times this decade as they were actual champions of baseball during the last one.
 In the 21st century, the swagger behind the expenditure has never lasted as long as they needed it to. Since 2001, the Yankees have not measured up against what Gabe Paul built in the 1970s, pre-Reggie, or what Gene Michael & Company crafted in the early 1990s for the eventual managerial beneficiary, Joe Torre.
 Blame the players who were paid extraordinary amounts to make the difference, the architects for flawed foundations, or no one at all. But Jason Giambi and Mike Mussina failed to produce World Series banner No. 27, and neither have Kevin Brown and Randy Johnson; Johnny Damon and the material guy, Alex Rodriguez; the supercontrived second coming of Roger Clemens and the feel-good return of Andy Pettitte.
 The closing of Yankee Stadium and the changing of the ownership guard did not inspire greatness. April will bring the gala opening of a new ballpark that seems to be costing the strapped taxpayers by the minute, but with an old Steinbrenner family approach after the failed 2008 experiment with patience and youth.
 Phil Hughes and Ian Kennedy didn't pitch in fast enough, and the season ended with people wondering how General Manager Brian Cashman could have let Johan Santana go to the Mets. Cashman gets a more expensive do-over with Sabathia, apparently bidding against himself after the initial offer of $140 million. That was because Sabathia seemed to be as hot for New York as Randy Johnson was when he showed up scowling in 2005, treating welcoming photographers as if they were auditors from the I.R.S.
 No less a free-agent Yankees icon than the great Reggie himself sat in on one of the meetings with Sabathia, one West Coast dude to another, to endorse relocating to a place where, you never know, they might name a candy bar after you. Jackson was telephoned Wednesday for the purpose of finding out how reluctant Sabathia originally seemed about playing in New York, at least until it became clear there were no offers from out West that were in the ballpark of the one on River Avenue. But he said he couldn't talk. He said he was at that very moment on another line with a prospective free agent and would be tied up for a while.
 For the Yankees' sake, hopefully it was another big target and not Sabathia -- still needing assurance that the tabloids or the more vociferous son of George Steinbrenner, Hank, would refrain from blaming his considerable girth. Count on that, for sure. 
 In the unlikely event the Yankees limit their holiday shopping to Sabathia, a formidable top of the rotation can already be envisioned with a healthy Chien-Ming Wang and Joba Chamberlain. They can always bring back Pettitte, and Hughes may turn out to be on the same developmental track as the Mets' Mike Pelfrey, if he stays healthy and the Yankees just let him pitch. 
 But the Yankees seem disinclined to take risks this time around, leave any pitching to chance. As much as Francisco Rodriguez was a relative bargain for the Mets in a buyer's market for closers, the Yankees will take a deep breath and guarantee seven years for Sabathia, seldom the most prudent deal for a pitcher. It's not his age, 28, as much as it is his body, not the picture of fitness. 
 Like the Mets' Omar Minaya, Cashman has more work to do. One free-agent score -- even the biggest one there is to make -- guarantees only heightened expectations. Beyond the mound, the Yankees have an aging core, questions at important field positions. They have the Rays and the Red Sox to contend with in their division. Once again, it is a long way to the World Series from the free-agent championship of winter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: C. C. Sabathia, who is 6 feet 7 inches and 311 pounds, led the major leagues in innings pitched in each of the last two seasons while going 36-17.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Reggie Jackson encouraged C. C. Sabathia to sign with the Yankees by trying to assuage his concerns about living in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



368 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2170 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, Dec. 11, 2008

 BODY:
Foreign
 LIKUD TILTS TO RIGHT OF LEADER
 Benjamin Netanyahu's candidates for the Israeli Parliament are more hawkish than he is, making it harder for him to promise a centrist coalition if elected. Above, an Israeli votes, under a portrait of Mr. Netanyahu, during an internal Likud party contest to determine their general election candidates. PAGE A6
 SUICIDE TELEVISED IN ENGLAND
 On Wednesday night, Britons could watch Craig Ewert, 59 and almost completely incapacitated by motor neuron disease, die on television. The film, ''Right to Die?'' was broadcast on Sky Television, and showed how he traveled to a clinic in Zurich in 2006 and took a fatal dose of barbiturates. It has thrown a new bomb into an already contentious debate. PAGE A6 
 Sunni Militants' Chief Missing A7
 French Minister Doubts Rights Push A8
 OPPOSING REPORTS ON PLANE CRASH
 A Brazilian report on the collision of an American-owned jet and a Brazilian airliner over the Amazon in 2006 puts part of the blame on the American pilots. But a dissenting report by the United States National Transportation Safety Board blames the Brazilian air traffic control system. PAGE A10 
 2 MEN CITED AS TRAINING ATTACKERS
 The lone surviving gunman of the 10 who laid siege to Mumbai has identified a second and third man as major planners and coordinator of the plot. In addition to Zaki ur-Rehman Lakhvi, of Lashkar-e-Taiba, the gunman named Abu Hamza and a man known only as Khafa. They are also leading members of Lashkar-e-Taiba. PAGE A11 
 Climate Meeting Stalled by Change A12 
 Ban Lomtuan Journal
 Watching Fire Before It Goes Out
 Thousands of fireflies fill the trees along the Mae Klong River in Thailand, flashing on and off in unison, and even after 200 years of study, the phenomenon remains a mystery. But synchronous flashing may be disappearing. Like many creatures, fireflies appear to be suffering as human development spreads. In Ban Lomtuan, the traffic of motorboats and the riverbank development seem to be driving the fireflies away. PAGE A20 
 CHINA DETAINS PROTESTERS
 China celebrated International Human Rights Day by sending public security officials to quell a protest by about 40 people outside the Foreign Ministry. After about 30 minutes of calling for free elections and demanding a crackdown on corruption, the demonstrators were herded onto buses and taken away. PAGE A20 
 Riot-Torn Greece Hit by Strikes A22
 NATIONAL
 CHARGES AGAINST THE GOVERNOR,
 Scrutiny for the First Lady
 Patricia Blagojevich has a deep-rooted political pedigree in Chicago not much on display in the six years since she became first lady of Illinois. But in a federal complaint against her husband, Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich, she appears to be an influential and demanding partner to his schemes to cash in on the Senate seat vacated by President-elect Barack Obama. PAGE A40
 PRINCETON SETTLES SUIT OVER GIFT
 In a settlement of a lawsuit involving a gift in 1961 by heirs to the A.&P. grocery fortune, Princeton will get to keep the bulk of the endowment, valued at $900 million in June (and maybe $600 million now). Descendants of the heirs had argued Princeton was misusing the gift by applying it too broadly. PAGE A29
 A SUIT WITH 9/11 IN THE FOREGROUND
 Justices heard arguments in a lawsuit brought by a Muslim man accusing the former attorney general and the director of the F.B.I. of complicity in post-9/11 abuses of him, with the issue at hand being a garden-variety question of civil procedure: How specific must accusations of misconduct be before a lawsuit can continue? PAGE A33
 DISPARATE VIEWS ON ASTHMA DRUGS
 One federal drug official told a panel of experts that more than 14,000 people may have died since 1994 after taking popular asthma drugs. Another said even more might have died without the medicines. On Thursday, an advisory board will have to vote for one view or the other. PAGE A41
 EXECUTIONS IN U.S. DECLINE
 Executions in the United States fell to a 14-year low, an anti-death penalty advocacy group says, with a total of 37. The number of people sentenced to death was the lowest number in three decades, the group said. ''Revelations of mistakes, cases reversed by DNA testing, all of these things have put a dent in the whole system and caused hesitation,'' the group's director said. PAGE A42
 A SCIENCE FICTION LESSON
 It was a gathering to prove that two alien cultures can reach out and touch each other: on the one hand, science, on the other, Hollywood. It just happened that a Hollywood representative, Keanu Reeves, plays a space creature in his coming movie, above, with Jaden Smith. So he got questions like this: ''How could an alien being grow so fast without violating standard mass- and energy-conservation laws?'' PAGE A29
 A SIGN OF LIFE THAT ISN'T
 Astronomers have detected carbon dioxide in the atmosphere of a planet 63 light-years away. But life there is not considered a possibility, unless it has evolved to withstand temperatures of 1,700 degrees Fahrenheit. PAGE A41
 NEW YORK
 EXPECTED MEDICAID CUTS PROMPT
 Broader Discussion on Spending
 Gov. David A. Paterson's expected cuts to the state Medicaid program that reimburses hospitals and doctors for services to low-income patients has generated the expected warnings f of dire consequences. But the pending cuts have also set up a broader philosophical discussion over whether state spending on Medicaid is efficient. PAGE A45
 SENATE AGAIN LEADERLESS
 The power-sharing agreement by Democrats promoted last week as the answer to who would run the State Senate (them, for the first time in decades) has fallen apart. The collapse, which comes as the state faces perhaps its most severe fiscal crisis in decades, may also mean that the Senate could have a new leader who is not a Democrat. PAGE A43
 THE FOUNTAIN OF YOUTHS
 In Kiryas Joel, N.Y., the average family has 8.33 children, and recent census figures showed that the median age makes it the youngest community in the country with 20,000 or more people. But there are almost no parks and no ball fields. ''They're all too busy studying and making progress intellectually,'' said the village administrator. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE A45
 SPORTS
 YANKEES HOPE SABATHIA
 Brings a Ring With Him
 Perhaps one of these days a Yankees free-agent signing will deliver a World Series championship, Harvey Araton writes. And perhaps that signing will be C. C. Sabathia. But it is worth noting that, to date, Jason Giambi, Mike Mussina, Alex Rodriguez and assorted others have not turned the trick. Sports of The Times. PAGE B13
 BASEBALL SECOND NOW FOR TORRE
 For the last 13 years or so, Joe Torre has avoided baseball's winter meetings, choosing instead to visit Las Vegas for a bit of golf and craps and betting on the horses with a group of friends. His ''guys' weekend,'' he called it. But this year the meetings came to him in Las Vegas, and so he decided he could mix a little business with pleasure. But mostly pleasure. PAGE B14 
 OBITUARIES
 A. BERNARD ACKERMAN, 72
 A founding figure in the field of dermatopathology. PAGE B12
 ROBERT PROSKY, 77
 A gruff desk sergeant in ''Hill Street Blues.'' PAGE B12
 BUSINESS
 EUROPE'S APPROACH ON EMISSIONS
 Illustrates Potential Problems
 Europe's struggles with its system of creating a market for emissions permits point up the problems in the task for the United States. Four years in, the system has produced little noticeable benefit to the climate but has generated a multibillion-dollar windfall for some of the continent's biggest polluters. Above, ethnic Albanians work at an open lignite mine in the village of Mirash, Kosovo. PAGE B1
 CAMERAS: BETTER AND CHEAPER, TOO
 David Pogue found some keepers in his annual survey of digital cameras, with optical image stabilizers and face recognition. And maybe it's the economy, but they seem to be cheaper, too. State of the Art. PAGE B1
 Computing Without That Whir B9
 CONCERNS OVER HEART DEVICE
 An electrical component for implantable heart devices should be tested on patients, a prominent cardiologist warned. The F.D.A. is requiring mechanical stress tests and animal studies. PAGE B2
 ACTORS BALK AT STRIKE
 The Screen Actors Guild is asking members to authorize a strike, normally an automatic step. But a cautious membership -- perhaps wary of current economic difficulty -- is not falling in line. PAGE B11
 TWO UP, ONE DOWN
 Of three start-ups that were profiled last December, an online T-shirt store has failed; a bakery-cafe is still going; and a property management software company has been rejuvenated. PAGE B7
 Cuts at Public Radio B11
 Russia Backs Oil Output Cut B9 
 HOME
 WHEN DOWNSIZING HITS
 Inside the Household
 Working professionals feeling economic pressure might cut expenses for domestic help. But because the connections tend to be close, and the workers may have few financial buffers, the changes can be difficult for all. PAGE D1
 THE HOME AWAY
 Thoreau's cabin was 10 feet by 15 feet. Lou Ureneck's in Western Maine will be 30 by 16, but similarly off the grid. And he will build it largely by himself -- along with his brother, Paul -- using materials he scrounged. PAGE D1
 FESTIVE AND SAFE
 A good way to put the holiday focus on children is to make sure your house is safe for them. PAGE D2
 Nature in Full Glory D10
 styles
 THE GREAT SALE OF 2008
 Guys. Feeling down, or poor (or both)? A trip to your department store may be a cure. There you have a good chance of happening on a harmonic convergence that occurs maybe once in a generation. An unrelenting Christmas cheer in the voices of salespeople, and unthinkable prices on the sales tags. PAGE E1
 Skin Deep
 Not Sharp Enough for the Razor
 Shaving with a straight razor is not as easy as a barber may lead you to believe. Just ask one of the students in the appropriately named class, Cut Throat 101. PAGE E3
 Are Modern Shavers Really Better? E3
 HIGHLIGHTS AT A DISCOUNT
 Who wouldn't like a $950 haircut for a fraction of the price, which is seen all too often at stylist parties? And although they have been around for years, salons are not thrilled about the idea. PAGE E1
 Critical Shopper E4 
 Letters to the Styles Editor E12 
 arts
 MENORAHS AND MARACAS
 Some music aficionados hope to expand a budding new category of Jewish music -- built from folk tunes and religious chants, and upgraded with modern-day beats and instruments. The genre is one that resonates especially with younger listeners who seek this music in rediscovering their own Jewish heritage. PAGE C1
 Music Reviews
 'Lightning at Our Feet'
 Michael Gordon's new multimedia work is built around Emily Dickinson's poems. His aim was not to reach back to Dickinson as most composers who set her poetry do, but to imagine Dickinson as a 21st-century voice, spiritual and earthy in roughly equal parts. PAGE C1
 Variations on an Acoustic Theme C6
 Young Cellist Engages Ears and Eyes C3
 Book Review
 'Shakespeare and Modern Culture'
 An esteemed and apparently unstoppable scholar, Marjorie Garber's latest of her many Shakespeare-centric academic treatises is out to assert that ''Shakespeare makes modern culture, and modern culture makes Shakespeare.'' PAGE C9
 Dance Review: 'Danses Concertantes' C5
 Film Review: 'Herbert' C9 
 Editorial
 DARFUR, ANOTHER YEAR LATER
 It took years of political wrangling to get the United Nations Security Council to approve a strengthened peacekeeping force for Darfur, with deployment set for Jan. 1. More than 11 months later, the Security Council has managed to send only 10,000 of the promised 26,000 peacekeepers. PAGE A48 
 NOW THEY SAY THEY CAN DO IT
 Detroit's struggling automakers could do themselves and everyone else a favor by dropping their increasingly untenable legal assault on California's efforts to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks. PAGE A48 
 MR. RANGEL'S PROBLEMS ROLL ON
 There can be no clean start until the ethics panel answers all of the questions about Representative Charles Rangel of Harlem. With huge fiscal and tax issues looming for the new Congress, there can be no doubts about the leadership's priorities. PAGE A48 
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 These are troubled times, when people yearn for diversion. Then, suddenly, there was Rod, seeking bids for Barack Obama's Senate seat with all the subtlety of a tobacco auctioneer. PAGE A49 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 When Barack Obama chooses his secretary of agriculture, we need more than a bold reformer. We need the position renamed secretary of food. PAGE A49 
 THE PAUSE THAT DEPRESSES
 As the economy worsens, the wait until Barack Obama's swearing-in grows ever more frustrating. In 1916, when he seemed destined to lose his re-election bid, Woodrow Wilson had the same worries about a long interregnum, explains the Op-Ed contributor John Milton Cooper Jr. So Wilson drew up a secret plan to ensure an immediate transfer of power to his opponent. PAGE A49 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); AIRLINES (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (68%); CORRUPTION (65%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (64%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LASHKAR E TAYYABA (54%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (55%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (91%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); THAILAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



369 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Even in Recession, Spend They Must: Luxury Shoppers Anonymous

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
ONLY a year ago, Maggie Buckley might have indulged a craving for, say, satin opera gloves or python sandals with a quick trip to Saks or Bergdorf Goodman. But now, in these recessionary times, she tends to avoid such public sorties. 
 ''Shopping is almost embarrassing, and a little vulgar right now,'' said Ms. Buckley, an editor at Allure magazine. Loath to be seen loading freezer-size parcels into the back of a waiting cab, she finds herself shopping at under-the-radar soirees in the homes of her friends. 
 Ms. Buckley is one in a coterie of shoppers turning their backs on conspicuous consumption but trawling for treasures nonetheless at invitation-only shopping events springing up in hotel suites, at private showrooms or in the well-appointed parlors of their peers. Feeling the pangs of conscience, they are shopping on the down-low, finding deals in places that are the retail equivalent of a safari on a private game reserve. 
 ''People don't want to be as public about shopping for luxury goods as they were in the past,'' said Robert Burke, a luxury retail consultant in New York. ''It's a feel-good way to buy, and this is a time for feel-good things.'' 
 Such covert shopping has long been enjoyed by the upper crust, people who could pay six figures for diamond-and-sapphire brooch or sable wrap -- and the privilege of exclusivity. But in the current climate, stealth consumption has gained a more potent appeal, taking place at gatherings with an insiders' feel. 
 ''We're like a little secret that people want to share, but not with just anybody,'' said Eve Goldberg, an owner of William Goldberg, a diamond dealer in Manhattan. Ms. Goldberg's company recently opened a salon that caters to clients who prefer to shop discreetly. 
 ''People are saying: 'It's that time of year; I want to buy something, but I feel a little weird,' '' Ms. Goldberg said. ''Often they tell me, 'I don't want to be out there making an announcement with a big bag that says Harry Winston.' ''
 Private dealers, many of them dilettantes who acquire their wares from designer friends, at trade shows and from dealers and artisans in exotic locales, are the bane of recession-battered high-end merchants. Established retailers are hard pressed to compete with such luxury pop-up shops while maintaining inventories and absorbing the high costs of operating their businesses. 
 But under-the-radar parties offer the well heeled, and the well connected, a chance to snap up temptations without an inner censor chiding them for their spendthrift ways. 
 ''There is certainly a stigma to spending openly in this economy,'' said Eric Spangenberg, a consumer psychologist and the dean of the business school at Washington State University. ''These people don't want to appear flippant by disregarding the woes of the economy,'' he said, ''but they still want to get their shop on, and they're going to find a way.'' 
 Those who cannot wean themselves off the shopping habit flock to events that are, in Dr. Spangenberg's phrase, ''the high-end equivalent of a Tupperware party.'' There they trade gossip and air kisses -- and spring for crewelwork pashminas or pave diamond pet collars. 
 Sure, they are shopping. ''But they are also enjoying the camaraderie and a social experience,'' said Joan Horton, an event planner and decorator who offered a selection of shrugs she bought during buying trips abroad. Last week she displayed those items, sold under the Shrug Shop label, at a lavish three-day shopathon in the apartment of a friend. 
 The gathering, the brainchild of a clutch of freelance stylists, designers and merchants, offered handmade Balinese lace blouses, ikat patterned tablecloths, Indian shawls, snakeskin bags and Bakelite bangles.
 ''We were looking for a retail outlet,'' said Amy Eller, an organizer of the event. But then the Dow went into free fall, putting a crimp in their plans. ''We decided we would just become a floating marketplace,'' she said. 
 That marketplace took the form of a haute bohemian souk on Park Avenue, stocked with items priced from $25 to $700, shown off against a backdrop of crimson walls, 19th-century lithographs and faux leopard carpeting worthy of Elsie de Wolfe. Ten percent of the proceeds from the event, which drew about 300 guests and took in an estimated $60,000, went to VetDogs, which provides service dogs for disabled veterans. 
 ''People like the private atmosphere,'' Ms. Eller said. ''And they also felt they were giving back a little while they shopped.'' 
 SIMILAR opportunities for altruism may have eased the consciences of the 250 guests at the International Fashion party, a by-invitation event held last week at the Clift Hotel in San Francisco to benefit Rebekah Children's Services, which aids children with emotional and behavioral problems. But the party, which attracted the social figures Vanessa Getty, Sloan Barnett and the wives of several Silicon Valley executives, was also a magnet for trophy hunters. Filigreed chokers and diamond-studded earrings with an ornate Asian cast were offered alongside hair and eyelash extensions and a rack of furs supplied by Saks Fifth Avenue, which saw an opportunity to reach affluent clients. Prices ranged from $100 to $10,000 -- or, furs apart, about 10 percent above the wholesale cost. 
 ''We don't need to mark up items so much as a store might,'' said Dorothy Toressi, an organizer of the benefit. ''We don't need to hold inventories or pay salaries or other costs of overhead.''
 After checking in at the door and filing by a phalanx of security guards, guests sipped Champagne, fingered baubles arranged on muslin-draped tables and tested the heft of new handbags, happy all the while to be mingling with their own. 
 ''These parties can be social networking opportunities,'' said Susanna Stratton-Norris, a London-based knitwear designer who offered her opulent cashmeres for sale last month in a suite at the Regency Hotel in New York. She pulled her guest list together from a roster of clients she had cultivated in an earlier career as a decorator. 
 ''These people felt as if they belonged to a club,'' Ms. Stratton-Norris said, one that caters to their tastes ''and where they could meet like-minded people.'' Socially at ease, they were free to indulge an acquisitive streak, ''not embarrassed to purchase in multiples or to tell me, 'I'll have one of these in every color.' ''
 Other covert shoppers conduct their operations on the Web. 
 ''It seems counterintuitive, but the big ticket items are flying out,'' said Ricky Serbin of Ricky's Exceptional Treasures, a luxury resale store on eBay. Mr. Serbin said that in one week in November, he sold three Oscar de la Renta gowns, each for about $3,000. In flusher times they might have languished while shoppers indulged a yen for finery at luxury boutiques and upscale department stores. 
 What's changed? ''People like the anonymity of the Web,'' Mr. Serbin suggested. ''No one can see you coming out of Neiman Marcus moving a ball gown.''
 Tatiana Sorokko, who recently bought a Ralph Rucci ensemble from Mr. Serbin, supported that theory. ''In this economy, the people I know are making adjustments. Their transactions tend to be between themselves and the seller,'' said Ms. Sorokko, a former model and the owner with her husband, Serge, of a gallery in San Francisco. 
 Stealth shopping provides the satisfaction of ''buying something special from a person who you trust,'' she said. ''But you haven't gone public. No one will talk.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COVERT CONSUMPTION: Clockwise from above left, a peek at activities: Jano Herbosch, a host, shows off a necklace
Josephine Kathan of Saks, with a Russian sable jacket
Maureen Paulson models a shrug. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARCY PADILLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.E8) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY EDWINA WHITE) (pg.E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); DIAMOND MARKETS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



370 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Executions and Death Sentences in United States Dropped in 2008, Report Finds

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The use of capital punishment in the United States waned this year, as state and federal courts executed 37 inmates, a 14-year low, according to a new report. And courts sentenced 111 people to death in 2008, the lowest number of new condemnations in three decades. 
 In 2007, 42 people were executed and 115 were sentenced to death.
 The capital punishment data was compiled by the Death Penalty Information Center, a research and anti-death-penalty advocacy group.
 The lull in executions defied predictions that more prisoners would be put to death after a Supreme Court ruling in April upheld lethal injection and ended an eight-month moratorium. Since that decision, Baze v. Rees, states have granted stays in 25 capital cases as courts worked through issues including the mental illness of defendants, ineffective representation and revelations of potentially exculpatory evidence.
 Four death row inmates were exonerated in 2009, raising the total number of exonerations to 130 since 1976.
 Richard C. Deiter, the executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, said that the decline in executions proved that capital punishment was becoming less popular.
 ''Revelations of mistakes, cases reversed by DNA testing, all of these things have put a dent in the whole system and caused hesitation,'' Mr. Deiter said. ''I don't think what is happening is a moral opposition to the death penalty yet, but there is a greater scrutiny applied to the death penalty that wasn't there before.''
 Mr. Deiter also said that the economic meltdown and budget constraints were dissuading prosecutors from seeking capital trials, which usually cost millions of dollars and take decades to complete. 
 Death row inmates are also extraordinarily costly; in June, the California Commission on the Fair Administration of Justice reported that the death penalty system cost $138 million a year. California has the nation's largest death row, but has not executed anyone since 2006.
 Joshua Marquis, the district attorney of Clatsop County in Oregon and a death penalty supporter, said prosecutors factored in the high cost of capital cases before deciding whether to proceed.
 ''Prosecutors are the gatekeepers, and jurors are becoming more discriminating about when to seek and apply capital punishment,'' Mr. Marquis said. 
 Executions declined even in Texas, which led the nation with 26 inmates put to death in 2008. Over all, most of the nation's executions occurred in Southern states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (98%); SENTENCING (92%); PRISONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); DNA (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (54%); DNA TESTING (51%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



371 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Tax Shelter Helps Yankees Afford Those Big Salaries

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Yankees' expected signing of the massive left-handed pitcher C. C. Sabathia to a gigantic contract is the latest manifestation of the team's muscular business model.
 The Yankees generate $400 million or more in revenues and spend $200 million in player salaries.
 The team owns 38 percent of the YES Network, which pays the Yankees at least $70 million a year, and can receive still more cash from its cut of the channel's profits. 
 It is opening a new ballpark in the Bronx in April, only months after attracting a team-record 4.3 million fans for the final season at the old Yankee Stadium.
 The $1.3 billion stadium is designed to generate more revenue than the old one did, even as the recession worsens. But here's a sometimes-forgotten wrinkle that helps the Yankees rationalize contracts like Sabathia's $161 million over seven years: 
 Major League Baseball gives teams a tax shelter that justifies going into debt to build a stadium. Stadium costs, like bond payments and maintenance, can be deducted from the team's net local revenue that are used to calculate revenue-sharing.
 By slashing the revenues that are taxed at a 31 percent rate, the Yankees will be able to shelter a chunk of the money that would have been shared. They paid about $100 million into baseball's revenue-sharing pool in 2007, but could have received a multimillion-dollar credit if they had had their deductions for the new stadium.
 The new stadium will probably generate so much new revenue that it will compel the Yankees to again pay at least $100 million in revenue sharing. But the deduction will still allow the team to shield enough revenue to help pay off the construction bonds.
 The tax break, courtesy of baseball, is on top of the tax exemption the team received in 2006 for nearly all the $967 million in bonds that were issued to pay for construction of the stadium. The team now wants an additional $259 million in tax-free financing.
 A simpler calculation shows how the Yankees can afford Sabathia. Like many of us in this economy, the Yankees are cutting their spending; they have shed more than $80 million in the expired contracts of Jason Giambi, Mike Mussina, Carl Pavano, Andy Pettitte and Bobby Abreu. Pettitte might return at less than the $16 million he made last season.
 But the kind of contract thrown at Sabathia makes you believe the Yankees view him as their 311-pound stimulus package after their failure to make the playoffs. Is Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke advising Brian Cashman?
 And they only had to go to Vallejo, Calif., to beg for Sabathia's aid.
 Sabathia alone might give cheer to those attending games at the new stadium. Yet the team might add more fiscal stimuli, like A. J. Burnett and Derek Lowe, which would eat into their savings from expired contracts and keep their luxury tax high.
 But with tickets ranging from $12 in the bleachers to $2,500 closest to the field, Yankee fans might demand even more of their team. They probably won't be satisfied with wider concourses, flat-panel TV monitors and better food.
 ''If the stadium is going to pay off, they're going to need a competitive, compelling team,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College who is an expert in baseball finance. ''The Yankees are caught in a vise: they have a massive investment, the largest ever made by one team in a stadium in professional sports.'' 
 He added: ''They need to spend it on payroll to make the investment pay off -- and we're in the middle of the country's worst recession in 80 years.''
 However powerful Sabathia's left arm, he might not be able to accelerate the purchase of the still-unsold luxury suites and $500 to $2,500 premium seats at the stadium.
 But if you assume that the stadium will eventually sell out, then you can imagine that fans might economize on buying merchandise and food. 
 The Yankees could also be hurt by companies scaling back on advertising; the biggest potential stadium sponsor, Bank of America, has not completed its deal.
 Another gauge of Sabathia's impact will be at YES. Ratings soared through July but fell nearly 11 percent for the 2008 season. Will an ostensibly improved team perk up ratings and offset any losses from advertising? In a recession, said Tracy Dolgin, the president of YES, ''there's a flight to quality, to the networks with the best content.'' 
 YES has a big cushion against reduced advertising. Most of its revenues come from monthly subscriber fees that add up to about $200 million annually.
 Watching television, recession or not, does not require buying tickets, beer or steak in the Bronx -- and the Yankees benefit whether fans go or sit at home. ''There's no recession in sports viewership,'' said Lee Berke, an industry consultant. ''There is no drop-off among people following their favorites in the meat-and-potatoes sports.'' And Sabathia, with his David Wellsian physique, looks like a meat-and-potatoes guy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORTS REVENUES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BONDS (87%); SPORTS (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



372 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: South: Mississippi: Suit Over Housing Money

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Housing advocates and low-income residents sued to stop the state from spending a half-billion federal dollars to expand a damaged port rather than replace homes destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. The Mississippi State Conference N.A.A.C.P., Gulf Coast Fair Housing Center and residents sued the Department of Housing and Urban Development in federal court in Washington. Congressional leaders and others criticized the agency when it approved the state's plan to steer money to the hurricane-damaged port despite a lingering housing crisis caused by the storm in August 2005. Gov. Haley Barbour, above, a Republican, maintains that expanding the State Port at Gulfport, the third-busiest container port in the Gulf of Mexico, is crucial to the region's economic recovery. The storm surge devastated Mississippi's coast, washing away much of the affordable housing. Three years later, about 6,000 families remain in temporary housing. Housing prices have more than doubled and insurance costs have increased, forcing some to relocate. Lee Youngblood, a spokesman for the Mississippi Development Authority, said the port project would proceed. (AP) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FAMILY (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); RELOCATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); CITIES (56%)

COMPANY: MISSISSIPPI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (58%)

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



373 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words

 BODY:
AID TO HOMEOWNERSSheila C. Bair, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has called for billions in aid for struggling homeowners, angering administration officials. 
 AUTO BAILOUT The House approved a $14 billion rescue for the auto industry, but the plan was in jeopardy because of strong Republican opposition in the Senate. [B1.] 
 The firm that controls GMAC used the threat of bankruptcy to try to compel bondholders to accept plans for a bond-exchange program that many investors had been resisting. [B1.]
 CARBON CREDITS Setting up a workable market for climate change credits in Europe has proved difficult and contentious, pointing to pitfalls for the United States as it begins to consider a similar system. [B1.]
 STOCKS CLIMB Shares on Wall Street gained, and investors continued to flock to Treasury bonds, considered the safest investments, but with no returns on their money. [B5.]
 RUSSIA TO WORK WITH OPEC With its oil revenues falling, Russia is planning to work with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to coordinate a reduction in oil output, its minister of energy has said. [B9.]
 FINANCIAL CRISIS Congressional lawmakers insisted that the Treasury do more to monitor what banks do with federal bailout money. [B5.]
 MATERNITY LEAVE CASE The Supreme Court heard arguments in the case of four women who lost seniority credit for pension benefits when they took maternity leave from AT&T. [B7.]
 FLASH DRIVES Made from flash memory chips, new drives that are smaller and faster than traditional PC hard drives are catching buyers' eyes. [B9.]
 STADIUM ADS In the Indianapolis Colts' new stadium, Hhgregg has an ''appliance zone'' with televisions, dryers and ovens. And that's just the start. [B9.]
 CHINA EXPORTS PLUNGE Chinese exports registered their largest drop in nearly a decade last month, hinting that the worldwide recession could be far worse than many economists had previously thought. [B1.]
 SO LONG TO A PROPOSED L.B.O. The planned $50 billion takeover of Bell Canada was scrapped after the company's auditor declared Bell would be insolvent if the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan won control of the company. [B7.]
 WHOLESALE LEVEL SALES DROP Wholesalers reduced inventories in October by the largest amount since 9/11, and their sales fell by a record amount. [B2.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (90%); BONDS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); RECESSION (74%); INVENTORIES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); FLASH DRIVES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MEMORY CHIPS (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); APPEALS (51%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%); HHGREGG INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

TICKER: HGG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); NAICS443141 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



374 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Sit-In at Factory Ends With 2 Loan Agreements

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The occupation of a window-manufacturing plant here by employees who were laid off last week ended Wednesday after a six-day standoff that brought them to national attention amid growing anxiety about the plight of workers in the deteriorating economy. 
 Bank of America, which had cut off financing for the company, Republic Windows and Doors, said it would lend the company $1.35 million to help it meet the demands of the disgruntled workers. In addition, JPMorgan Chase, which owns 40 percent of the windows company, pledged an additional $400,000.
 The money will enable the company to pay 60 days of severance to more than 200 laid-off workers, who had been occupying a warehouse on this city's North Side, as well as vacation time they had accrued but which the company had previously said it would not pay, union officials representing the workers said.
 The resolution came after six days of negotiations among the bank, company owners and union leaders. The workers voted to end their sit-in on Wednesday evening, emerging from their factory chanting, ''Yes we did!''
 ''The occupation is over,'' said Armando Robles, a factory worker and president of Local 1110, of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America, which represented the workers. ''We have achieved a victory.''
 As publicity about the workers ballooned, politicians in Illinois began threatening inquiries into company owners and Bank of America, the recipient of billions in a federal bailout package. 
 Earlier Wednesday, the workers picketed in front of the downtown offices of Bank of America, joined by hundreds of sympathizers who packed more than two city blocks, chanting, ''You got bailed out, we got sold out!''
 On Dec. 3, company officials gathered the workers in the cafeteria of the factory and told them it would be shut down in just three days. Officials later said they had made various proposals to Bank of America for a lengthier wind-down but were rejected. 
 Workers contended that Republic's actions violated federal labor laws, which usually require 60 days' notice in cases of plant closings and large layoffs. The workers' anger grew after they learned that the company owners had formed a new window company, Echo Windows LLC, and bought a new plant in Red Oak, Iowa, where labor costs are cheaper. A spokesman for the company would not comment about the Iowa factory.
 Union officials also said they were creating a foundation to collect donations to try to reopen the factory here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINDOW & DOOR MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED ELECTRICAL RADIO & MACHINE WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



375 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Trickledown Downsizing

BYLINE: By JULIE SCELFO

 BODY:
IN September, Cathy DeVore, a real estate agent in Larchmont, N.Y., whose business has been at a standstill lately, began taking gradual steps to lay off her longtime nanny and housekeeper. Aware that the woman supports a son, a mother, and a niece in Dominica, and worried for their well-being, Mrs. DeVore wanted to make sure her employee found another source of income before losing her $500-a-week salary.
 ''I told her I was worried about her job security with me, and found her an additional day of work with my sister, and told her that she should start saving because I was worried about having to cut her back more,'' Mrs. DeVore said. ''In October I started a no-overtime policy; in November I told her that as of Jan. 1, I am cutting her back to 20 hours a week, and that as of June 30, I probably won't need her at all.'' 
 Mrs. DeVore said that both she and her employee (who declined to be interviewed and asked not to be named) had marveled at the speed with which the financial crisis had hit home. ''We talk about the trickledown effect of Wall Street, how my selling less houses is going to affect her mother living in her hut in Dominica, which is crazy,'' she said. ''But her mother is going to get less sugar because she has less money to send home.''
 In the New York area, where there is a high number of dual-career professionals and where workdays are notoriously long, the number of people filling in for them at home is also immense. Domestic Workers United, a nonprofit advocacy group, estimates there are more than 200,000 nannies, housekeepers, personal chefs and other domestic workers employed in the New York metropolitan area. 
 And as professionals recalibrate their spending because of job losses, salary or bonus cuts or just anxiety about the future, said Ai-jen Poo, an organizer at Domestic Workers United, ''domestic workers' wages are often the first thing that gets compromised.''
 ''Essentially, 10,000 jobs lost at Lehman Brothers means 10,000 domestic workers' jobs that are in jeopardy,'' she added, referring to the number of people in North America who were employed by the bank. 
 Given that the connection between domestic workers and their employers is often more intimate than other working relationships, when it is threatened by economic downturn, feelings on both sides run high. For employers, who form attachments to the people they entrust with their children and their homes, terminating or even scaling back the relationship can feel like betraying a family member. For workers -- particularly those who are being paid off the books and have little or no legal protection or financial buffer -- there is much more at stake. 
 One employer, a lawyer who grew up ''very middle class'' in a household with few luxuries, said that she and her husband, also a lawyer, had taken on a lot of domestic help -- a housecleaner, two part-time nannies, even a dog walker -- because ''our time became more valuable than anything'' when she went back to work after having children. But now that money has become more of an issue again, the woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity because she pays her workers under the table, said cutting back on their hours was not so easy. 
 ''We pay an extra five hours a week so we can have a date night,'' she said. ''It's a complete luxury so it could easily be cut'' -- except that one of the nannies, paid $18 an hour, depends on that extra work. 
 She is also considering dismissing the housecleaner, to whom she pays $150 a week. ''She doesn't do that great a job, but she has four kids and I know she relies on the money.'' 
 The cleaner once told her that she couldn't wait even a few days for a check to clear, suggesting to the lawyer that she lives hand-to-mouth. ''If being late is going to affect her, imagine firing her,'' the lawyer said.
 Many employers interviewed for this article said they had searched for other ways to save money before laying off housekeepers or nannies or cutting back on their wages. After losing her job teaching art classes in September, Vicki Devor (no relation to Cathy DeVore), a 48-year-old mother in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, gave up on eating lunch out and a $59-a-month gym membership, she said, before even considering laying off her housekeeper, who cleaned Ms. Devor's apartment twice a month for $100 a visit. 
 ''It was really hard,'' Ms. Devor said. ''She needs the money. Initially, I just cut her back to once a month, but told her that soon I wasn't going to be able to keep paying her. I just couldn't justify it.'' 
 The housekeeper has returned to her native Poland -- first to take care of an ailing sister, then of the sister's orphaned children -- and declined to be interviewed about her lost job.
 Often, employers who lay off domestic workers feel driven to help them find other employment. Alexa Winton, a design historian and adjunct instructor at Parsons, recently dismissed her daughter's three-day-a-week nanny, Regina Mingo, after cutting back on her own teaching schedule. ''As much as I had to make this financial decision for us, I feel so responsible for Regina,'' Ms. Winton said. ''She's a great baby sitter, and she hasn't found anything.''
 Ms. Winton has posted notices on two Brooklyn Internet message boards advertising Ms. Mingo's formidable skills and availability, but there have been few inquiries. 
 For her part, Ms. Mingo is trying to stay optimistic -- she has been a professional caregiver for New York families for 21 years, and says she knows former employers are looking out for her -- but her position with Ms. Winton was not the first job she lost this year. In June, a family that provided the two days of work that filled out her income laid her off. ''I was struggling to pay rent,'' she said, and in October she had to give up her third-floor walk-up in Carroll Gardens. At the moment, she is searching for a place to live. 
 ''Now, it's hard,'' Ms. Mingo said last week. ''Nobody's looking for baby sitters.'' 
 The message boards Ms. Winton used, Park Slope Parents and BoCoCa Parents (which is for families who live in Boerum Hill, Cobble Hill and Carroll Gardens), were already full of postings from parents recommending that other people hire their former sitters, or take on ''shares'' of their current ones. On Saturday, a woman who said her husband was recently laid off wrote on BoCoCa Parents, ''we love our nanny and want to try our best to keep her with us. If you would be interested in a nanny share -- we would love to speak with you.''
 Not all employers, of course, show so much concern. 
 Michelle, a nanny from Guyana who worked until recently in the New York area, and wouldn't give her last name because she is in the country illegally, said she had been with her employers, a media executive and his wife, for a year and a half before they fired her last month. ''They came to me one evening and said to me they can't afford to pay me anymore,'' said Michelle, who lives in Queens and supports two teenage sons in Guyana, and hasn't yet found a new job. ''I said, how long are you going to give me? And they said just the following week. It's close to Christmas. This is a very bad time.''
 Unemployed domestic workers who are able to secure new positions may have to accept lower salaries. Jaime Hochhauser, who runs the Right Staff, an agency that places nannies and housekeepers with families throughout the tri-state area, said the compensation being offered right now is about 20 percent less than it was six months ago, a decrease that's consistent ''even among the wealthiest clients.'' (Workers who are still employed, too, may find their circumstances reduced along with their bosses'. ''I got a 20% pay cut,'' someone posted on the UrbanBaby chat boards last week. ''Should I give one to my nanny as well?'')
 Employers are also combining positions, asking for nannies who will watch their children and do the cleaning, for example, or switching from three days a week of help to just one, according to Ms. Hochhauser and several other agency owners. 
 ''There's a lot of fear around job loss,'' said Ai-jen Poo, of Domestic Workers United. ''Workers are getting their hours cut, they're getting fired, their employers say they found somebody who will work for less.'' 
 And ''unlike other sectors getting hit, domestic workers have no safety net,'' she added. ''It's the invisible, untold story of this crisis. It's really hitting people hard.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SERIAL CUTS: Because of the economic downturn, many people are cutting back on household help, like nannies, housecleaners and personal chefs. Vicki Devor, left, a laid-off art teacher, let her housekeeper go. Regina Mingo, below left, a nanny, lost two jobs this year and gave up her apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAN FEINDT) (pg.D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) DOMINICA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



376 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Get Bobbed, But Don't Get Clipped

BYLINE: By LAUREN LIPTON

 BODY:
MANOUSH ZOMORODI'S most recent haircut was much like a typical visit to an exclusive Manhattan salon. She sipped pinot grigio, chatted with other clients and left with a bouncy, slightly layered cut that had her feeling like a new woman. 
 That's where the similarity ends. 
 Ms. Zomorodi wasn't at a salon. She was one of about half a dozen people who had gathered at a friend's Upper East Side apartment for discounted haircuts by a top-tier stylist who, for this story, Ms. Zomorodi called ''he who shall remain nameless.'' 
 Like other hairdressers in New York and elsewhere, the stylist was working after hours on this Thursday evening, without his employer's knowledge, for $60 a head -- a fraction of the salon price. ''I could never afford to go to the salon that shall also remain unnamed,'' said Ms. Zomorodi, a freelance television reporter from Brooklyn Heights.
 Welcome to the stealth world of the underground hair party, an exclusive girls' night that combines the pursuit of beauty with the irresistible appeal of an insider bargain. Often, private haircutting parties are born when a salon client approaches her stylist with the whispered promise of a festive atmosphere, a guaranteed number of guests and cash under the table in return for reduced rates. 
 Not surprisingly, salons frown on the practice, which is why stylists who work this way usually insist on anonymity to protect their day jobs. ''People will call it black market haircutting sometimes,'' said the stylist who coiffed Ms. Zomorodi and her friends. 
 Certainly, hair parties have been going on for years; but now salons have a faltering economy to contend with. Although salon owners can't measure precisely how much their businesses are hurt by off-the-books cutting, traffic is slowing at high-end hair palaces in Midtown and on the Upper East Side, insiders say, as women wait longer between cuts and stoop to coloring their own hair. Over all, the estimated $46 billion hair and nail salon industry in the United States is down 2 percent from 2007 -- a decline expected to continue next year, according to IBISWorld, an industry research firm in Los Angeles.
 Some stylists report an uptick in people asking for under-the-table deals. ''I had someone call me last week,'' Ted Gibson, who charges $950 a cut, said recently. The potential customer was a guest at the Ritz-Carlton and wanted Mr. Gibson, who boasts a celebrity clientele and owns Ted Gibson Salon in Manhattan, to cut his girlfriend's hair. ''He was trying to negotiate for me to come and do it for $650. I was like, 'No, I charge double if I go out,' '' Mr. Gibson said. ''Needless to say, they did not book me.'' 
 Traditionally, when a client comes to a salon or books an off-site service through the salon's front desk, owners like Mr. Gibson take the fee, then pass on a commission to the hairdresser who performed the service. An employee's take can be as low as 30 to 40 percent, depending on seniority. Employers say the balance pays for everything from marketing and training (most salons prefer to hire inexperienced stylists and inculcate them into the salon way), to support staff, to customer-friendly amenities like cappuccino and hand massages.
 Salon owners tolerate some staff moonlighting. Ouidad, a curly-hair specialist with outposts in New York and Santa Monica, Calif., who goes by one name, said she lets her stylists work on their own time at special events like weddings. Mr. Gibson, too, takes a somewhat benign attitude toward stylists working one-off jobs, as does Julien Farel, who owns an eponymous salon on Madison Avenue.
 But owners agree there is a line employees may not cross. ''As long as they don't try to get the client who is here and say, 'I can come to your house and do it for half' -- that would bother me,'' Mr. Farel said. He has fired two stylists who broke the rules and deducted the money due him from their final paychecks, he said.
 Yet, Mr. Farel admits to moonlighting himself as an apprentice at Jacques Dessange in the 1990s. There, an employee moving to Europe bequeathed him a list of under-the-table customers. ''I was young and hungry,'' he said. He began working parties at $30 a haircut, $50 off the salon price. Soon he was busy after hours every night until midnight, working on groups of up to 15 people. He eventually stopped; he was exhausted and realized he was undermining his career.
 ''You damage yourself, because clients know you will bargain,'' said Mr. Farel, whose clients now include Ivanka Trump and Kate Moss.
 Hair cutters who trim clients' hair in private apartments may be in violation of state statutes, according to the New York State Department of State, which licenses hair stylists. Stylists who work out of reputable salons are likely properly licensed. But if they're working without their salon's blessing, they may not carry the insurance the law requires.
 The stylist at the Upper East Side party spoke loyally of his employer. He said he had never poached a client and kept his two sets of customers ''very, very separate.'' The after-hours work isn't about making extra money, he said, but ''really a way to kind of give back to the people who couldn't afford taking that next step financially'' of going to his high-priced salon. 
 Women are most likely to find a moonlighting hairdresser by being invited to join an existing party. Sometimes one party regular will spin off another group and seek new clients for the under-the-table stylist. The alternative -- propositioning a stylist at a salon -- takes finesse. A hopeful should already have a relationship with her haircutter and should broach the topic casually and discreetly, say those who have had done it successfully. Hounding and nickel-and-diming are deal-breakers. 
 Pasquale Caselle of Miami, who does housecalls exclusively, said, ''I get the feeling right away'' when he doesn't want to work with someone. ''If she approaches me too aggressively and says, 'I go through hairstylists every month, and when you do my hair you have to make sure you get this right, and you should overcharge my friend because she's so rich,' I tell my agent who books me I'm too busy.'' 
 Mr. Caselle can afford to say no. Last week, he returned from 10 days in the Cayman Islands, where he'd booked six gatherings, including a makeover party for a group of wealthy wives who hired a photographer to capture the results for their husbands.
 Most clients view hair parties as celebratory occasions. In Westchester County, N.Y., last month, at the home of Maria Rosselli, she and four guests drank wine and tucked into mini-samosas with mango chutney, a fresh vegetable platter with caramelized curry dip and an array of cheeses. Candles flickered and music played. 
 ''You make a night out of it,'' said Reem Ibrahim, a stay-at-home mother from Putnam Valley, N.Y., who was there with her daughter and sisters. 
 Meanwhile, in the Rossellis' garage, Tara Colavecchio, a cheerful alumna of Frederic Fekkai in New York City who is no longer affiliated with a salon, was using a spray bottle to wet down a guest's curls. Her scissors and tools lay on a makeshift table; mountain bikes and a ladder hung from the ceiling above. Though the surroundings were unglamorous, and the $125-a-head price wasn't cheap, ''there's no tip, there's no assistant and no parking prices,'' Ms. Colavecchio pointed out.
 At many such gatherings, there is also no drying or styling, and guests pitch in sweeping hair from the floor. Pets, children and husbands are also often underfoot. 
 But at the Upper East Side party Ms. Zomorodi attended, the stylist ''who shall remain nameless'' worked intently, deftly shaping another guest's blond bob, with little small-talk. His goal: To finish in time for the night's next appointment. 
 ''I have seven more groups tonight,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
SALON OPTIONAL: Tara Colavecchio, top, cuts Maria Rosselli's hair at a party in Ms. Rosselli's garage. Manoush Zomorodi, inset, is a regular at hair parties in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 INSET, DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAIR STYLING SERVICES (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); NAIL SALONS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



377 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: 7 Years and $161 Million, And They're Not Done Yet

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER; Jack Curry and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
The standings change and so does the economy, inside and outside the sports world. But the character of baseball's signature franchise never does. The Yankees, who missed the playoffs this season, still expect to win the World Series and are still spending big to try.
 The Yankees jolted Major League Baseball on Wednesday as they neared completion of a record seven-year, $161 million deal with the ace left-hander C. C. Sabathia. They have also told A. J. Burnett that they would offer him a guaranteed five-year contract, perhaps for $16 million a season. As some teams scale back, fearing a sharp drop in revenue from sponsorships and ticket sales, the Yankees are the most aggressive shoppers at baseball's winter meetings.
 ''That's them, that's the Yankees, that's how we look at it,'' said Dan O'Dowd, the general manager of the Colorado Rockies. ''They operate in a world by themselves, and we understand that. It doesn't really affect the market because it's them.'' 
 Sabathia will front a 2009 rotation that also includes Chien-Ming Wang and Joba Chamberlain. But the Yankees are also eager to sign two more starting pitchers from a group comprising Burnett, Derek Lowe, Andy Pettitte and Ben Sheets. They could move quickly on Sheets, if his medical records come back clean. And if Burnett and Sheets join Sabathia as Yankees, the team would pull its one-year, $10 million offer to Pettitte.
 Several factors allow the Yankees to keep spending amid the crumbling economy. They are moving to a new Yankee Stadium in April, operate their own cable network (YES) and have shed more than $80 million with the expired contracts of Jason Giambi, Bobby Abreu, Mike Mussina and others. The Yankees' payroll exceeded $209 million last season, and while it will probably be lower this year, it will still be the highest in the majors by a substantial amount.
 ''We're having a lot of money come off our payroll, and we're going to be aggressive on players we think could be terrific Yankees and be key components for us for 2009 and beyond,'' General Manager Brian Cashman said. ''It's as simple as that.''
 The Yankees must complete the details of Sabathia's deal, like how much he will make each season, and Sabathia -- who is 6 feet 7 inches and 311 pounds -- must pass a physical. The deal, which includes an opt-out clause after three seasons, would push Sabathia past Johan Santana for the largest guaranteed contract ever given to a pitcher.
 The Mets gave Santana a six-year, $137.5 million deal in February, after the Yankees passed on a chance to acquire him from the Minnesota Twins. They did not want to give up a package of prospects in addition to arranging a lavish contract, and resisted a Sabathia trade this summer for the same reason.
 Milwaukee acquired Sabathia from the Cleveland Indians instead, and he went 11-2 with a 1.65 earned run average down the stretch. That performance persuaded the Yankees that Sabathia must be the centerpiece of their off-season plans.
 With Sabathia costing only dollars now -- and a compensatory draft choice -- the Yankees pounced. They offered six years and $140 million on Nov. 14, the first day they were allowed to negotiate, trying to overwhelm Sabathia, a California native who wanted to pitch in his home state. Though he also met with the Boston Red Sox, Sabathia had only one other offer, from the Brewers for five years and $100 million, and none of the five teams in California made a serious pitch.
 Cashman met with Sabathia here on Sunday and Monday, telling Sabathia's agents that he would welcome the chance to visit Sabathia's home in Vallejo, Calif. The agent Greg Genske called Tuesday and invited Cashman, who flew to Oakland with a second Sabathia agent, Brian Peters. ''When the opportunity was given,'' Cashman said, ''I knew that's a flight I had to take.''
 Cashman met Sabathia and his wife, Amber, at their home, telling him he recognized the house from an episode of ''MTV Cribs.'' They spoke for two hours in Sabathia's living room -- with Sabathia's children toddling in and out -- before Cashman raised the offer $20 million more in a conversation with Peters.
 The Brewers, meanwhile, had been considering adding a sixth year to their offer in an effort to keep the player who led them to their first playoff appearance in 26 seasons. But at 7:30 a.m. on Wednesday, Genske called Brewers General Manager Doug Melvin and told him Sabathia would not return to Milwaukee.
 ''I guess the Yankees had to pay a surcharge for Sabathia playing in New York,'' Melvin told two reporters, jokingly. ''I was down at the tables last night trying to win enough money to get us back in the game. I congratulate Brian. He got himself a great pitcher.''
 The Yankees tried hard to convince Sabathia that he can thrive in New York. At the Sunday meeting, Cashman and Manager Joe Girardi took along the Hall of Famer Reggie Jackson, who conquered New York in the 1970s after starring in Oakland. Shortstop Derek Jeter, the team captain, called Sabathia last month.
 Jeter, who was here for a news conference about the World Baseball Classic, hinted that Sabathia had asked about places to live outside Manhattan. ''There's a lot of different places you can live,'' Jeter said. ''You don't have to live in the city.''
 Left fielder Johnny Damon had dinner with Sabathia early this season in Cleveland, and Damon said their wives have kept in touch. Sabathia was 6-8 for the Indians last season before his trade to Milwaukee on July 7, and Damon sensed he was pressing.
 ''I think the first half of the season, he was thinking, 'Oh, I'm a free agent, but I love it in Cleveland,''' Damon said in a telephone interview. ''And then when he got traded, he was a man on a mission. He started to understand the business side of the game, and this is where it got him.''
 The Yankees badly needed an ace last season, especially after their best starter, Wang, injured his foot in June and did not pitch again. As their own playoff hopes faded, the players noticed Sabathia's work in the Brewers' frantic pennant race.
 Sabathia made his final three starts on short rest, allowing two runs in 21 2/3 innings. He worked a complete game on the final day to clinch a wild-card berth.
 ''Just watching Milwaukee toward the end of the year -- they were in the playoffs, they were out of the playoffs -- and he was like, 'Hey, I've only been here half the year, but I'm ready to be a leader, give me the ball on three days' rest,' '' Yankees reliever Brian Bruney said in a telephone interview.
 ''You could tell he was selfless, you could tell he cares about winning. I'm looking forward to coming in after him if he needs it -- but I reckon that's not going to happen a lot. Any time you have a horse like C. C. going seven, eight or nine innings, that's a day for the bullpen to regroup.''
 Yankees relievers logged 543 1/3 innings last season, the second highest workload of any American League bullpen, yet managed a solid 3.78 E.R.A.
 Sabathia led the majors in innings pitched in each of the last two seasons while going 36-17. Since his debut at age 20 in 2001, only one pitcher in the majors -- Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White Sox -- has won more games and pitched more innings.
 ''He's a workhorse,'' Damon said. ''He's a guy who can dominate for long periods of time. That's the first step. Adding C. C. makes us a serious contender again, and we'll see what other things we can do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: C. C. Sabathia, who is 6 feet 7 inches and 311 pounds, led the major leagues in innings pitched in each of the last two seasons while going 36-17.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Left, Sabathia after Cleveland clinched the American League Central division in 2007, and after Milwaukee captured the National League wild card last season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, DAVID MAXWELL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: A Mound of Millions: C.C. Sabathia will have the biggest contract ever awarded to a major league pitcher. All figures in millions of dollars, duration of contract in parentheses.
Paycheck to Paycheck: Using Sabathia's average statistics from his last five seasons, here are a few ways one could break down his $23 million average yearly salary:
 Buying a Runner-Up: Since 2000, their last World Series championship, the Yankees have tried to improve their roster through free agency, with mixed results. All transactions were made in December, except for Roger Clemens. (pg. B15) Charts detail various player salaries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (71%); TICKET SALES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); COLORADO ROCKIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



378 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Forecaster Says Ford And G.M. Can Survive

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors and Ford have viable reorganization plans in place, provided Congress authorizes billions of dollars in loans to help them survive the severe economic downturn, but Chrysler's demise is all but inevitable regardless of whether it receives government aid, a forecasting firm said Wednesday. 
 Chrysler, which this month warned that it could soon run out of money without a $7 billion loan, ''doesn't really have the scale, at least in most vehicle lines, that is really required to survive in this market,'' said Michael Robinet, the vice president for global forecasting for the firm, CSM Worldwide.
 Mr. Robinet said that Chrysler, the smallest of the three Detroit automakers, had several unique and therefore valuable platforms, including its minivans and some Jeep models, but that sales of most vehicles were too low. The company, which cut a quarter of its white-collar work force last month through a buyout and an early retirement program, no longer has the resources to be competitive, he said.
 He predicted a ''controlled wind-down'' in Chrysler's operations over the next several years.
 The outlook is better for G.M., which has requested $18 billion in loans, and Ford, which says it is healthy enough to survive without help unless the economy worsens or a rival's failure disrupts the availability of parts. But they and foreign-based manufacturers like Toyota and Honda still face more months of grim sales as a result of weak consumer confidence and tight credit.
 CSM estimates that automakers will sell 11.5 million vehicles in the United States next year, well below even this year's dismal sales. Through November, the industry had sold about 12.3 million cars and trucks. In 2007, automakers sold more than 16 million vehicles.
 ''We haven't seen those numbers for the better part of four decades,'' Mr. Robinet said.
 Sales are falling globally as well, and CSM is projecting a 10 percent decline in 2009 from this year. But even in these gloomy times, CSM says G.M. and Ford have identified reasonable paths toward returning to profitability, contrary to assertions by some members of Congress.
 ''If they do get the bridge loans, we think that maybe with the exception of Chrysler, we think that their plan is viable,'' Craig Cather, the founder and chief executive of CSM, told members of the Automotive Press Association.
 CSM provides automotive consulting services and industry forecasts to 85 percent of the world's automakers and suppliers. The best case for Chrysler, Mr. Cather said, would be a merger with a foreign automaker, perhaps a Chinese manufacturer, but the most likely outcome would be to sell it off in parts. 
 He said that Chrysler's former owner, Daimler, ''starved Chrysler of the investments they needed to make'' and that the ''drastic actions'' taken by its current owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, were not enough to save it.
 Chrysler, in a statement late Wednesday, said that it would not comment on speculation about its future and that it was focused on its request for federal aid and its turnaround plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (68%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



379 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: China Surprised by Abrupt Drop In Exports and Foreign Investment

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS and DAVID BARBOZA; Andrew Jacobs reported from Beijing and David Barboza from Shanghai.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Chinese exports registered their largest drop in nearly a decade last month, suggesting that the global recession could be far worse than many economists had previously predicted. 
 According to statistics released by the Chinese government Wednesday, exports fell 2.2 percent from November 2007 to November 2008 -- the largest year-over-year monthly decline since April 1999.
 Even at a time of increasingly dour economic news, the Chinese trade numbers stunned many economists. They struck an ominous note for China, where labor unrest has increased markedly as the economy has slowed in the last month. 
 Many analysts had anticipated that the monthly trade figures would show China's export machine slowing along with the global economy, but few had expected it to slip into reverse. In October, exports surged 19.2 percent year-over-year. 
 ''We were expecting a slowdown, but the magnitude is a bit shocking,'' said Wang Tao, an analyst at UBS Securities.
 Most worrisome, China's economic dynamism of the last 20 years has been powered by the twin engines of exports and foreign investment. But in other sobering news, the government said that direct foreign investment fell 36.5 percent from a year earlier in November. 
 In recent months, evaporating export demand had already forced thousands of factories to close in the Pearl River Delta of Southern China. Tens of thousands of jobs have disappeared, leading to protests by unemployed workers demanding back pay.
 Late last month, President Hu Jintao warned that the global financial crisis was threatening to undermine three decades of head-spinning expansion. ''China is under growing tension from its large population, limited resources and environmental problems, and needs faster reform of its economic growth pattern to achieve sustainable development,'' he said in a speech published in the Communist Party newspaper, People's Daily.
 Analysts say the sharp export slowdown could make it more difficult for Beijing to stimulate the economy, and could lead to the closure of more factories in coastal areas. 
 China's slowing exports will also be another sharp blow to global growth. Together the trade figures strongly suggest that China will not be a savior to the global economy, taking up the slack from the slumping United States, Europe and Japan, as some had hoped. Indeed, when combined with further signs of a slowing economy in Japan, the picture of Asia, once the fastest-growing continent, becomes one of spreading economic gloom.
 Slowing exports will put added pressure on the Chinese government. Already the stock market and real estate markets have plummeted, industrial production is in decline and thousands of factories are being closed.
 Just last month, officials in Beijing announced a $586 billion stimulus package. In recent weeks, the government has also slashed interest rates, cut taxes on stock trades and announced other measures aimed at lifting domestic consumption, in the hopes that it will replace falling exports.
 Imports to China also plunged sharply last month, falling 17.9 percent and widening China's trade surplus to a record $40 billion, from $35.2 billion in October.
 After the trade figures were released, China National Radio reported that the government was vowing to expand spending and cut taxes further next year in an effort to spur job creation and bolster agriculture, social security, education and small and medium-size enterprises. 
 Beijing will also seek to ensure ''healthy and stable'' growth of the nation's property markets, which have slowed greatly in recent months.
 But with leaks springing up all over China's economy, it is unclear where the government can hold back economic, and potentially political, upheaval.
 The government's decision in recent weeks to allow the Chinese currency, the yuan, to fall against the dollar after a long period of appreciation seems to be a signal that the government is moving to shore up its exporters, by making their goods cheaper and, therefore, more competitive. 
 That -- as well as China's increasing trade imbalance -- could signal greater tension ahead with the United States. In the one piece of seemingly positive news, China's producer price index, a measure of inflation at the factory level, fell to its lowest rate in two years, according to the government. That figure -- 2 percent in November -- rose 6.6 percent in October. In August, when that number hit 10.1 percent, the government was focused on stemming the threat of inflation and moderating China's breakneck growth.
 In just four months, the situation has changed startlingly. And lower imports suggest falling demand and greater consumer and business fear.
 Exports, meanwhile, are a mainstay of China's economy; by one measure they make up 40 percent of gross domestic product. While some experts dispute that figure and question other official economic statistics from Beijing, analysts say the slumping demand for Chinese goods is likely to pull down the nation's growth rate, which was 9 percent in the third quarter, close to or even below the 7 percent figure that many Chinese economists contend is the minimum for maintaining social stability.
 Qu Hongbin, the chief China economist at HSBC, said he expected things to get worse in the coming months as the global recession further saps the demand for Chinese goods. He said exports could fall as much as 19 percent in the first quarter of 2009.
 ''Combined with cooling property markets, this points to the rising risk of a hard landing,'' he said in a statement. ''It's official: as the world's workshop, China will suffer as the global downturn deepens.''
 Since it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, China's exports have quadrupled, helping transform it into the world's fourth largest economy.
 In a survey of more than a dozen analysts last month, no one predicted that imports would decline. The drop in exports stretched across all major trade commodities with steel leading the downward spiral.
 Exports to all of China's trading partners suffered, with those to the United States down 6.1 percent. In October, they were up 12.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chinese exports fell 2.2 percent last month. Above, a seller in a Nanjing market.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN YONG/REUTERS)
 Imports to China fell 17.9 percent in November, widening its trade surplus to a record $40 billion, up from $35.2 billion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS)(pg. B6) CHART: Export Engine Stalls: China's exports fell in November after years of strong growth.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details CHINA'S EXPORTS CHANGE VS. PERIOD A YEAR EARLIER.(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); CLOSINGS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



380 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: NPR Points To Shortfall In Cutting 64 Positions

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
National Public Radio, citing an unexpected revenue shortfall, said Wednesday that it would cut 64 jobs, or about 7 percent of its work force of 889, and would cancel two weekday programs, ''Day to Day'' and ''News & Notes.'' 
 The cutbacks, which come even as NPR is reaching what it said is a near-record audience of 26.4 million listeners a week, include 22 employees at the canceled programs, which will end March 20; six reporters and correspondents elsewhere; and one digital media position. 
 In addition to the job cuts, 21 open positions will not be filled. Expenses will be reduced in reporting, production, station services, communications, administration and travel, and NPR will also draw on its operating reserves to make up for what is expected to be a $23 million revenue shortfall, leaving it with projected revenue of $145 million in the fiscal year ending next September. 
 NPR was projecting a $2 million deficit in July when the budget was approved, and, citing the economic slowdown, it canceled the fledgling morning program ''The Bryant Park Project.'' Since then, as the economy worsened, corporate sponsorships in particular have dropped precipitously, to a projected $33 million for the year instead of the $47 million budgeted, NPR executives said.
 Dennis L. Haarsager, NPR's interim president and chief executive, said in an interview: ''We hope that's the basement, and we hope to do a little better than that. But we have to plan for that.'' 
 The projected revenue from grants and other contributions was reduced by $4 million for the year, to an expected $15 million, as foundations and wealthy individuals faced lower investment earnings, said Dana Davis Rehm, NPR's senior vice president for strategy and partnerships.
 Legal restrictions limit NPR in tapping an endowment created after the McDonald's heir Joan B. Kroc donated $230 million in 2003, Mr. Haarsager added. 
 NPR's cutbacks will hit particularly hard at studios in Culver City, Calif., known as NPR West, where the two canceled programs originate. Mr. Haarsager said NPR West would remain the base for the co-anchor of ''Morning Edition,'' Renee Montagne, and about 30 other employees.
 The two canceled shows were chosen because their disappearance ''seemed to have the least impact on our audience,'' Mr. Haarsager said, and would allow NPR to avoid making ''a thousand cuts in everything.'' 
 The general interest ''Day to Day'' has nearly two million weekly listeners, a fraction of the nearly 13 million weekly listeners for ''Morning Edition.'' ''News & Notes'' looks at current affairs from an African-American perspective. Mr. Haarsager said ending that program ''is not what I'd like to do,'' but he added that NPR has a much larger African-American audience for ''Morning Edition'' and ''All Things Considered,'' and also serves the audience with ''Tell Me More.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); APPROVALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



381 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 789 words

PERSON: Robert Prosky 

HEADLINE: Robert Prosky, 77, an Actor Of Wide Range and Acumen

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Robert Prosky, a craggy-faced, heavyset character actor who after 23 years in regional theater became a familiar face on Broadway, in movies and on television, notably as a gruff desk sergeant in the later years of ''Hill Street Blues,'' died on Monday in Washington. He was 77.
 The cause was complications of heart surgery, his son John said. 
 Mr. Prosky -- who was nominated for two Tony awards for his work on Broadway and appeared in popular movies like ''The Natural'' (1984), ''Mrs. Doubtfire'' (1993) and ''Broadcast News'' (1987) -- epitomized the versatility of a consummate character actor; within one year he played the head the C.I.A. and the K.G.B. 
 Mr. Prosky's immediate success in 1984 on ''Hill Street Blues'' as the replacement for the beloved desk sergeant played by Michael Conrad, who had died, reflected his acting acumen. Mr. Prosky created a wholly new character, one who combined aggressiveness, defensiveness and a penchant for ridiculous accidents. This scrupulously honed persona became synonymous with the new sergeant's signature line: ''Let's do it to them before they do it to us.''
 The Sunday Mail, a London newspaper, said that Mr. Prosky's acting gave the transition ''the smoothness of a first-class magic act.''
 Mr. Prosky, who appeared in 220 plays, 38 movies and hundreds of television shows, developed his craft at the Arena Stage in Washington, a regional theater admired for range and ambition. His two exquisite portrayals of Willy Loman in ''Death of a Salesman'' there are still talked about. In 1980 Mel Gussow wrote in The New York Times that Mr. Prosky represented ''a certification of the effectiveness of the American regional theater movement.'' 
 He loved the live stage, both its diversity of roles and its exhilarating urgency. In an interview with The Washingtonian in 1993, he said, ''That uncertainty, that living in the moment is the essence of the actor's craft.''
 In 1982 he turned down the role of Coach in ''Cheers'' -- and a big pile of money -- because he could not stand the thought of playing the same role for the seven years specified in the contract. (Nicholas Colasanto got the part.)
 Mr. Prosky appeared in a half-dozen Broadway plays and was nominated for Tony awards for playing a fast-talking salesman in ''Glengarry Glen Ross'' in 1984-85 and a Soviet disarmament negotiator in ''A Walk in the Woods'' in 1988.
 His gift for portraying stark emotion was suggested in Frank Rich's review of ''Glengarry'' in The Times: ''There's no color in the salesman's pasty, dumbstruck face -- just the abject terror of a life in which all words are finally nothing because it's only money that really talks.'' 
 This portrayal reflected Mr. Prosky's meticulous preparation. He and other stars interviewed a range of salespeople from Fuller Brush salesladies to slick operators peddling tax shelters
 Robert Joseph Prosky was born as the only son of a grocer on Dec. 13, 1930, in what he termed a ''Polish ghetto'' in Philadelphia. He acted in high school, but earned a degree in economics from Temple University. He joined the Air Force, but got a hardship discharge to help with the family store when his father died suddenly.
 While working at the store, he participated in amateur theater and won a talent contest. That led to a two-year course at the American Theater Wing in New York. He joined the Arena Theater and thereafter worked only as an actor.
 At 49 he broke into movies when the director Michael Mann cast him in his film ''Thief'' (1981). In an interview with The Washington Post in 1992, Mr. Prosky said, ''At an age when most men's options are closing, mine were opening.''
 Other movies in which he appeared included ''Christine'' (1983); ''Things Change'' (1988); ''Rudy'' (1993); ''Hoffa'' (1992); and ''Dead Man Walking'' (1995). Part of his vast television work was playing Kirstie Alley's father both in an episode of ''Cheers'' and in the series ''Veronica's Closet.''
 In recent years Mr. Prosky toured with two of his sons, John and Andrew, both actors, in ''The Price,'' an Arthur Miller play. This year the three appeared in a presentation of the play in Washington.
 Mr. Prosky is also survived by his wife, the former Ida Hove, an anthropologist; another son, Stefan, a microbiologist; and three grandchildren.
 Mr. Prosky's skills as an actor were as finely turned as the handcrafted wooden pens he made as a hobby. As a personality, he disappeared in his roles, telling The Washingtonian that people on the street approached him as ''a long-lost cousin or something.''
 ''Sometimes I have to tell them I'm an actor,'' he continued. ''Then I'm suddenly in this ridiculous position, enumerating my credits to a complete stranger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The character actor Robert Prosky as the Maharal in the Manhattan Ensemble Theater's 2002 production of ''The Golem.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON EPSTEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); THEATER (58%); DISARMAMENT (50%)

FRANK RICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Theater

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



382 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Three Start-Ups, a Year Later

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
 THIS has been a gut-wrenching first year in business for three entrepreneurs whose start-ups were profiled in this column last December.
 One has failed. Tina Ericson recently shut down her online T-shirt store, Mamaisms Gear, in Wilmington, N.C., overwhelmed by the strains it was putting on her corporate job. ''It seems like it was only yesterday that we were discussing our plans to make $100,000 in revenue the first year,'' Ms. Ericson said. ''We made some very expensive mistakes.''
 The owner of the second, Caitlin Adler, is still hard at work, even as she notices greater frugality among customers at her Sweet Bites Bakery and Cafe in West Acton, Mass. She has cut payroll costs, expanded her menu and lengthened her hours. ''While I still have big dreams for the company, I am more realistic, and take each day as it comes,'' Ms. Adler said.
 The only one bursting with confidence was Jeff Takle, whose property management software company in Somerville, Mass., was on the verge of collapse six months ago. As he was trying to figure out how to keep it afloat, he was hospitalized for a viral infection he contracted on a business trip to India, and used the time to rethink his strategy. 
 ''I came out a supercharged new man,'' said Mr. Takle, the founder of RentingYourHome.com, which aims at small landlords with one to five properties. 
 Last December, when this column first turned the spotlight on these three start-ups, even the doomsayers had no idea how fast the economy would spiral down.
 Certainly, Ms. Ericson did not. She predicted sales in 2008 of $100,000 at Mamaisms Gear, which intended to offer a broad line of T-shirts and other products with ''Mama Says'' slogans like ''Quit Whining.'' She also talked about creating a Web site for women and starting a consulting company for the financial services industry. 
 Ms. Adler was upbeat, too. She fretted about unexpectedly high payroll costs and other setbacks, but figured weekly sales would climb from $7,000 to $12,000 or more by mid-2008.
 Nor did Mr. Takle express worries. He said his Web-based software would help small landlords manage their rental properties more efficiently, and projected revenue of $10 million or more within five years.
 But by June, with economic growth slowing, all three business owners were scaling back their ambitions. Ms. Ericson had abandoned her plans to create an Internet community for women and to start a consulting firm to concentrate on marketing her T-shirts to boutiques. Ms. Adler had nudged weekly revenue up to $8,000, from $7,000, far short of her goal. And Mr. Takle lamented that his venture was dangerously low on funds.
 Now, though, Mr. Takle is enthusiastic again. Even the recession is working in his favor, he said, by turning homeowners reluctant to sell in a bear market into ''accidental'' landlords.
 After recovering from his illness, Mr. Takle, 34, switched his focus from searching for new customers to improving his Web site's content. He formed a partnership with a Boston Web design firm, paying in equity, and he hired outside companies to do his computer coding. 
 He is now offering services -- like rent collection by credit card, access to a list of a million maintenance providers and the placement of landlords' advertisements on the top 23 rental Web sites in the United States -- that he says his rivals cannot match.
 While his rivals charge $1 to $5 per property per month, he says, he charges $20 to $50. As a result of his site's upgrade, he says, the conversion rate of visitors into customers has increased to 8 percent, from 1 percent. 
 RentingYourHome.com now has nearly 1,000 customers, and Mr. Takle says revenue in the second half of this year should approach or exceed $120,000, from $30,000 in the first half. He says he believes he is on track for $500,000 in the first half of 2009.
 Mr. Takle's tale of reinvention failed to sway Janet Portman, a lawyer and an expert in landlord-tenant law at Nolo, a provider of legal information for consumers and small businesses. ''He promises too much, and he can't possibly deliver what he says he will,'' she said. The special features he boasts of do not really add much value to his software program, she said. But her main criticism was that his product would never be able to provide what landlords needed most: personal contact with tenants and their previous landlords as well as the people they list as references. 
 Ms. Adler, meantime, says she believes the worst is behind her. Sales at Sweet Bites dipped to $6,000 a week in the early summer, but are back up to $8,000. ''We sell the basics, coffee, chocolate and food, which everyone needs,'' she says. 
 Because Ms. Adler, 26, has cut costs and does not expect more major expenses after installing a $10,000 walk-in refrigerator, she says she is paying herself a partial salary and hopes that sometime next year she can raise that to a full salary and start paying back her parents' loans.
 She has lost a bit of her bravado. A year ago, she was not sure she would be willing to make her father an equal partner. Today, she says, she would acquiesce if he asked for a 95 percent ownership stake.
 Ever the optimist, though, she sees opportunities. She says she has her eye on another cafe in her area, and even speculates about franchising a streamlined version of Sweet Bites. ''I'm in this for the long haul,'' she said.
 John Foley, a restaurant consultant in Sonoma, Calif., congratulated Ms. Adler for having the perseverance it takes to survive in the restaurant business for more than a year. ''Most people would have thrown in the towel by now,'' he said.
 Mr. Foley, who once owned a group of eight restaurants, said her revenue figures were impressive. Even so, he predicted, she will be stuck in a rut of long hours and endless frustration unless she opens a second location, ''immediately, if possible.'' With bargain deals abounding in a sinking economy, now is the time to strike, he said. ''After that, if she got seriously into catering, she might be able to increase her revenues fairly quickly to $1 million, enough to give her flexibility for further expansion,'' he said.
 As for Ms. Ericson, whose venture failed, she fell victim to a classic error of fledgling entrepreneurs, letting her enthusiasm overcome her judgment, according to Neal Thornberry, associate professor of business management at Babson College in Massachusetts. Still, he said, ''I look at her experience as tuition,'' learning hard business lessons first-hand rather than reading about them in a business course.
 Ms. Ericson, 41, acknowledges that she had an inadequate grasp of the retail market, and realizes her start-up was too much of a distraction from her job with a financial publisher. Nevertheless, she holds out the slim possibility of resuscitating her venture.
 ''We have decided to put Mamaisms Gear to bed,'' she said, ''perhaps to be awakened another day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Takle, right, of Rentingyourhome.com, with Richard Banfield of Fresh Tilled Soil, an investor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); RETAIL BAKERIES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%)

COMPANY: ADLER REAL ESTATE AG (84%)

TICKER: ADL (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (84%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



383 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: The Connections Between Meat and Climate Change

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''From Hoof to Dinner Table, a New Bid to Cut Emissions'' (front page, Dec. 4):
 There is a solution to at least some of the beef industry's sustainability woes, and that is to raise cows in a pasture-based system. 
 Many of the beef industry's problems result from feedlots that consume tremendous amounts of grain and that pour out huge sloughs of waste. Finishing the cattle on grass is a far ''greener'' method. 
 Of course, the meat is more expensive since it takes lots of real estate to freely graze a herd, and it's tougher than typical supermarket fare (Americans are used to a style of marbling that's caused by grain diets and flabby cattle, whereas grass-fed cows are trim from their daily ambles). But the leaner meat from grass-fed animals actually tastes richer and more savory.
 The other problem with meat consumption is proportion. Consumers can help the beef industry save itself by both buying less and choosing grass-fed.
 Andrew Rimas Evan D. G. Fraser Jamaica Plain, Mass., Dec.
 5, 2008
 The writers are the authors of ''Beef: The Untold Story of How Milk, Meat, and Muscle Shaped the World.''
 To the Editor:
 Missing from your article was mention of deleterious environmental and health effects resulting from intensive animal farming in addition to global warming. An approach to address all of these, instead of just developing technology to control methane emissions, is vital.
 Specifically, the increasing meat-consumption trend could be reversed if consumers paid the true price for meat. For this to happen, subsidies that keep animal feed artificially low, and encourage producers to raise as many animals as possible, should end. 
 In addition, allowing animal waste to be spread on fields at rates higher than can be absorbed, resulting in nutrient runoff and oceanic dead zones, needs to be stopped. 
 If these policies were adopted, small-scale animal agriculture would be a more economical model, and people would eat less meat. This would result in improved human health, decreased environmental destruction and better animal welfare.
 Jillian Fry Baltimore, Dec.
 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Kudos to The New York Times for covering the much-neglected connections between meat and climate change. As you note, the lack of media coverage of the livestock sector's contribution to climate change is one reason it has escaped large-scale public outrage. 
 At the yearly Meat Marketing conference this summer in Nashville, the industry representatives seemed most worried about negative press concerning animal welfare; the words ''global warming'' were never even uttered. Now, with mounting public awareness, the meat industry may soon realize that investment in sustainable practices is not just a nice idea. It is essential for the industry's survival.
 With a new administration and agriculture secretary we can also hope that our leaders will also grasp that food and farming policy is climate change policy as well, and will make bold choices to ensure a healthier planet for all of us. 
 Anna Lappe
 Brooklyn, Dec.
 4, 2008
 The writer is a co-founder of the Small Planet Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); BEEF (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); METHANE (78%); WRITERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MEATS (77%); CONSUMPTION (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (68%); ANIMAL WELFARE (66%); TRENDS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



384 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Economy Complicates Labor Dispute

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Ebedet Negron contributed reporting from Adjuntas.

DATELINE: ADJUNTAS, P.R. 

 BODY:
At a squat green factory here in the mountains of central Puerto Rico, workers stitch together camouflage uniforms for American troops. They arrive around sunrise, and the first thing they see is a banner that reads, ''Say no to the union!'' 
 It is the most visible sign of an intensifying conflict over sick days that has set mostly rural Puerto Rican workers against one of the nation's largest manufacturers of military clothing. And in a sign of what may be to come in other depressed areas, both sides seem determined to use the faltering economy to gain leverage. 
 The company, Propper International of St. Charles, Mo., has been making military uniforms for more than 25 years. It employs about 3,000 people at eight factories in Puerto Rico, and Tom Kellim, Propper's chief executive, said in an interview that its pay and benefits were ''equal to or better than the competition.'' 
 Indeed some employees say they feel blessed just to have a job, with Puerto Rico in its third year of recession and unemployment at nearly 12 percent.
 But others -- like Gladys Lopez and Albert Torres here in Adjuntas -- accuse the company of using an oversupply of labor to sidestep a Puerto Rican law (known as Law 180) that grants full-time employees 12 paid sick days and 15 days of vacation per year. Ten years after the law passed, workers say, Propper still does not pay for sick days and allows only about a week of paid vacation.
 In interviews, they described a company where employees were expected to disregard their health to keep sewing. 
 Ms. Lopez said that after she injured her back a few years ago at work, she postponed a doctor's visit to protect her pay and her job. Similarly, Mr. Torres said he had put off an operation for a thyroid problem because he feared the consequences. 
 ''I waited a year before going for surgery,'' he said. ''And when I finally submitted the paperwork to my superiors, two days later they gave me a memo stating I had been laid off.''
 Mr. Torres said his health seemed to be the only cause for termination. ''When I had my surgery and went back,'' he said, ''they rehired me.''
 Workers from other Propper factories also said they had felt pressured by the lack of paid sick days and their financial needs to take greater risks with their health.
 Maritza Vazquez, a worker at the Propper factory in Las Marias, in southeast Puerto Rico, said that after surgery for breast cancer a few months ago, she cut her recovery short by three weeks to get back to work. 
 ''They made me sign a release at the doctor's office in case something happened to me,'' Ms. Vazquez said. ''It took longer for my scars to heal, but they eventually did -- and at least I didn't lose my job.''
 Mr. Kellim, in a brief telephone interview, did not deny that Propper failed to grant its workers the sick days allotted by Law 180. He said a longstanding ''mandatory decree'' from the Puerto Rican government exempted the apparel industry from certain labor provisions. 
 But according to legal experts, such a decree may apply, if at all, only to workers hired before Aug. 1, 1995. For more recent hires, like Ms. Vazquez, who started working at Propper in 1999, Law 180 superseded the earlier agreements, said Manuel Rodriguez Banchs, a law professor at the University of Puerto Rico. 
 ''What the law did was make uniform a set of minimum requirements for all those companies that were subject to several different decrees,'' Professor Rodriguez Banchs said. 
 Puerto Rico's Department of Labor, which is responsible for enforcing the law, did not respond to calls seeking comment. 
 Diana Stewart, a spokeswoman at the Defense Logistics Agency -- an arm of the Department of Defense, which ordered $99 million in products from Propper for fiscal 2008 -- said her office would contact labor officials to learn more about the employees' accusations. 
 Some of the workers said they had already filed formal complaints. They also turned this year to Unite Here, the union that represents more than 450,000 hotel, restaurant, apparel and laundry workers. 
 Liz Gres, a Unite Here organizing director in San Juan, said Propper was the largest of at least five military uniform manufacturers in Puerto Rico that do not comply with the law requiring paid sick days. 
 ''They've basically been acting like this new law was never passed, and getting away with it for many, many years,'' Ms. Gres said.
 Unite Here has also accused Propper's management of illegally threatening workers with plant closings or job loss for supporting the union. Last month, after the union filed a complaint with National Labor Relations Board, the company agreed to a settlement in which it promised to inform workers of their legal right to organize. 
 Still, the conflict shows no sign of fading; the antiunion banner in Adjuntas compares organizers to leeches with the line ''pa' fuera el chapacuotas,'' or ''out with the dues suckers.'' 
 And the battle comes at an especially uncertain time. Puerto Rico has also lost 50,000 manufacturing jobs over the last four years, and evidence from independent groups like the Center for a New Economy suggests that high taxes, strict labor laws and government inefficiency are part of the cause.
 Mr. Kellim said making military uniforms these days in Puerto Rico ''is a very low margin industry.'' 
 But Ms. Gres said Propper was simply exploiting the economic moment. 
 ''They know it's difficult to find jobs,'' she said, ''so people will take whatever they can get.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a labor dispute at a company in Puerto Rico that makes military uniforms misidentified the location of the factory that employs Maritza Vazquez, who said that after surgery she cut her recovery short to get back to work. The factory is in Lajas, not Las Marias. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gladys Lopez and Albert Torres help make uniforms in Puerto Rico for American troops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); SICK LEAVE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (63%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); EXECUTIVES (53%); BREAST CANCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (57%) PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



385 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Foreclosures, F.D.I.C. Chief Draws Fire

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
On the weekend before Thanksgiving, Washington's top financial regulators were gathered on a conference call to discuss the rescue of the banking giant Citigroup when Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, interrupted with a concern.
 Speaking from her home, Mrs. Bair declared that the F.D.I.C. would contribute to a bailout only if Citigroup were forced to participate in a foreclosure prevention program she was championing on Capitol Hill. After a brief discussion, she got her way. 
 That meeting of the minds was one of the rare agreements in an increasingly rancorous debate in Washington over how to help millions of at-risk borrowers stay in their homes as the economy deteriorates. 
 More than any administration official, Mrs. Bair has called publicly for using billions of taxpayer dollars to finance the modification of loans threatened by default. But her advocacy has contributed to a battle that is pitting White House and Treasury officials against the F.D.I.C. and lawmakers in Congress. The discord has influenced programs that have so far proved insufficient to stem a tide of foreclosures that Moody'sEconomy.com expects will affect 10 million homeowners over the next five years. And it is drawing personal conflicts and animosities into the policy-making process. 
 White House and Treasury officials argue that Mrs. Bair's high-profile campaigning is meant to promote herself while making them look heartless. As a result, they have begun excluding Mrs. Bair from some discussions, though she remains active in conversations where the F.D.I.C.'s support is needed, like the Citigroup rescue. 
 A Treasury official involved in the discussions said that while Mrs. Bair was seen as a valuable part of the team, there was a sense of distrust and a concern that she always seemed to be pushing her own agenda.
 Mrs. Bair, for her part, says she has always sought to work constructively with other officials and is one of the few voices within the administration pushing for a comprehensive program to help at-risk borrowers.
 ''I've heard the stories of people who are suffering and can stay in their homes if there is just a small adjustment to their loans,'' said Mrs. Bair, a Republican who was appointed to her post by President Bush two years ago. ''There are some people in the Republican Party who resent the idea of helping others,'' she added. ''But the market is broken right now, and unless we intervene, these people and the economy won't be helped.''
 Yet behind the infighting, there is also the genuine difficulty of making a policy that can quickly aid millions of homeowners at a reasonable cost. Mrs. Bair unveiled a program to help the 65,000 borrowers who are more than two months delinquent on their mortgages at IndyMac, the giant failed bank taken over by her agency this summer. But so far, that program has benefited only 7,200 people. 
 A representative of IndyMac said that many of the overdue loans turned out to be ineligible for the program, and that some borrowers had not yet responded to the bank's modification offers.
 Other efforts have also stumbled. A $300 billion foreclosure prevention program passed by Congress this summer to help up to 400,000 homeowners wound up larded with requirements, like requiring background checks and restricting eligibility for mortgage relief to people at risk of foreclosure as of March 1. 
 As a result, fewer than 200 people have applied for the program since it opened in October, according to officials from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and no loans have been modified. 
 In the meantime, pressure is mounting on homeowners in need of relief. 
 ''We're hurting,'' said Aoah Middleton, 31, who began missing payments on her mortgage in 2006 when her 5-year-old daughter was found to have cancer. She says she knows of people who took out loans they knew they could not afford, and do not deserve help. But she spent a year trying to catch up, and could meet her obligations if her interest rate were reduced. 
 Instead, her home is scheduled to be sold at a foreclosure auction this month. ''We are doing everything we can to be responsible. Banks are getting helped. Rich people are getting helped. Why isn't there anyone to help me?''
 In the running debate, Mrs. Bair was an early proponent of an aggressive and costly program aimed at helping millions of homeowners. 
 Around the time that the F.D.I.C. took over IndyMac, Mrs. Bair began urging Treasury and White House officials to use taxpayer money to encourage other lenders and mortgage servicing companies to modify large numbers of at-risk loans, a plan she expected would help 1.5 million borrowers avoid foreclosure and reduce an oversupply of homes on the market. She estimated the program would cost taxpayers about $24 billion.
 But critics, mainly within the Treasury Department and the White House, estimated the cost at nearly $70 billion. The F.D.I.C., they argued, was underestimating how many people would redefault after their loans were modified. 
 This week, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency reported that more than half of at-risk borrowers whose loan terms were changed this year by banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America, had already redefaulted on their payments. Mrs. Bair said those results most likely reflected sloppy loan modifications. 
 Critics also argue that Mrs. Bair's program, as well as others sought by Congressional Democrats, fail to adequately distinguish between homeowners who are genuinely at risk and those who might skip payments just to qualify for a modification. And they are skeptical of how much impact such plans will have on the national economy. 
 ''Every one of these programs seems like a great idea at first,'' said Tony Fratto, the White House deputy press secretary. ''Our concerns are that many of them pay off people who knowingly made bad decisions and lenders who created the subprime crisis. It's unquestionable that rewarding those people lacks support among the American people.''
 F.D.I.C. officials, in response, said that that those concerns should not outweigh the benefits of a program that would help hurting homeowners and lift the economy. Mrs. Bair has said that data collected by the F.D.I.C. indicates that her plan would work, and that the agency has made the rationale behind its cost estimates publicly available.
 Still, when she failed to draw enthusiasm from the White House or Treasury, Mrs. Bair decided to go public with her idea, prompting quiet attacks from other administration officials. 
 ''Our plan was being leaked and people were taking shots at us,'' she said in the interview, ''so I decided we needed to go public to protect ourselves and to clarify what we were proposing.'' She said the F.D.I.C. has worked constructively with other agencies on numerous issues.
 ''The F.D.I.C. has been working on loan modifications for 20 years,'' she added. ''I'm frustrated that nobody gives us any deference for knowing how this stuff works. And at the end of the day, I'm happy if Treasury just picks a plan and does it. Even if it's not my plan, its better what we're doing right now.''
 Treasury and White House officials said they were reviewing plans, though they declined to discuss specifics, timelines or why they had not proposed a comprehensive alternative to Mrs. Bair's suggestion.
 In the meantime, Democratic lawmakers have latched onto Mrs. Bair's proposal as a political weapon, further muddying the debate. When Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. went to Capitol Hill last month, he was pummeled by Democratic lawmakers asking why he had ignored Mrs. Bair's plan and other proposals. 
 ''Treasury has been disingenuous,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the Senate banking committee. ''A month ago Mr. Paulson gave me an assurance that the funds we allocated would be used for loan modifications. Now all you get is foot-dragging. There has been no real attempt to address this problem, and when they make any movements, it's very sluggish.''
 A Treasury spokeswoman, Michele A. Davis, said that the department was not required to establish a loan modification program. But until Mr. Paulson promises to establish a widespread loan modification program, Congress is unlikely to give him the second half of a $700 billion rescue fund he is seeking to undergird the economy. 
 In the meantime, homeowners are unlikely to see any new policy unveiled soon. 
 ''It's become clear that if you stick your head up, it'll get cut off,'' said one White House official. ''We're done in two months. The next administration can try to find a way out of that maze.''
 That will probably come too late for Ms. Middleton, whose home is scheduled to be sold this month. 
 Despite repeated attempts, she has been unable to work out a modification with the company managing her loan. 
 ''We wanted to own a home to have a place to raise our children,'' she said. ''I work two jobs. My husband works full time. We just wanted to have something to call our own. I don't know what we'll do now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., spoke last week at the Banker of the Year Awards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); THANKSGIVING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



386 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: A First Lady Who Speaks Louder In Private

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
In the six years since she became first lady of Illinois, Patricia Blagojevich, now 43, has not played a highly public role in her husband's administration.
 ''She has kept a very low profile as first lady,'' said Paul Green, a political science professor at Roosevelt University. ''She literally could walk down Michigan Avenue and if she didn't have security, 9 out of 10 people would not know who she was.''
 So the extent of her involvement in the brash telephone conversations that resulted in charges of corruption against her husband, Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich, on Tuesday came as a surprise to many. 
 In the 76-page federal complaint, Ms. Blagojevich appears to be an influential and demanding partner to her husband's schemes to trade the Senate seat vacated by President-elect Barack Obama for money-making or politically aggrandizing opportunities. 
 The complaint also shows her participating in a phone call in which the governor discusses trading his influence over the Senate seat appointment to earn money and find Ms. Blagojevich seats on paid corporate boards. 
 And, in a blast of vulgar language, Ms. Blagojevich eggs on her husband when he reportedly threatens to prevent the Tribune Company from selling the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field unless The Chicago Tribune fired editorial writers who had called for the governor's impeachment. Ms. Blagojevich is quoted in the complaint as saying that the state should ''hold up that [expletive] Cubs [expletive] ... [expletive] them.''
 Federal officials have declined to discuss the role of Ms. Blagojevich in the case. She has not been charged in the case. But officials have suggested that she and others involved in the taped phone calls would be looked at as part of the continuing investigation.
 Ms. Blagojevich has a deep-rooted political pedigree as the daughter of Richard Mell, the longtime Chicago alderman and a leader in Cook County Democratic politics, who is considered to have been instrumental in getting Mr. Blagojevich in politics.
 ''Rod's marriage to her is really what begins his political career,'' said John P. Pelissero, a political science professor at Loyola University. ''It was really through connections with his father-in-law's influence that he got elected.''
 The Web site for the governor's office says that in addition to raising the couple's two daughters, Ms. Blagojevich occupies herself with typical first lady issues: raising awareness on children's health, food allergies and literacy, and starting the State Beautification Initiative, which planted native wildflowers along state roads.
 But in recent years, Ms. Blagojevich, who has a bachelor's degree in economics and a real estate broker's license, has attracted attention through the dealings of her home-based real estate company. Her clients have included people who were awarded state contracts or made political contributions to the governor.
 The Chicago Tribune, in an analysis, reported that her firm, River Realty, had earned more than $700,000 in commissions since her husband began raising money in 2000 for his first run for governor. The Tribune reported that more than three-quarters of those commissions came from ''clients with connections,'' not including commissions she earned from Antoin Rezko, a developer and fund-raiser for the Blagojevich campaign, who was convicted of fraud and bribery this summer. 
 According to news reports over the last year, federal law enforcement officials have been investigating Ms. Blagojevich's real estate dealings. Officials in the federal prosecutor's office would not comment Tuesday on whether Ms. Blagojevich was under investigation for the real estate dealings or anything else. 
 In September, she became development director for the Chicago Christian Industrial League, which helps poor and homeless families. A spokeswoman, Jenny Brandhorst, said Ms. Blagojevich has ''a good knowledge of, obviously, Chicago and the development community. She's done a great job since she's been here.'' 
 Chicago newspapers have reported that tax records show that in 2007, the Blagojevich family's income dropped 17 percent, to $214,580 in combined wages. (He earns $177,412 as governor.) In the transcript of the charges against the governor, finding avenues for his family to get more money is a constant theme.
 If Mr. Blagojevich owes some electoral success to his father-in-law, their relationship frayed over Mr. Blagojevich's 2005 decision to close a landfill owned by a cousin of Mr. Mell's wife, saying that it had environmental problems. Mr. Mell accused the governor of carrying out a vendetta against him and his relatives. Mr. Blagojevich said he had the male ''virility'' to stick with his decision.
 Ms. Blagojevich's sister, Deborah Mell, a gay rights activist, was elected a state representative in Illinois last month. She first indicated that she would run for Representative Rahm Emanuel's Congressional seat when he becomes Mr. Obama's chief of staff, but decided against it. 
 Ms. Mell's spokeswoman, Leah Cunningham Pouw, said her own impression of Ms. Blagojevich was that ''she is extremely dedicated to her kids,'' adding: ''I've seen her laughing and playing with them. She's funny; she's light. When you go in their house, there's pictures of their drawings posted on the stairwell.''
 Asked if she was surprised by the words attributed to Ms. Blagojevich in the transcript, Ms. Pouw said, ''Well, Rich Mell is sort of known for his colorful language.'' 
 Ms. Blagojevich told Chicago Parent magazine last month that she did not want her daughters, Amy, 12, and Annie, 5, to go into politics. 
 ''It's a rough-and-tumble life. Politics in Chicago is like a blood sport,'' she said, adding that in her husband's case, ''I'm looking forward to the day he's not in politics.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricia Blagojevich, the wife of Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, is the daughter of a longtime Chicago alderman and the sister of a recently elected state representative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN KERSEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); BASEBALL (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); FOOD ALLERGIES (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); WRITERS (50%); ALLERGIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



387 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Actors Hesitate on Strike Authorization

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Danny DeVito and Rhea Perlman have beseeched their fellow actors to defeat a strike authorization vote that the Screen Actors Guild is putting forward. So has Richard Masur, a former national president of the union, who most recently appeared on ''Law & Order: Special Victims Unit.''
 Mike Farrell, best known as B. J. Hunnicutt on ''M*A*S*H,'' sent an e-mail message to guild members saying: ''I'm not anti-SAG. But I am anti-idiocy. I'm voting 'no.' '' 
 When union leaders ask for the authority to call a strike, members almost always give it to them. Authorizations are usually so inevitable that guild leaders do not spend much time campaigning for them and they generate little media attention.
 Not this time. SAG leaders find themselves in a heated campaign to convince a wary membership that they need to strike -- with the nation entangled in its worst economic crisis since the Depression -- if movie and television studios do not soon capitulate to contract demands that have stalled negotiations since June. 
 Leaders need 75 percent of voting members to approve the authorization, and would prefer an even wider percentage to strengthen their negotiating position with studios. The union said Wednesday that ballots would be mailed on Jan. 2 and be tabulated by Jan. 23.
 Hundreds of actors are already on board, including names like Ed Asner, Justine Bateman and Viggo Mortensen, judging from their public comments. But other working actors appear to be balancing the fight for a better contract against their desire to walk picket lines during a recession.
 ''Getting the strike authorization will be a tall order given the economic crisis,'' said David M. Smith, a labor economist at Pepperdine University. ''I expect leaders wouldn't be pushing for this vote if they didn't think they could win, but I think it will be very close.''
 So SAG leaders are digging in for battle with their own members, using a multifaceted sales strategy. Their campaign includes e-mail messages to members, strongly worded fact sheets and imploring video messages. In the latest video, posted on the SAG Web site on Tuesday, Alan Rosenberg, the guild president, looked calmly into the camera and tried to address fears about striking at such an awkward time.
 The studios, Mr. Rosenberg said, ''hope to use the economic uncertainty of 2008 to scare you into making a deal you will regret in 2010 and beyond.''
 The centerpiece of the campaign is a series of meetings -- some with members, some with publicists and managers -- to press the case for a strike authorization and to generate media attention. On Monday, SAG held a three-hour informational meeting in Los Angeles that was attended by an estimated 500 members. 
 ''The meeting confirmed that there is a great deal of support for a strike authorization,'' said Doug Allen, the guild's executive director. ''I'm feeling positive.'' A similar event is planned for New York next Monday, with a much larger Hollywood event planned for the middle of next week.
 On Wednesday, SAG summoned publicists and managers who represent prominent actors to meetings in Los Angeles and New York. 
 SAG leaders say the contract offer from producers is not adequate when it comes to the streaming of professionally produced video on the Internet. They also say actors should receive more money from the sale of DVDs, and compensation and control over the integration of products into television programs and movies.
 The guild plans print ads and more videos over the next two weeks. A guild spokeswoman described the financial drain of the campaign as significant; insiders estimate the price tag at several hundred thousand dollars.
 SAG is battling the deep-pocketed Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, the organization that negotiates labor contracts on behalf of the major studios. The group has introduced its own aggressive public relations effort against the strike authorization, orchestrated by a cadre of studio communications experts.
 Most visibly, the group took out a full-page ad in The Los Angeles Times on Dec. 1. Signed by the chief executives of the industry's eight largest filmed entertainment companies, the strongly worded ''open letter to the entertainment industry'' inferred that SAG was lucky producers have not revised their offer downward as the economy has slumped. 
 Studios have also taken the unusual step of posting their entire contract offer on the Internet for actors to scrutinize for themselves, and have been encouraging actors to reject SAG's stance in ads in industry trade newspapers and via fliers distributed at casting agencies. An animated graphic on the organization's Web site estimates that a strike will cost actors $2.5 million a day.
 Many other factions are lining up against a strike, too. Many agents, still suffering the aftermath of the 100-day writers' strike of a year ago, are waging a private campaign against any work stoppage. 
 The American Federation of Television and Radio Artists and the unions representing directors and writers have already settled, adding to the pressure on SAG members. And a wide variety of businesses that serve the entertainment industry -- dry cleaners, lumberyards, florists, restaurants -- have been warning actors about the pain a strike would inflict on them.
 In his most recent video, Mr. Rosenberg addressed these people. ''We are sensitive to the needs and concerns of everybody who works in this industry,'' he said, adding that a strike authorization vote ''is a last-resort option but one that is critical.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); STRIKES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); FILM (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); APPROVALS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); COMPANY STRATEGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL A J FARRELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



388 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Russia Volunteers to Join An OPEC Cut in Oil Output

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Faced with falling oil prices, Russia is preparing to announce that it will work with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to coordinate a reduction in output, the minister of energy said Wednesday. 
 This fall, a Russian official floated the idea of storing oil, rather than exporting it, to help OPEC stabilize prices, but this is the first time that the Kremlin has offered to reduce output. 
 World oil prices, which have fallen to around $40 a barrel, rose in response to the comments by the minister of energy, Sergei I. Shmatko, in early trading in New York. Oil settled at $43.10 a barrel, up $1.03. 
 Mr. Shmatko said that by Dec. 17, the date of the next scheduled OPEC meeting, Russia will announce a plan to reduce the country's oil production, the Interfax news agency reported. The minister offered no details of how this would be done, or how much oil might be taken off the market. Mr. Shmatko said Russia would also seek to persuade other non-OPEC producers to reduce output. A spokeswoman for the ministry declined to elaborate.
 In fact, Russian oil output is declining in any case, as costs rise and deposits are depleted. 
 ''Russia wants to make official what has already happened,'' Vitaly Y. Yermakov, research director for Russian and Caspian energy at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said.
 At the same time, the Russian statement represented a continuing evolution in Russia's relationship to OPEC. While formally at arm's length, Russia and OPEC have flirted over some form of cooperation through the fall.
 The development could alarm consumers, who were breathing a sigh of relief that American gasoline prices had dipped below $2 a gallon. 
 But it is unclear how much Russia will affect prices. Over all, the government has grown increasingly anti-Western.
 The Russian oil sector is a blend of state-owned and private companies including a major joint venture with BP, the British oil giant, that would have to answer to stockholders for a reduction in revenue caused by a drop in output. Moreover, producing and transporting oil is costly in Russia, and idling pipelines and fields could severely damage the industry. 
 Typically in oil price slumps, Russia and the Soviet Union before it had continued to pump oil freely, benefiting from the support for world oil prices provided by OPEC's members, while not sharing in the financial loss from cutting production 
 Other non-OPEC countries -- which also benefit from OPEC while not belonging to it -- have rejected cooperation with OPEC. A spokesman for the ministry of petroleum and energy in Norway, the world's fifth-largest oil exporter, said Wednesday his country would not cooperate with the cartel, regardless of Russia's decision, Bloomberg News reported. 
 Russia pumps about 9.8 million barrels of oil a day, the second-greatest output in the world after Saudi Arabia, and exports about seven million barrels of crude oil and refined products, mostly to Europe. 
 Kremlin officials have suggested that they may help OPEC, though petroleum analysts say the official comments may be intended mostly to mollify OPEC members, and encourage them to make production cuts, rather than indicate any serious Russian intention to help fix prices.
 So far, OPEC's cuts have not slowed the drop in the price of oil. For example, imports to China fell in November and American crude oil inventories are rising, all putting downward pressure on prices regardless of what supplier nations do. Since the last OPEC production cut on Oct. 24, oil prices have dropped 30 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CARTELS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: IHS INC (67%); CASPIAN ENERGY INC (54%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (67%); CEK (TSX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (54%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (54%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: SERGEI SHMATKO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



389 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Pressing Its Investors, GMAC Says It Lacks the Capital to Be a Bank

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
As lawmakers debated a bailout package for Detroit's big automobile companies, the future of an important piece of the industry was being negotiated on a parallel track in New York on Wednesday.
 Cerberus Capital Management, the private investment firm that controls GMAC and owns Chrysler, raised the specter of bankruptcy to apply pressure to GMAC's bondholders to go along with a bond-exchange plan that many of them have been resisting.
 Whether bondholders agree will not be known for at least a few days. 
 But whatever happens at GMAC will ripple through the auto industry. The financing company provides loans to consumers for cars and to dealers for their inventories. General Motors, which retains a large stake in the financing company, said in its latest turnaround plan to Congress that it was counting on GMAC's viability. Otherwise, G.M.'s financial problems, and its need for government assistance, could grow.
 In what some viewed as an act of brinksmanship, GMAC issued a statement Wednesday morning saying that it did not have adequate capital at the moment to qualify to become a bank holding company. Only by becoming a bank can it secure a financial lifeline from the government's $700 billion financial rescue plan.
 Without that money, GMAC could indeed be forced to file for bankruptcy by year-end, industry experts said. 
 The statement came just two days before a deadline for GMAC's bondholders to agree to the bond exchange, which would allow GMAC to satisfy the Federal Reserve's capital requirements, and just hours before advisers hired by GMAC held negotiations with representatives of bondholders.
 GMAC's statement lit a fire among its bondholders, who are torn over whether Cerberus, a $28 billion firm in New York, would really throw in the towel on its investment. Long known as a shrewd investor, Cerberus bought a 51 percent stake in the company with a group of co-investors for $14 million; General Motors owns the rest.
 Cerberus had hoped to merge the financing arm of Chrysler with GMAC, but the sputter in the debt markets derailed that plan. The firm remains hopeful of receiving short-term loans from the government for Chrysler, but Chrysler is the smallest of Detroit's automakers and considered the weakest.
 What's more, a key forecasting firm said Wednesday that while G.M. and Ford had viable plans, Chrysler did not, regardless of whether it got government aid.
 For G.M., any additional problems at the financing company would bring more pain for its dealers, who have long depended on GMAC to provide consumer financing and to carry its inventory. The automaker set up the unit in 1919 to help customers buy its cars. 
 ''How serious is this on a scale of one to 10?'' asked Michael Martin, chairman of the G.M. Industry Relations Committee at the National Automobile Dealers Association. ''It's a 10.'' 
 Already the problems at GMAC have taken a toll as auto sales slump to levels not seen in decades. To shore up its finances, the company has tightened its lending standards, so that consumers need top credit ratings -- credit scores above 700 -- to qualify for its financing. A year ago, the company provided financing for about half of all G.M. cars sold. Today, it accounts for about 6 percent, according to statistics compiled by Plante & Moran, an auto industry consulting firm in suburban Detroit. 
 ''This is not good,'' said Sean McAlinden, chief economist at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''GMAC collapses, and a large avenue to financing cars will not be there. People will have to pay more for auto credit. There will be less competition.'' 
 G.M., which has largely written down its stake in the financing company, is focusing its efforts in Washington on getting a $15 billion bridge loan.
 Meanwhile, Cerberus and its auto financing company need to obtain cash fast to avoid the risk of breaking loan covenants on Dec. 31. GMAC plans to do that by becoming a bank holding company and gaining access to government assistance. Right now, the company has too much debt to qualify under the Fed's capital rules. That's where the bondholders come in.
 Last month, the company began a bond swap, offering investors preferred shares in return for their accepting lower face amounts on their bonds. The company extended the deadline to this Friday to try to drum up enough interest and reduce its debt. Then it issued the statement on Wednesday warning of dire consequences if bondholders failed to come forward.
 Among other things, bondholders said GMAC and Cerberus had not responded to requests to negotiate in recent weeks on their demands, including an additional $2 billion investment by Cerberus or other investors. 
 ''It's inexplicable to me that Cerberus and GMAC would not have engaged the bondholders weeks ago and have instead waited until the 11th hour,'' said David Bullock, managing director at Advent Capital Management, a large bondholder in GMAC. ''It's not only coercive, it's irresponsible.''
 GMAC needs the holders of 75 percent of the bonds subject to the exchange offer to accept it. Holders of less than 25 percent of the bonds initially agreed. 
 Some bondholders see the bankruptcy threat as a bluff. Pimco, the giant money manager in California, is one bondholder that is unconvinced that Cerberus would actually push GMAC into bankruptcy, according to people close to the matter.
 Pimco officials did not return a call for comment. Neither did Cerberus officials. 
 GMAC has about $165 billion in auto loans outstanding. With its financing severely constricted, consumers and dealers have been turning to regional banks and any others willing to lend to the auto industry. To help pick up the slack, G.M. announced Wednesday a test program in the Midwest under which credit unions will make $10 billion in financing available for low-cost car loans to their members. 
 Mr. McAlinden said that if GMAC withdrew its application to obtain money under the financial rescue program, the company would most likely have to file for bankruptcy, an opinion that echoes a statement by Standard & Poor's Rating Services last month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



390 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Reprieve for Tax Shelter Is in Proposed Bailout for Detroit

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A little-noticed provision in the proposed bailout plan for Detroit's automakers blesses an aggressive tax shelter sold by large banks and insurers to municipal transit agencies across the country. 
 The provision asks the government to help the agencies by guaranteeing the economics of the complex shelter, despite years of efforts by the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service to shut it down and collect billions of dollars of unpaid taxes, interest and penalties owed by the banks and insurers. 
 The shelter, known as Silo, for sale-in, lease-out, was one of the costliest corporate tax dodges in recent years and allowed participants, including the American International Group, to avoid paying tens of billions of dollars in taxes by buying and then leasing back depreciation rights and assets at the agencies. 
 Many of the deals are faltering because of the credit crisis and have put the agencies at risk of having to make large payments to banks and insurers. Last month, the agencies asked the government to back their role in the deals. The I.R.S., which banned the shelter in 2004, offered a so-called amnesty in August to more than 45 corporations that engaged in more than 1,000 Silo deals involving municipal property.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and the ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee, said on Wednesday that the provision was ''a dark-of-night move that unravels an important tax reform and benefits tax shelter participants, including transit agencies, corporations and foreign banks, on the U.S. taxpayers' dime.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); TAX REFORM (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



391 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Now They Say They Can Do It

 BODY:
Detroit's struggling automakers could do themselves and everyone else a favor by dropping their increasingly untenable four-year legal assault on California's efforts to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks. 
Three different federal courts have ruled against them. While President Bush has been far too sympathetic to their cause -- for either Detroit's own good or the environment's -- the Obama administration surely will not share those sympathies.
Nor is there any technological impediment, despite what the automakers have long claimed. According to the business plans submitted to Congress by General Motors and Ford as part of their appeal for federal help (Chrysler has been far less forthcoming) both companies appear fully capable of meeting, if not exceeding, the California standards.
In 2002, California mandated new motor vehicle regulations aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2015. The law set no new fuel-economy standards, a federal responsibility. But a reduction in emissions of that magnitude would inevitably require big improvements in fuel efficiency in cars and light trucks, a category that includes sport-utility vehicles.
The automakers challenged the California law mainly on grounds that it pre-empted federal authority to set fuel-economy standards. Federal courts in California, Vermont and Rhode Island have rejected that challenge, arguing that California has the right under the Clean Air Act to regulate pollutants it regards as dangerous to the health and welfare of its citizens and that there is no conflict between California law and federal law.
Due largely to the recent popularity of more fuel-efficient models, today's passenger cars average about 31 miles per gallon, light trucks about 22 m.p.g.
In the business plan submitted to Congress on Dec. 2, G.M. stated that it could quickly and significantly improve on that performance: promising 37 m.p.g. in passenger cars and more than 27 m.p.g. in S.U.V.'s and pickups by 2012. Ford's plan indicated that it could do almost as well.
According to an analysis by the Natural Resources Defense Council, with those fuel-efficiency levels, G.M. and Ford could without much difficulty meet California's greenhouse gas emissions standards nationwide.
Even so, Detroit persists in its campaign, especially inside Mr. Bush's Environmental Protection Agency, which has refused to give California the permission it needs to implement the standards. More than a dozen states have adopted California's standards but cannot proceed until California gets approval.
President-elect Barack Obama's E.P.A. is almost certain to grant that permission, which would remove industry's last line of defense. Detroit could earn itself some badly needed respect and trust if it announced that from now on it will devote its managerial energies to the task of making much cleaner, high-mileage cars -- rather than fighting sensible and essential efforts to control the spread of greenhouse gases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2011



392 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: New School Faculty Votes No Confidence in Kerrey

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Bob Kerrey, the Vietnam veteran and former Nebraska governor and senator known for his acerbic tongue and iconoclastic tendencies, was handed an overwhelming vote of no-confidence on Wednesday afternoon by the senior faculty at the New School, the Greenwich Village university he has run since 2001.
 Mr. Kerrey has clashed with some professors since the day of his appointment as the New School's president, with complaints that he lacks a Ph.D. and that his politics -- particularly his early support for the Iraq war -- were too moderate for the unabashedly liberal campus. But the underlying controversies became an open uprising this week after Mr. Kerrey announced that he would serve temporarily as provost as well as president after cycling through four provosts in seven years.
 The no-confidence resolution, which has no direct impact but is intended to pressure the board of trustees to dismiss Mr. Kerry, was backed by 74 senior, tenured professors and opposed by 2, with one abstaining. 
 Afterward, many of the professors marched over to a scheduled meeting of the board of trustees to deliver a document denouncing Mr. Kerrey for making it ''virtually impossible for the faculty to be properly involved in thoughtful and effective academic planning,'' and declaring that the turnover in the provost's office was ''part of a larger pattern characterized by unilateral, impulsive and sometimes secret decision-making.''
 The trustees, according to a university spokeswoman, offered their unanimous support for Mr. Kerrey at the meeting.
 Interviews with former provosts and senior professors indicated that conflicts over governance have ranged from the profound to the mundane: A few years ago, Mr. Kerrey dismissed an outside consultant's report recommending a separate budget for academic affairs, as many universities have; more recently, Parsons the New School for Design was blocked from printing hats and other items with a new logo because it was not the university's symbol.
 Some said the disagreements were as much about Mr. Kerrey's style as substance.
 ''I came to the New School largely because I sensed that he was a charismatic, affable, charming person,'' said Arjun Appadurai, an anthropologist who was provost from late 2004 to July 2006 and is helping to lead the revolt. ''I found that was one part of the style. But I also found there was another part that was impulsive, autocratic and produced an increasing sense of fear among those who worked for him.'' 
 The situation in some ways echoes the difficulties Lawrence H. Summers had as president of Harvard before he was forced out in 2006. 
 Like Mr. Summers, who is now President-elect Barack Obama's choice to be chief White House economic adviser, Mr. Kerrey was recruited in part for his star power and management acumen. And like Mr. Summers, he has often found university politics more difficult to navigate than electoral politics.
 Mr. Kerrey, in an interview, acknowledged that the high turnover among provosts -- the university's chief academic officer -- was unusual and unfortunate, but he defended his decisions to replace those he deemed ineffective. 
 He said that much of the anger directed his way is rooted in deeper and more complex issues about the nature of the New School, which was once known as a haven for intellectuals fleeing Hitler's Europe and has long functioned more like a confederation than a university. 
 ''I don't fear any vote that the faculty could take,'' Mr. Kerrey said, noting that the group meeting on Wednesday involved a fraction of the New School's 333 full-time and 1,733 part-time faculty. As president, he said, he has ruffled feathers because he is trying to ''move from one kind of university to another kind of university,'' adding, ''The problem at the New School is not necessarily me.''
 Mr. Kerrey, who is 65 and has a contract through 2011, said on Wednesday that he would consider appointing an interim provost if it seemed that the search would be prolonged, contrary to his e-mail message to the faculty on Monday that he would serve as acting provost after the abrupt departure of Joseph W. Westphal, a former congressman, assistant secretary of the Army and chancellor of the University of Maine. 
 Mr. Westphal left, after only three months on the job, to work on defense issues for Mr. Obama's transition team -- a short-term job, raising questions about why he would not return.
 Mr. Westphal, whom Mr. Kerrey recruited to the university and who had won many friends on the faculty, did not respond to a message left on his cellphone. Mr. Kerrey, for his part, said: ''I don't think it is legitimate to say to me that I do not have the authority to hire and fire my provost.'' 
 The faculty also voted no confidence in James Murtha, who since 2005 has been the university's executive vice president, essentially the provost's counterpart on the business side. Because of the turnover among provosts, professors complain, power has been consolidated in Mr. Murtha's hands, limiting their role on curriculum issues like creating new courses, hiring, and tenure decisions.
 ''I think everyone has just had it,'' said Duncan K. Foley, a professor of economics. ''This administration's paralysis and dysfunction has reach a tipping point.''
 In some ways, Mr. Kerrey's tenure has been tumultuous from the start, with some professors suspicious of his lack of academic credentials, others critical of his penchant for catchy quotations, and still others offended by his calls in 2002 for regime change in Iraq, which he defended in a debate with undergraduates before a packed auditorium.
 Mr. Kerrey said the most contentious issue has been his attempts to transform the way professors are appointed and tenure is granted. Dissenters, many of them refusing to be identified for fear of retaliation, complain about Mr. Kerrey's temperament and say he has placed the school's budgetary concerns over academic excellence. 
 Elizabeth Dickey, who served as Mr. Kerry's first provost and has since left the New School, said: ''Bob Kerrey is smart and works hard, but he really didn't know academic life when he came to the New School and he had to learn. At most other universities, the academic life is seen as the mission and the academic life gets a big seat at the table.''
 The New School's instructors once included luminaries like Hannah Arendt, Leo Strauss and Aaron Copland, but in the 1980s and '90s the school was known more for its adult-education offerings than for more prestigious university work. Mr. Kerrey was recruited to build on work done by his predecessor, Jonathan F. Fanton, to turn disparate programs on fine arts and social sciences into a unified academic institution.
 He has succeeded at raising the school's profile, stabilizing its finances, and increasing enrollment in degree programs to about 10,000 from 7,000. But critics contend he has emphasized enrollment and splashy initiatives like a proposed new building on 14th Street and Fifth Avenue over academics and shut them out from important decisions.
 Mr. Kerrey lost part of his right leg in the Vietnam War and was awarded the Medal of Honor. He made a fortune with a chain of restaurants and health clubs in Nebraska. He served as the state's governor from 1983 to 1987 and as a senator from 1989 through 2000. He sought the Democratic nomination for president in 1992, flirted with another run for president in 2000, and briefly considered a run for mayor of New York in 2005.
 In 2004, he spent weeks in the national spotlight as a member of the commission investigating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, aggressively questioning witnesses including Condoleezza Rice.
 Mr. Kerrey made no apologies for making hard business decisions that have most likely angered some faculty members. In the current economic climate, he said, he has instituted a hiring freeze and will probably eliminate pay raises this year.
 But he views himself as battling an entrenched culture, where the various schools protect their turf even as he tries to create a more central authority. He said he expects a two-year effort to produce a faculty handbook with clear universitywide guidelines on key issues to be finished in the coming months.
 He was unfazed by Wednesday's vote.
 ''If the board loses confidence in me, then I would move on with no hard feelings,'' he said. ''If I went out and got hit by a bus, I would know it had been a great eight years.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about a no-confidence vote in Bob Kerrey, president of the New School, by the senior faculty misstated part of the professional background of Joseph W. Westphal, who recently resigned as university provost. Mr. Westphal worked for Congress in various capacities from 1988 to 1995, but was never a congressman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Kerrey before a board of trustees meeting on Wednesday. Professors say he has made it very hard for the faculty to be properly involved in effective planning,(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (75%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



393 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Americans Face U.S. Opposition In Iraq Lawsuits

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and JAMES GLANZ; Riyadh Mohammed contributed reporting from Baghdad.

 BODY:
George Charchalis says he has never really recovered from the ordeal he endured after Saddam Hussein's Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990. 
 He hid for more than a month in Kuwait City but was ultimately arrested, ''roughed up pretty good'' and taken to Iraq. He was held there for nearly three months as a human shield against American bombing.
 After the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Mr. Charchalis, now 78, had every reason to believe that he and 240 other Americans held during the Persian Gulf war of 1991 would be compensated under expansive laws that allow Americans to claim assets of foreign governments like Iraq's. President Bush, after all, had seized Iraqi assets just before the war and paid other people used as human shields nearly $100 million. 
 But, illustrating the stark trajectory of the Bush administration's policy in Iraq, the president has joined a new effort to block further claims, at least for the immediate future. The rationale is that the claims -- some small like Mr. Charchalis's, others amounting to billions of dollars -- could bankrupt the Iraqi government, endanger its fragile democracy and virtually shut government business, even oil exports. 
 So Mr. Bush supports extending powerful legal measures put in place by the United Nations Security Council in 2003 to protect Iraq against such claims. With the administration's blessing, Iraq asked the Council to renew the protections for another year.
 ''With oil revenues generating more than 95 percent of the government's resources,'' Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq wrote to the Council on Tuesday in a letter obtained by The New York Times, ''these claims could affect reconstruction and economic transformation taking place in Iraq, and consequently constitute a grave threat to Iraq's stability and security, and therefore to international peace and security.''
 Some of those with claims say that Mr. Bush's reversal amounts to a betrayal of Americans who were harmed by the former government and who once enjoyed the moral and legal support of the American government.
 ''I applaud the toppling of Saddam,'' said Clifford Acree, a retired Marine pilot who was held as a prisoner of war by Iraq and tortured in 1991. ''I welcome the development of democracy in Iraq. 
 ''I just don't want to ignore what was done,'' he said. ''I just don't want to give the Iraqis a free pass when it comes to accounting for the past.''
 Iraq's foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, said Iraq would like to settle the claims if they could be reduced substantially through negotiations, perhaps as part of an all-encompassing package like the settlement with Libya in the case of Pan Am Flight 103.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Zebari said, Iraq cannot risk the shutdown of government operations and thus intends to press for a vote by the Security Council before it adjourns for the year. 
 ''This extension will give us some relief for another year, give us some breathing space,'' he said.
 A White House spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said the administration supported the extension for now, but also ''made it clear to the Iraqis that it is important to address the legitimate claims of our citizens.''
 The scope of the claims, and the politically charged nature of some, could make a resolution difficult. 
 Iraq still owes some $26 billion on claims, mainly from Kuwait, that have been handled by the United Nations Compensation Commission, a body set up in 1991 to deal with reparations.
 Iraq also has about $50 billion in debts to other countries. Iraq's finance minister, Bayan Jabr, said Iraq also owed as much as $7 billion to private companies. 
 Legal challenges could expose Iraq to still more. Kuwait Airways also won a roughly $1 billion judgment in Britain against Iraq's national airline in a case stemming from the first gulf war. Amid the welter of American lawsuits are some that claim that Mr. Hussein's government had a hand in international terrorist acts, including the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Although international law binds them to Mr. Hussein's debts, senior Iraqi officials are increasingly reluctant to pay for Hussein-era abuses. 
 The United Nations protections against international claims and seizures of assets were part of the Security Council resolutions that authorized the American military presence in the country. President Bush then provided a second layer of protection by signing an executive order essentially saying that Iraqi money in the United States could not be seized. He worked with Congress to further reduce the risk to the money.
 Iraq and the United States signed new agreements in November to establish the new conditions for American troops to remain in Iraq for the next three years. But the financial protections expire with the Council resolution on Dec. 31, and Mr. Bush's executive order expires in May 2009. 
 The expiration of the United Nations mandate also raises other issues. The Council resolutions created a structure for handling Iraq's oil revenues. The revenues go to an account called the Development Fund for Iraq at the New York Federal Reserve Bank. Five percent of the fund is diverted to the compensation commission to pay off the reparations. 
 Iraq made it clear that it wanted to reduce or eliminate the percentage set aside for claims. 
 ''This is obscene that Iraq has to pay 5 percent of Iraqi oil revenues to pay these claims,'' said a senior Iraqi official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of delicate relations between Iraq and Kuwait. ''At a time when we are so desperate for funding for our own reconstruction and security, it would be smarter for the Kuwaitis to invest in the future of Iraq rather than profiting from the miseries of the past.''
 They have also suggested that the United Nations board that oversees the oil money, now run by Western financial experts, be replaced with one consisting of Iraqis and probably led by Abdulbasit Turki Saeed, president of the Board of Supreme Audit. The United States is opposed, administration officials said, leaving the outcome unclear. Mr. Maliki, in his letter to the Security Council, did not request a change but rather an extension.
 The risk to Iraq's assets is far from theoretical. 
 After Kuwait Airways won judgments against Iraq and its national airline, a Canadian court ruled last summer that the Kuwaitis could seize passenger jets that Iraq was having built under a contract with Bombardier, a Canadian company.
 The legal foundations for the claims date from the 1990s, when Congress enacted a law allowing Americans to sue foreign governments accused of sponsoring terrorism, including Iraq. Claims under the law were largely symbolic, because they involved cases against governments that refused to recognize the American jurisdiction. But in 2002, Mr. Bush signed legislation allowing payment for judgments from the frozen assets of terrorist states.
 In 2003, on the eve of the Iraq war, he seized more than $4 billion in frozen Iraqi assets in the United States and paid a portion -- $96 million -- to 180 Americans held as human shields who had won court judgments. 
 He distributed the rest to the provisional authorities in newly occupied Iraq, and in May 2003, he waived Iraq's liability under the laws, effectively blocking payment for additional claims. 
 That left claims like Mr. Charchalis's in limbo. 
 Mr. Charchalis was part of a second group of 240 human shields whose case had not yet been heard when the first group received its payment from Iraq's foreign assets. A landscape architect, Mr. Charchalis had gone to Kuwait to work on a project to turn the desert into gardens. 
 He was arrested a month after Iraq's invasion in August 1990 and taken to Baghdad, then to a chemical plant near Samarra, where he was held until Dec. 2, when he and 14 others were released after an appeal from the former boxer Muhammad Ali.
 Mr. Charchalis, now living on Social Security, criticized the administration for taking Iraq's side and disputed the notion that his claim would undermine Iraq's ability to rebuild. 
 ''It just seemed terribly unfair that an American citizen couldn't get compensation when we're over there spending, what, $10 billion a month,'' he said. 
 A lawsuit involving 17 prisoners of war has been even more vexing for Mr. Bush because of the political delicacy of opposing Americans who were shot down during the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and tortured in Iraqi captivity. In 2002, they won a default judgment against Mr. Hussein's government, and in July 2003, a court awarded them $959 million. 
 After Mr. Hussein's fall, however, Mr. Bush's administration fought efforts to pay the claim. Later in July 2003, the Court of Appeals in Washington ruled that the plaintiffs should look elsewhere for payment, effectively dismissing the case.
 In 2007, lawmakers passed an amendment that would have revived the cases and allowed the claimants to go after Iraqi assets in American banks and elsewhere. But Mr. Bush vetoed the bill after, officials said at the time, Iraq complained that the law would force it to remove its money from American banks.
 John Norton Moore, director of the Center for National Security Law at the University of Virginia School of Law, who represents the prisoners of war, said the administration had made no effort to force Iraq to settle the claims. 
 ''The fairness for American prisoners of war, tortured by the enemy is a matter of national honor,'' he said. ''It is not only wrong to put the debts of corporations like Hyundai ahead of prisoners who were tortured. It is an insult to the nation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1990, Iraqi soldiers seized George Charchalis in Kuwait and held him for three months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clifford Acree, a retired Marine pilot, was held as a prisoner of war by Iraq and tortured in 1991. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) CHART: BILLIONS IN DAMAGES AWARDED AGAINST IRAQ: The United Nations has itemized these types of claims against Iraq. Here is the status of 2.7 million resolved cases, as of Oct. 30
 1.5 million claims were awarded money. (Source: United Nations Compensation Commission) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS COMPENSATION COMMISSION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (94%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



394 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Hospital Officials Worry As Paterson Signals Need For More Medicaid Cuts

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Heart attack victims would be revived, and broken bones would be put in casts. But pregnant women might not be able to get prenatal checkups at convenient times, treatment for children's asthma might be cut and diabetes diagnoses for adults could be delayed.
 These are among the doomsday predictions of public and private hospital executives across New York City as Gov. David A. Paterson prepares to release a budget next week that he has warned will include severe cuts to the state Medicaid program that reimburses hospitals and doctors for services to low-income patients.
 In the worst case, officials say, hospitals could face bankruptcies, service cuts and layoffs within a matter of months if Medicaid cuts being proposed by Governor Paterson go into effect.
 ''I'm never going to argue that you can't be more efficient or that you can't remodel the care, but I guarantee you the cuts are going to be more of an across-the-board cut,'' said Stanley Brezenoff, chief executive of Continuum Health Partners, which runs five New York hospitals, including Beth Israel. ''There's no scalpel in any of this; it's all whack, whack, whack.'' 
 The governor plans to announce his latest budget on Tuesday, and has already signaled that it could contain cuts to the state's health care system far deeper than the $572 million reduction in Medicaid spending statewide that he proposed in November, which is supposed to get the state through March. 
 Since the November proposal, there have been further drops in tax revenue, with a yawning budget gap now projected at $14 billion to $15 billion.
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the governor warned his executive committee and hospital union leaders at a meeting last week: ''Your worst fears will be realized.'' He said he was so taken aback by the governor's comment that he wrote it down.
 On Tuesday, Joe Baker, the governor's health policy adviser, told a health policy forum at the Rockefeller Institute in Albany that the new budget would be ''tougher than you think.''
 Beyond fueling the expected complaints from those on the receiving end of large budget reductions, the impending health care cuts have set up a broader philosophical discussion between the Paterson administration and the hospital industry. 
 State officials say that New York has been relatively inefficient in its Medicaid spending, steering money toward expensive hospital treatment of problems that could be better handled in doctors' offices. 
 New York State spends more on Medicaid than any other state, $2,283 per capita per year, twice the national average of $1,026, a state Health Department spokeswoman said. 
 Dr. Richard F. Daines, the state health commissioner, said the new budget would lay out a plan to pay more to primary care and clinic doctors, while shifting that money away from hospitals, which in theory would see fewer patients because of better preventive care. 
 At the health forum, Mr. Baker said, ''It's not about curtailing generosity, it's about whether or not we're getting real value for the money that we're spending.''
 Hospital executives say that they are not opposed to making that shift, but that cutting Medicaid is counterproductive if the goal is to promote primary care. 
 ''There is a fundamental dilemma or contradiction here on the state level between their stated health care policy reform agenda, which is all about robust primary and preventive care and better disease management, and the inevitable outcome of these cuts,'' Alan D. Aviles, president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, said. The corporation runs the city's 11 public hospitals, which get about 65 percent of their income from Medicaid.
 ''I don't know whether the executive proposal will find a way to balance those problems, or whether the deficit will be so overwhelming it's going to trump everything else and it's only going to be about cost-cutting,'' Mr. Aviles said.
 Hospital executives say that they cannot cut essential services like the emergency room and neonatal intensive care, even if they lose money, and that cutting acute inpatient care does not make sense because it is reimbursed at or above actual costs. 
 But spending on community-based clinics, which generally lose money and are subsidized by other services, can be cut through measures like reductions in hours, longer times between appointments and reductions in the number of specialists on staff. 
 At Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, in a part of Queens near Kennedy Airport heavily populated by immigrants, David P. Rosen, the chief executive, said the proposed Medicaid cuts could force the hospital to shrink or close its outpatient clinics, which get about 400,000 visits a year, sending many of those patients to an already bursting emergency room. 
 Jamaica's E.R., Mr. Rosen said, handles 110,000 visits a year -- or about 300 patients a day -- and accounts for 90 percent of admissions to the 287-bed hospital.
 Dr. Linda Brady, the chief executive of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn, said that the economic downturn combined with the anticipated Medicaid cuts had led Kingsbrook to submit a plan to the state for closing a community clinic and that the hospital was considering shutting down other services ''that are not mission critical.'' Last year Kingsbrook closed three clinics that it acquired when nearby St. Mary's Hospital closed in 2005.
 While Medicaid costs are high in New York, much of that money has gone to long-term care for the elderly, the disabled and people with multiple medical problems. Mr. Brezenoff said there has been little growth in spending for women and children, who make up the bulk of the Medicaid population, and are most vulnerable to cuts.
 New York's private nonprofit hospitals showed operating surpluses in 2006 and 2007, according to the association, but are breaking even ''at best'' this year because of declining investment income and frozen credit markets, Mr. Raske said. Even before the state cuts take effect, some New York City hospitals are considering filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, he added, declining to say which ones for fear of damaging their reputations.
 The hospital industry employs 400,000 people statewide and had been immune from the layoffs plaguing other industries until recently; in the last national unemployment report, ''the only sector that actually had a net increase was health care,'' Mr. Raske said. 
 ''For all practical purposes, that trend is dead now in New York and around the country,'' he said. ''Those statistics are going to go the way of the American bison.''
 He said the cuts would hurt the economy of many small communities. ''We employ a lot more people than Wall Street,'' Mr. Raske added. ''We are the Main Street employer.'' 
 Because the federal government matches most Medicaid spending in New York, any cuts by the state will be doubled, and multiplied again by the reduction in payments from Medicaid managed-care plans, Mr. Raske said. He said that Medicaid cuts affected not only poor people who qualify for the program, but everyone.
 ''The average hospital has probably 30 percent Medicaid,'' Mr. Raske said. ''Even if you're on Park Avenue and you think this doesn't affect you, well, it will. It affects everybody. It goes into the bottom line of every hospital. We don't have Medicaid nurses. We don't have Medicaid CT scans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With the state's finances looking worse, Mr. Paterson has signaled a need for austerity.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (92%); HOSPITALS (91%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DIABETES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



395 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Transition Hampers Talks on Climate Change

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL; Andrew C. Revkin contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: POZNAN, Poland 

 BODY:
As ministers from 189 countries gather here in the coal mining regions of Poland to hammer out a new climate treaty, progress is being sorely hampered by the transition under way in American politics, delegates and experts here said.
 No one expected a team representing President-elect Barack Obama to attend these meetings -- he has said there is but one president at a time, and the United States is still represented here by the Bush administration. But the anticipation of his presidency has left this critical meeting in a bit of limbo. 
 Mr. Obama has called climate change ''a matter of urgency,'' promising to seek legislation to cut greenhouse gas emissions sharply and to increase United States participation in global climate initiatives. But many countries are still waiting to size up Mr. Obama's actual environmental commitment before making bold moves of their own. 
 ''It has affected the meeting in a fairly significant way,'' said Gus Silva-Chavez, a policy expert at the Environmental Defense Fund in Washington, who has been observing the closed negotiations. ''A lot of people think: 'This is not the time to put our cards on the table. Let's wait for the new administration. Why agree to anything now?' '' 
 This problem is exacerbated by the fact that the European Union is itself struggling to finalize its own climate package this week -- hampered by the global economic turndown -- and so its delegates have been unusually quiet here. 
 ''We have a sense of urgency, but you don't see any strong decisions'' being made here, said Elenita Dano, a member of the Philippines delegation. ''Political developments in the U.S. and the E.U. are holding us hostage, and we have no choice but to wait.''
 The current negotiations are meant to culminate in a treaty in Copenhagen in December 2009, to take effect in 2013. It will replace industrialized nations' commitments to reduce emissions under the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. The United States never ratified that agreement, and its binding terms do not apply to China, India, and other emerging powers that are projected to account for nearly all growth in emissions in the next few decades. 
 So far Mr. Obama has outlined a number of broad policies but provided few specifics or a timetable for implementing his ideas. He could propose a climate bill, but the kind of cap-and-trade system preferred by Mr. Obama for greenhouse gases would, by many estimates, take at least a year or two to hash out even with a Democratic majority in both houses of Congress. 
 ''The fear is this could become a Clinton health plan, trying to do too much too soon, and ending up with nothing,'' said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House staff member who is now with the National Commission on Energy Policy. 
 On the other hand, short-term measures that would be easier to enact, like energy initiatives in an economic stimulus spending package, could be perceived by Europe and China, particularly, as insufficient evidence of meaningful change. 
 Even at the highest levels, officials here are awaiting results: ''Another climate treaty without the U.S. doesn't make a lot of sense,'' said Yvo de Boer, head of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the meeting's sponsor.
 There are ample signs that the United States can do little of substance in these talks because of the presidential transition. In an interview several days ago, James L. Connaughton, the chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said the Bush administration climate team was committed to keeping all options open for the incoming Obama administration -- in essence saying that the American negotiators in Poznan had little room to make commitments.
 ''We have taken ideas very extensively from many people who are currently senior advisers to the Obama team on how to think through creative future approaches,'' he said.
 Still, the conference has achieved a few important goals. The delegates have agreed on a method for essentially paying countries and communities for preserving forests, through a system of carbon credits. Twenty percent of man-made carbon-dioxide emissions are attributed to deforestation. The delegates are also nearing agreement on a fund, conceptualized a year ago, to help developing nations adapt to climate change. 
 Expectations for the talks here were always muted, because Poznan was meant to be a midpoint meeting that would lead to a new climate treaty by next December. 
 Negotiators may yet be on track to meet that goal. ''If the pace picks up we could get an agreement by Copenhagen,'' said Angela Anderson, director of the International Global Warming Campaign of the Pew Environment Group.
 On Thursday, government ministers arrive for two days of meetings to work out a final set of documents, to guide the process through the next year. A Congressional delegation, as always, is observing the talks, with senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, assigned to report back to Mr. Obama. 
 Against the backdrop of a global recession, there were signs that delegates of industrialized nations wanted to back away from ambitious emission reduction targets that had been discussed last year, based on research by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
 Under the panel's scenarios, industrialized countries would have to reduce emissions by 25 to 40 percent by 2020 to set the world on a track to avert disastrous warming, numbers that went in and out of the draft proposal over the course of Wednesday. Countries like Italy have suggested they might have a hard time meeting previous emissions reductions goals in the current economic climate. 
 In addition, a group of developing countries called the G-77 complained that their proposals to help poor countries combat climate change generally fell on deaf ears. ''We got no support from developed countries whether in technology transfer or finances,'' said Tasneem Essop, of the World Wide Fund for Nature of South Africa. 
 Such hopes and frustrations presaged great pressure on the new American administration. Said Jake Schmidt of the Natural Resources Defense Council, who participated in a panel discussion here: ''Clearly one of the major stumbling blocks has been a lack of leadership at the U.S. level, and that's about to change,'' he said. 
 But the incoming Obama administration is currently weighing its options, including whether there should be a climate czar, or cabinet-level environment position, said a person who is familiar with the transition.
 Domestically, the person said, the administration is looking toward a three-pronged approach. First there is a stimulus package that will include ''green'' initiatives like retrofitting buildings with better insulation. Then there is an energy bill that will include components like new fuel standards and tax breaks for investments in environmental technology and renewable energy. 
 Finally, there is the cap-and-trade system, in which companies are assigned emissions limits and must effectively buy permits to exceed them. 
 Dirk Forrister, the chairman of the White House Climate Change Task Force under the Clinton administration, said such a complicated program probably could not become operational before 2014. 
 Tim Wirth, head of the United Nations Foundation, based in Washington, said that finalizing a new climate program would take time, but that the new administration should immediately start creating the ''building blocks'' -- forging agreements with countries like China to cooperate on energy efficiency. 
 ''Everybody is waiting for the U.S. cavalry to come over the ridge,'' he said. ''We're a major component but not the only component.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Human-shaped ice sculptures with slogans about helping the climate greeted delegates to a climate conference in Poznan, Poland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WOJTEK RADWANSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (74%); COAL MINING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); POLAND (90%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



396 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: The Pause That Depresses

BYLINE: By JOHN MILTON COOPER Jr.. 
John Milton Cooper Jr., a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin, is writing a biography of Woodrow Wilson.

DATELINE: Madison, Wis. 

 BODY:
 THE three-month ''interregnum'' between Barack Obama's election and George W. Bush's last day in office makes one long for a parliamentary system, where the defeated prime minister leaves and his successor takes over at once. As the country faces the worst economic collapse since the Great Depression, you might think that it's too bad it can't happen here -- but once it almost did, during another time of crisis.
 In 1916, with the United States on the brink of entering World War I, Woodrow Wilson seemed likely to lose his bid for re-election. Despite a spectacular record of domestic legislation (establishing the Federal Reserve, the Federal Trade Commission and a graduated income tax, among other successes), the president was bound by the hard facts of political geography. 
 In those days, Wilson's Democratic Party held the South and the interior West, but the Republicans controlled the Northeast and Midwest -- which supplied them with a reliable majority in the Electoral College and control of Congress. The election that year was eerily similar to the 2000 race, with everything hanging on a recount in a single swing state, California. The result remained in doubt for nearly two weeks.
 The precarious state of relations with the nations at war in Europe, particularly Germany, made Wilson fear for national security in the event of an interregnum -- which then, before the ratification of the 20th Amendment in 1933, lasted more than a month longer than it does today. A former professor of political science who had studied and admired parliamentary systems, Wilson decided upon a drastic plan to shorten this uneasy period. 
 Two days before the election he had a sealed letter, which he had typed himself, hand-delivered to the secretary of state, who was then third in line of succession to the presidency. Wilson wrote that if he lost he would immediately appoint his Republican opponent, Charles Evans Hughes, secretary of state, and then he and his vice president would resign, making Hughes president at once. Wilson said he was proposing this plan because those were not ''ordinary times'' and ''no such critical circumstances in regard to our foreign policy have ever existed before.''
 But Wilson won California, by just 3,806 votes, and he stayed in office to lead the United States into World War I and make peace afterward. His plan for a shortened interregnum never saw the light of day.
 The only other people who even knew what he'd proposed were his wife and the secretary of state, Robert Lansing, who first revealed it in his posthumously published memoirs in 1935. The revelation came too late to save the country from what has been called ''the interregnum of despair'' between Franklin Roosevelt's election in November 1932 and Herbert Hoover's departure from office on March 4, 1933. Hoover had served under Wilson and admired him, and he might have adopted this plan if he had known about it.
 Our current interregnum and its predecessor in 1933 have not been the only peril-filled transfers of power in our history -- 1861 was the scariest of them all -- and there ought to be a way to avoid or at least shorten such anxious passages. It is worth asking whether Woodrow Wilson's idea could be wisely applied now. 
 The present law of succession appears to rule it out because the speaker of the House, not the secretary of state, is now third in line. But this line of succession is not graven in stone, much less embedded in the Constitution. Congress has changed it several times, most notably at the end of World War II, when the succession shifted to include more elected officials, but as recently as 2005, when Congress designated the secretary of homeland security as 18th in line. In fact, it is not even necessary to change the order, only to add a provision -- a version of Wilson's plan -- allowing a president to resign after a successor is elected and have that successor take office immediately. 
 There's no risk this would become standard practice, because outgoing presidents rarely want to leave before their terms expire. But we still need a procedure for the quicker transition of power in troubled times like these.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUBA LUKOVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WORLD WAR I (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (83%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); GEOGRAPHY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (58%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



397 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: Pipe Dreams And Profits

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and JAD MOUAWAD; Jad Mouawad reported from New York and Paul Geitner from Paris.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
The European Union started with a high-minded ecological goal: encouraging companies to cut their greenhouse gases by making them pay for each ton of carbon dioxide they emitted into the atmosphere.
 But that plan unleashed a lobbying free-for-all that led politicians to dole out favors to various industries, undermining the environmental goals. Four years later, it is becoming clear that system has so far produced little noticeable benefit to the climate -- but generated a multibillion-dollar windfall for some of the Continent's biggest polluters. 
 As President-elect Barack Obama considers how to curb the gases that contribute to global warming, Europe's struggle with the problem illustrates the momentous task ahead for the United States.
 European politicians, who acknowledge that their system got off to a rocky start, contend that after an initial experimental phase that lasted from 2005 to 2007, the system has improved. But some outside analysts doubt Europe can achieve its lofty goals. 
 The original European plan called for issuing a restricted number of permits to emit carbon dioxide, the main gas that contributes to global warming, then creating a market in which they could be freely traded. If a company produced more gas than its permits allowed, it would be penalized by having to buy more; if it managed to reduce emissions by switching to cleaner fuels or technologies, it would be able to sell its permits to polluting companies. The marketplace would set the price.
 In the United States, a similar market approach is credited with reducing acid rain, another environmental problem. The system encourages efficiency and innovation by rewarding companies that can cut the most pollution at the lowest cost.
 But global warming is a far larger, more complicated problem than acid rain, and setting up a workable market in Europe has proved to be difficult and contentious. As the incoming Obama administration contemplates creation of an American market, Washington has already seen the beginnings of the same lobbying frenzy that bedeviled Europe.
 Beseeched by giant utilities and smokestack industries that feared for their competitiveness, the European Union scrapped the idea of forcing industries to buy their permits, with the money going to public coffers. Instead, governments gave out the vast majority of the permits for nothing, in such quantity that the market nearly collapsed. The basic question of whether to sell permits, give them away or do some of both has yet to be resolved in the United States.
 ''Everybody will fight their own corner,'' said Nicholas Stern, a British economist, who recommended that the United States charge for a substantial number of permits rather than dole them all out as the Europeans have. ''That's why it's so important to have a clear conception from the start, to start off with a clear strategy.''
 After the initial crash, Europe tightened its system and issued new permits, and they have acquired substantial value. Nearly $80 billion will change hands in 2008 on the European emissions market, making it by far the world's largest, according to estimates by Andreas Arvanitakis, an analyst at Point Carbon, a research firm.
 Much of the cost of the European system is being paid by the public in the price of goods and services, including higher electricity bills, but whether the money is doing any good is an open question. The amount of carbon dioxide emitted by plants and factories participating in the system has not fallen. Their emissions rose 0.4 percent in 2006 and another 0.7 percent in 2007. 
 Meanwhile, a series of disputes has erupted about the way companies are carrying out the system.
 A German Example
 The case of Germany, Europe's largest economy, illustrates the many problems in Europe's approach. For instance, RWE, a major German power company and Europe's largest carbon emitter, received a windfall of about $6.4 billion in the first three years of the system, according to analyst estimates. Regulators in that country have accused utilities of charging customers for far more permits than was allowable.
 This week, leaders of the European Union are meeting in Brussels to shape the next phase of their system, and find ways to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020. They also seek to close loopholes worth billions to various industries, while confronting the same tug of war between long-term environmental goals and short-term costs that proved so vexing the first time around. 
 The European summit meeting coincides with a round of negotiations among 190 nations to establish a new global treaty limiting greenhouse emissions, a treaty the Obama administration might seek to join.
 Pressure From Lobbyists
 During long negotiations on the landmark Kyoto climate treaty more than a decade ago, the Clinton administration pushed to include emissions trading as a means of achieving the goals, favoring that approach over energy taxes or traditional regulatory limits on emissions. 
 Even after the Americans backed out of ratifying Kyoto, Europe decided to set up the world's first large, mandatory carbon-trading market. ''I was eager to put it in place as soon as possible,'' said Margot Wallstrom, the European Union's environment commissioner then.
 From the start, Ms. Wallstrom, now a vice president of the European Commission, said she was lobbied heavily by governments and by companies seeking to limit the financial burden. 
 The initial idea of charging for many of the permits never got off the ground. Many politicians feared that burdening European industries with extra costs would undercut their ability to compete in a global marketplace. In the end, the decision was made to hand out virtually all the permits free.
 With European Union oversight, individual countries were charged with setting emissions levels and distributing the permits within their borders, often to companies with strong political connections. 
 Jurgen Trittin, a former Green Party leader who was the German minister of environment from 1998 to 2005, recalled being lobbied by executives from power companies, and by politicians from the former East Germany seeking special treatment for lignite, a highly polluting soft brown coal common around central Europe.
 The framework of the European system put governments in the position of behaving like ''a grandfather with a large family deciding what to give his favorite grandchildren for Christmas,'' Mr. Trittin said in an interview.
 The debates on what limits to set for carbon dioxide emissions were particularly arduous. Mr. Trittin recalled a five-hour ''showdown'' in March 2004 with Wolfgang Clement, then the economy minister, in which he lost a battle to lower the overall limit. It was eventually set at 499 million tons a year, a reduction of only 2 million tons. 
 In a recent e-mail message, Mr. Clement did not challenge the details of his former colleague's account, but he characterized as ''just nonsense'' Mr. Trittin's claims of undue industry influence. He said the Greens were unrealistic about what could be achieved.
 ''I reproached them -- and I'm doing this still today -- that at the end of their policy there is the de-industrialization of Germany,'' Mr. Clement said. ''That's our conflict.'' 
 Eberhard Meller, the president of the Federation of German Electricity Companies, which represents companies like RWE, said, ''Good sense triumphed in the end.'' For his part, Mr. Clement eventually joined the supervisory board of RWE Power, in 2006.
 The benefits won by German industry were substantial. Under the plan that the European Union originally approved for Germany, electricity companies were supposed to receive 3 percent fewer permits than they needed to cover their total emissions between 2005 and 2007, which would have forced them to cut emissions. 
 Instead, the companies got 3 percent more than needed, according to the German Emissions Trading Authority, the regulatory agency, a windfall worth about $374 billion at the peak of the market. German lawmakers also approved exemptions and bonuses that could be combined in dozens of ways and allowed companies to gain additional permits.
 ''It was lobbying by industry, including the electricity companies, that was to blame for all these exceptional rules,'' said Hans Jurgen Nantke, the director of the German trading authority, part of the Federal Environment Agency. 
 Higher Bills Draw Inquiry
 After the system kicked off, in 2005, power consumers in Germany started to see their electrical bills increase by 5 percent a year. RWE, the power company, received 30 percent of all the permits given out, more than any other company in Germany.
 The company said its price increases from 2005 to 2007 predominantly reflected higher costs of coal and natural gas. But the company acknowledged charging its customers for the emission permits, saying that while it may have received them free from the government, they still had value in the marketplace.
 The German antitrust authority later investigated. In a confidential document sent to RWE lawyers in December 2006, that agency accused RWE of ''abusive pricing,'' piling on costs for industrial clients that were ''completely out of proportion'' to the company's economic burden, according to the document, which was obtained by The New York Times.
 Without admitting wrongdoing, RWE last year agreed to a settlement that should provide lower electricity rates to industrial customers in Germany from 2009 through 2012. 
 Meanwhile emissions have risen at RWE's German operations since the trading system began. The company emitted nearly 158 million tons of carbon dioxide in 2007, compared with 120 million tons in 2005, according to its annual reports. 
 The company said its emissions rose in part because one of its nuclear power stations, which emit no carbon dioxide, was off line for a while. 
 Jurgen Frech, the chief spokesman for RWE, said that charging customers for the carbon permits was ''beyond reproach,'' and added that the company will spend more than $1 billion this year to comply with the emissions trading system. RWE also said it is investing $41 billion over the next five years in projects including renewable energy and developing cleaner ways to generate electricity from coal mined in Germany.
 For all the problems with the European system, some experts say it is simply too early to judge whether it will succeed. As the region that went first with mandatory carbon trading, Europe was bound to make some initial mistakes, they said.
 Call It Experimental
 ''People who don't want to do anything about carbon emissions in the United States are quick to say the European system was a failure,'' said Eileen Claussen, president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change in Washington. ''But they don't understand this was an experiment to learn how to get things right.''
 Supporters of carbon trading in Europe contend that significant reductions should be achieved starting this year because limits on emissions have been tightened. But negotiations on how to meet even more ambitious targets after 2012 are in danger of coming undone as the economy worsens. 
 Poland -- which depends on coal-fired plants for 95 percent of its electricity -- has threatened to block the next phase of Europe's emissions plan unless a way is found to lessen the burden on its energy sector. Its fears echo the position of some American states that depend on coal for their electricity; they worry about huge cost increases should Congress pass a global warming bill. 
 France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, is leading the political horse-trading on Europe's new system after 2012.
 ''Europe,'' he said on Saturday in Poland, ''must be an example for others.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Billowing chimneys at a coal plant in Frimmersdorf, Germany. The country has had problems with emissions payments.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK AUGSTEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B6) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); LOBBYING (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ACID RAIN (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



398 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Automaker Rescue Passes House, But Battle Is Mounting in Senate

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and DAVID E. SANGER; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House voted on Wednesday to approve a $14 billion government rescue of the American automobile industry, but the bailout plan, which would provide emergency loans to General Motors and Chrysler, was in jeopardy because of strong Republican opposition in the Senate. 
 The House approved the rescue plan by 237 to 170, mostly along party lines, with 32 Republicans mainly from states heavily dependent on the auto industry joining 205 Democrats in supporting the measure. Voting against were 150 Republicans and 20 Democrats. 
 The White House so far has failed to generate support among Senate Republicans, who have the power to kill the bill. 
 General Motors and Chrysler have said they cannot survive much longer without the federal aid, while Ford Motor Company, which is in better shape than its competitors, has said it will not seek the emergency loans. 
 As an amendment to the auto rescue plan, the House approved a measure that would require banks receiving assistance from the Treasury's $700 billion economic stabilization program to detail new lending activity each quarter. 
 The White House chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, attended a lunch at the Capitol with Republican senators to persuade them to back the auto rescue plan but met stiff resistance. 
 Some Republican senators said the automakers should be allowed to fail. Others said the proposed oversight of the rescue by a so-called car czar was too weak. Senator George V. Voinovich, an Ohio Republican who is one of the few outspoken Republican supporters of a taxpayer-backed rescue, emerged from the lunch sounding deeply pessimistic. Mr. Voinovich said that Senate Republicans had refused to participate in negotiations with the White House because of general opposition to an auto bailout. 
 ''The leadership did not want to participate because they felt whatever came out of the negotiations, they probably wouldn't support,'' Mr. Voinovich said. He said he still intended to vote for the plan. 
 The Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, was noncommittal. The Republicans had a ''spirited'' discussion about the auto rescue plan, he said, but it was too soon to take a stand because they had just received a final draft of the bill. 
 ''Everybody's still kind of poring through it, trying to figure out exactly what it does,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''At this particular juncture, I couldn't handicap for you the level of support that may exist in our conference. But we did begin a conferencewide learning process during the course of the last hour.''
 Even some auto-state lawmakers were unhappy with the bailout plan the White House helped to design. ''While I am fighting to save Missouri auto jobs,'' said Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, ''Congress is just putting off the inevitable unless we force the companies to reform fundamentally, which this latest plan fails to do and is why I am offering changes to make it work.''
 A number of other Senate Republicans said they had every intention of scuttling a taxpayer-financed rescue for General Motors and Chrysler. 
 Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee, called the proposal ''a travesty'' and said that he would filibuster the bill. ''This is an installment on a huge bailout that will come later,'' he said. 
 Others, while critical of the legislation, suggested there was hope of a compromise. 
 Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, who was working to draft alternative legislation, said the proposal put forward by the White House and Congressional Democrats provided only weak authority for the car czar, who would supervise the sweeping reorganization plans that the automakers have agreed to carry out. 
 ''I have a banking staffer who can carry out the responsibilities of this so-called czar,'' Mr. Corker said. ''I mean it's a liaison. This person has no power.'' 
 Mr. Corker said the bill put forward by the Bush administration and Democrats and approved by the House would entangle the federal government in the operations of the auto companies for too long. Without substantial changes, he said, the legislation was unlikely to win passage in the Senate. 
 ''I didn't see anybody in the group who is willing to blink,'' he told reporters. An aide to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said the Democrats were trying to negotiate a deal with Mr. McConnell under which there would be several votes on measures intended to aid the auto industry including, perhaps, alternative proposals by Mr. Corker or other Republicans. 
 Some Congressional Democrats speculated that if Senate Republicans were kill the rescue plan, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson, Jr., would have no choice but to keep G.M. and Chrysler afloat, at least until the new Congress begins early next month and wider Democratic majorities are sworn into office.
 In the compromise measure that emerged from negotiations with the White House, House Democrats agreed to drop a provision to force the automakers to end their legal challenges to state emissions standards, including a lawsuit in California. 
 In the broadest sense, the House and Senate bills provide an identical government rescue of the two most imperiled automakers, G.M. and Chrysler, in the form of $14 billion in emergency loans. In exchange for the loans, the auto manufacturers would have to submit to strict government oversight and carry out sweeping reorganization plans. 
 G.M. has not said how it will respond if the federal loans are not forthcoming. It is spending more than $2 billion in cash each month, and is close to falling below the minimum level of cash needed to operate.
 Without immediate federal assistance, G.M. would be in danger of not paying its suppliers, employees and creditors, and could miss interest payments on its outstanding debt. Failure to pay creditors, for example, could result in legal actions leading to a forced bankruptcy filing.
 ''I wouldn't like to speculate what would unfold, but suffice it to say the survival of the company as we know it would be highly questionable if we don't get some bridge loan,'' G.M.'s vice chairman, Robert Lutz, said in an interview on Monday.
 The bill would also give the government warrants to take an equity stake in the automakers. It would limit executive pay, bar golden-parachute severance packages and prohibit the paying of shareholder dividends while the emergency government loans were outstanding. 
 The bill would require the companies and their stakeholders, including creditors, labor unions and dealers to agree on sweeping reorganization plans that would lead to long-term financial viability. If they failed to agree, the auto czar would be able to impose a plan, and could also force the companies into bankruptcy if they failed to meet requirements. 
 The plan seeks to save the auto industry from what one senior White House official called ''30 years of slow suicide.''
 The bill sets a March 31 deadline for the automakers to produce long-term viability plans, but it is not certain how the auto czar would determine viability. Joel Kaplan, the deputy White House chief of staff, said that ''simply stated, it's that the firm will have a positive value going forward when you take into account all of its costs.'' 
 Those costs include health care, pensions, salaries and research and development on new technologies, and depending on how they are accounted for, the companies -- or the auto czar -- could potentially tinker with the meaning of ''viable.'' Mr. Kaplan said the White House goal was ''a bridge to either fundamental restructuring, or bankruptcy.''
 The bill would require the automakers to seek permission from the auto czar for any business transaction of $100 million or more. Congressional Democrats said that provision was intended specifically to prevent the companies from taking any steps that would result in American manufacturing jobs moving overseas. 
 But with overseas markets presenting better profit opportunities for the automakers these days, the Democrats' political goal of preserving jobs, and the overarching goal of the rescue legislation -- to return the automakers to profitability -- could be at odds, with the companies discouraged from seeking the most profitable markets. 
 The House-approved auto bailout measure would also grant federal judges a cost-of-living increase and would provide federal guarantees for financial deals that some major transit agencies are in danger of defaulting on in part because of the credit crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Republican senators opposed to the bill: from left, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, Richard Shelby of Alabama, John Ensign of Nevada, David Vitter of Louisiana and Jim DeMint of South Carolina.
The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, center, was noncommittal toward the auto rescue plan
 with him were Senators Jon Kyl, left, of Arizona and John Cornyn of Texas.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (79%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (78%); JOHN ENSIGN (74%); JOHN CORNYN (74%); RICHARD SHELBY (74%); JON KYL (59%); KIT BOND (59%); TOM COBURN (59%); JIM DEMINT (58%); DAVID VITTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



399 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Obama's 'Secretary Of Food'?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
As Barack Obama ponders whom to pick as agriculture secretary, he should reframe the question. What he needs is actually a bold reformer in a position renamed ''secretary of food.''
 A Department of Agriculture made sense 100 years ago when 35 percent of Americans engaged in farming. But today, fewer than 2 percent are farmers. In contrast, 100 percent of Americans eat.
 Renaming the department would signal that Mr. Obama seeks to move away from a bankrupt structure of factory farming that squanders energy, exacerbates climate change and makes Americans unhealthy -- all while costing taxpayers billions of dollars. 
 ''We're subsidizing the least healthy calories in the supermarket -- high fructose corn syrup and hydrogenated soy oil, and we're doing very little for farmers trying to grow real food,'' notes Michael Pollan, author of such books as ''The Omnivore's Dilemma'' and ''In Defense of Food.''
 The Agriculture Department -- and the agriculture committees in Congress -- have traditionally been handed over to industrial farming interests by Democrats and Republicans alike. The farm lobby uses that perch to inflict unhealthy food on American children in school-lunch programs, exacerbating our national crisis with diabetes and obesity.
 But let's be clear. The problem isn't farmers. It's the farm lobby -- hijacked by industrial operators -- and a bipartisan tradition of kowtowing to it. 
 I grew up on a farm in Yamhill, Ore., where my family grew cherries and timber and raised sheep and, at times, small numbers of cattle, hogs and geese. One of my regrets is that my kids don't have the chance to grow up on a farm as well.
 Yet the Agriculture Department doesn't support rural towns like Yamhill; it bolsters industrial operations that have lobbying clout. The result is that family farms have to sell out to larger operators, undermining small towns.
 One measure of the absurdity of the system: Every year you, the American taxpayer, send me a check for $588 in exchange for me not growing crops on timberland I own in Oregon (I forward the money to a charity). That's right. The Agriculture Department pays a New York journalist not to grow crops in a forest in Oregon.
 Modern confinement operations are less like farms than like meat assembly lines. They are dazzlingly efficient in some ways, but they use vast amounts of grain, as well as low-level antibiotics to reduce infections -- and the result is a public health threat from antibiotic-resistant infections. 
 An industrial farm with 5,000 hogs produces as much waste as a town with 20,000 people. But while the town is required to have a sewage system, the industrial farm isn't.
 ''They look profitable because we're paying for their wastes,'' notes Robert P. Martin, executive director of the Pew Commission on Industrial Farm Animal Production. ''And then there's the cost of antibiotic resistance to the economy as a whole.''
 One study suggests that these large operations receive, in effect, a $24 subsidy for each hog raised. We face an obesity crisis and a budget crisis, and we subsidize bacon?
 The need for change is increasingly obvious, for health, climate and even humanitarian reasons. California voters last month passed a landmark referendum (over the farm lobby's furious protests) that will require factory farms to give minimum amounts of space to poultry and livestock. Society is becoming concerned not only with little boys who abuse cats but also with tycoons whose business model is abusing farm animals.
 An online petition that can be found at www.fooddemocracynow.org calls for a reformist pick for agriculture secretary -- and names six terrific candidates, such as Chuck Hassebrook, a reformer in Nebraska. On several occasions in the campaign, Mr. Obama made comments showing a deep understanding of food issues, but the names that people in the food industry say are under consideration for agriculture secretary represent the problem more than the solution.
 Change we can believe in?
 The most powerful signal Mr. Obama could send would be to name a reformer to a renamed position. A former secretary of agriculture, John Block, said publicly the other day that the agency should be renamed ''the Department of Food, Agriculture and Forestry.'' And another, Ann Veneman, told me that she believes it should be renamed, ''Department of Food and Agriculture.'' I'd prefer to see simply ''Department of Food,'' giving primacy to America's 300 million eaters.
 As Mr. Pollan told me: ''Even if you don't think agriculture is a high priority, given all the other problems we face, we're not going to make progress on the issues Obama campaigned on -- health care, climate change and energy independence -- unless we reform agriculture.''
 Your move, Mr. President-elect. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FACTORY FARMS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (73%); WRITERS (73%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); OBESITY (72%); CHILDREN (71%); CHARITIES (70%); ANTIBIOTICS (62%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%); DIABETES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008



400 of 1088 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA TEAM SET ON ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President-elect Barack Obama has selected his top energy and environmental advisers, including a Nobel Prize-winning physicist and the former head of the Environmental Protection Agency, presidential transition officials said Wednesday.
 Collectively, they will have the task of carrying out Mr. Obama's stated intent to curb global warming emissions drastically while fashioning a more efficient national energy system. And they will be able to work with strong allies in Congress who are interested in developing climate-change legislation, despite fierce economic headwinds that will amplify objections from manufacturers and energy producers. 
 The officials said Mr. Obama would name Steven Chu, the director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, as his energy secretary, and Nancy Sutley, deputy mayor of Los Angeles for energy and environment, as head of the White House Council on Environmental Quality. Mr. Obama also appears ready to name Carol M. Browner, the E.P.A. administrator under President Bill Clinton, as the top White House official on climate and energy policy and Lisa P. Jackson, New Jersey's commissioner of environmental protection, as the head of the E.P.A. 
 Aides cautioned that while Mr. Obama appeared to favor Ms. Browner for the new White House post, there were still issues to be resolved before the appointment was formalized. Mr. Obama plans to name the environmental team next week in Chicago, aides said.
 If named to the White House climate post, Ms. Browner, an acolyte of former Vice President Al Gore, will have forceful support in the new Congress, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, who will be the new chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Senator Barbara Boxer of California, who is returning as chairwoman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. Opposing their efforts will be many Republicans and some Democrats, as well as manufacturers, utilities, oil companies and coal producers who will bear the brunt of the costs of any steps to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, the main culprit in global warming.
 In the coming months, the administration will also have to devise a strategy for dealing with global talks to address climate change, which are already under way.
 In addition, both Ms. Browner and Ms. Jackson, who have strong reputations for regulating industry, will be under pressure to revisit and overturn many of the clean-air rules and other regulations imposed during the Bush administration over the objections of environmentalists. 
 Mr. Obama has promised to spend liberally to finance infrastructure projects and support so-called green technologies that will create jobs while benefiting the environment. These officials will work with Mr. Obama's economic advisers to try to find -- and finance -- projects that accomplish these goals.
 It was not immediately clear how responsibilities for managing climate change, technological innovation and huge energy infrastructure spending will be divided among them.
 Dr. Chu will be taking on one of the most challenging jobs in government at the Department of Energy. He will be responsible for the maintenance and development of the nation's nuclear weapons stockpile, as well as for modernizing the nation's electrical power delivery system.
 He will also play a central role in directing the research and development of alternative energy sources needed to replace fossil fuels in a era of constrained carbon emissions. Mr. Chu shared a Nobel Prize in physics in 1997 for work on supercooled atoms.
 At the Lawrence Berkeley laboratory, he has sponsored research into biofuels and solar energy and has been a strong advocate of controlling greenhouse gas emissions. 
 Scott Segal, director of the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, an industry group, said he was pleased that Dr. Chu had the technical expertise to realistically assess future energy technologies.
 ''His experience seems to dovetail perfectly with the president-elect's commitment to bringing new energy technology to market in a timely fashion,'' Mr. Segal said. ''An understanding of the art of the possible in energy technology will be critical to the development of a cost-effective climate change policy.''
 Although the scope of Ms. Browner's job at the White House is still under discussion, aides said that if appointed she would coordinate administration policy across departmental lines and advocate for Mr. Obama's energy and environmental policies on Capitol Hill. It was not clear on Wednesday whether her office would carry the bureaucratic clout of the National Security Council or the National Economic Council.
 Before coming to Washington to head Mr. Clinton's E.P.A., Ms. Browner was Florida's top environmental officer. Since leaving government at the end of the Clinton administration, she has been a partner in an international consulting business with Madeleine K. Albright, Mr. Clinton's second-term secretary of state. Among her clients at the Albright Group was a Dubai-based port operator that sought a contract to manage American ports. The deal fell apart amid heated Congressional criticism.
 Ms. Browner, a lawyer, is well known in Washington and around the country as a forceful environmental advocate and experienced capital player. She is married to Tom Downey. a former New York congressman.
 ''She was a really strong administrator in really tough times,'' said Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an environmental group. 
 Ms. Jackson has been the head of New Jersey's Department of Environmental Protection since 2006, but in October, Gov. Jon S. Corzine announced that she would become his chief of staff starting this month. She has a master's degree in chemical engineering from Princeton and spent 16 years at the federal E.P.A. as a top enforcement officer in Washington and New York. 
 She has led the Obama transition team at E.P.A. and knows the agency inside and out, according to associates.
 S. William Becker, executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies, which represents state environmental bodies, said Ms. Jackson was among the most respected state environmental officials.
 ''Her state experience allows her to know what works and what doesn't work on the ground,'' said Mr. Becker, who is not related to Dan Becker. ''I also am glad to see they chose an engineer to run E.P.A. The typical choice is an attorney.''
 Ms. Sutley, who will direct the Council on Environmental Quality, is now the top environmental adviser to the mayor of Los Angeles, Antonio R. Villaraigosa. She has years of experience in managing water supplies and water quality in California and has also worked on energy-saving construction rules for the City of Los Angeles.
 She was a special assistant to Ms. Browner at the E.P.A. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about President-elect Barack Obama's selection of his energy and environmental advisers misstated, in some editions, the year that his nominee for energy secretary, Steven Chu, shared a Nobel prize in physics. It was in 1997, not 1977.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carol M. Browner, center top, ex-E.P.A. chief, is favored for a climate post. Steven Chu, a physicist, is in line for energy secretary. Lisa P. Jackson, a New Jersey official, is to head the E.P.A. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROL T. POWERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BEN MARGOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (70%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); CAROL BROWNER (90%); STEVEN CHU (79%); LISA P JACKSON (78%); AL GORE (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); BARBARA BOXER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

 
