

401 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Bad Economy Leads Iranians to Seek Fortune in Supernatural

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Rojan spread the tarot cards swiftly on a prayer mat. ''In the name of God,'' she said as she began carefully switching their places. ''There is a lot of energy in this room.''
 Incense burned next to her, and a dim red light, along with red curtains, made the room feel cozy. Taking deep breaths, Rojan, who uses only her first name, said, ''Tonight the spirits of the dead are free, and I can feel their presence in this room.'' 
 ''I see you in a court,'' she said to Lili, a 35-year-old, who often goes to fortunetellers with her friends. ''You have a legal problem.'' 
 Lili asked impatiently, ''Will I win?'' 
 More than half a dozen women were sitting in Rojan's house, sipping tea and waiting to have their fortune told for 50,000 rials, or about $6. 
 ''Whenever I feel I have reached a dead end, I go see a fortuneteller,'' said Maryam Chehrehgosha, a 25-year-old English teacher. This time she came to see what would happen to her relationship with her new boyfriend, who has promised to marry her and take her to the United States. 
 A bad economy means scarce jobs and low incomes, which in turn have led to emotional and social frustration among Iran's largely young population. As a result, different forms of fortunetelling and the desire to connect with the supernatural to seek help from a divinity are growing. Many of those seeking guidance are women. 
 Bookstores are filled with books on Chinese and Indian astrology and different forms of fortunetelling. Newspapers and journals have dedicated more space to horoscopes and articles about how to find a soul mate. 
 ''These types of books have increased by at least five times since the beginning of the revolution,'' said Abolhassan Azarang, a researcher at Iran's Encyclopedia. 
 ''Political and social deadlocks have forced a special class of society to turn to these kinds of beliefs,'' he added. 
 In December, the police arrested a woman accused of making a fortune by promising to solve the problems of more than 5,000 women by giving them spells. The woman, whose identity was not revealed, told her customers that she was clairvoyant and had learned the skill in India.
 One of the complainants against her was a woman who had paid five million rials, about $630, in return for a spell that would magically put an end to her husband's marriage to a second wife. 
 Those who are more traditional, however, turn to the Koran or Divan of Hafiz, a 14th-century Iranian poet.
 More secular people randomly open the book of poetry after saying their wish and a prayer for Hafiz. Hafiz's rich poetry and wise guidance are interpreted in accordance with one's wish. 
 Beggars selling envelopes with two lines of the poetry and an interpretation for about $1 are common on the streets of most cities in Iran. Sometimes, they use a bird that picks the envelope for the customer.
 More religious people do the same thing with the Koran. Azar Fazli, 62, said she had never bought or sold a property without opening the Koran first. When her two daughters were getting married, she asked the Koran whether they had made the right decision. It indicated that they had. 
 A tabloid known as Navay-e-Iran, meaning the music of Iran, is the nation's most popular weekly, with a circulation of 33,000. It features a cleric who answers questions about a creature known as a jinni, or genie, and decides whether callers have found their soul mates. Jinnis have roots in the Koran, and according to Islamic legends they are demons, lower than angels, who assume human or animal shapes and live in many households. 
 ''Jinnis wear long and narrow hats,'' the cleric Mohammad Mehdi Hosseini said in one of the issues of the paper. ''They are from 70 tribes and can speak Turkish, Persian, Arabic and English.''
 He also prescribes special prayers for people to solve their problems. He advised a woman who said her husband was cranky at home and beat her to write a prayer early in the morning and hide it in the house. He also told her to write another prayer on a piece of cloth and tie it to her right arm.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rojan, a fortuneteller, gave a reading at her home in Tehran late last year. Women lined up last week to pay her $6 to tell their fortunes. (Photo by Newsha Tavakolian/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (93%); RELIGION (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WOMEN (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (69%); WRITERS (68%); BOOKSTORES (63%); HOROSCOPES (63%); POETRY (60%); ARRESTS (60%) Psychics and Psychic Phenomena; Koran; Astrology; Fortune Telling; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Koran; Islam; Psychics and Psychic Phenomena

PERSON: Nazila Fathi; Shams Al-Din Muhammad Hafiz

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (69%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (69%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



402 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Why 'New Urbanism' Isn't for Everyone

BYLINE: By ROBERT JOHNSON

 BODY:
DALE BORDERS is shopping for a home in Orlando, Fla., and he's unabashedly enthusiastic about joining the area's suburban sprawl. 
 Not that the father of five hasn't been enlightened about life in so-called new urban neighborhoods, which tout pedestrian-friendly, close-knit mixes of houses, apartments, parks and stores. Many of the houses feature large front porches and have rear alleys that lead to detached garages. All this is supposed to hark back to a simpler time -- and a better one. 
 But that holds no appeal at all for Mr. Borders, 30, a self-employed salesman of business promotional items who recently fled the winters of Boston.
 ''We want to spread out and do our thing,'' he said. ''We want a big backyard and a swimming pool.'' New urbanism's sales pitch that residents can walk to the market or doctor's office isn't for him. ''Walk everywhere with five kids? I don't think so,'' he added.
 Although new urban communities are relatively hot sellers in some areas, new urbanism in its purest form remains essentially an idealistic model that does not appeal to the vast majority of buyers. 
 Building industry estimates put the share of such homes at up to 10 percent of all new homes sold annually, depending on how these communities are defined. (Some planned communities contain new urban sections interspersed with standard suburban tracts.) 
 This reality falls short of the predictions of some green-minded land planners that new urbanism would transform suburban sprawl into more compact, livable communities. Suburbia, where the internal-combustion engine is king and the garage its castle, is seen by many land planners as a gas-wasting, fume-choked mess where the desolation is broken only by patches of high-maintenance grass and ornamental plants.
 In the view of new urbanists, a better vision was unveiled in 1981 on North Florida's Gulf Coast in then-sparsely populated Walton County, with the 80-acre community called Seaside by the developer Robert Davis and the husband-and-wife architects Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk. Lauded by architectural critics, it has since evolved into a vacation spot with few full-time residents. Some real estate industry consultants say that's partly because vacationers, especially at the beach, are happy to walk a bit more than normal.
 But when it comes to the mass market, and the hard facts of full-time living, most home buyers still aren't willing to part with their auto-oriented lifestyle. 
 Lewis Goodkin, a real estate researcher in Miami who advises developers across the Sunbelt, endorses new urbanism in theory but doubts that it will work as well in practice. ''We're seeing that there's a limit to how much walking a lot of people are willing to do,'' he said. ''Most aren't going to trudge through the rain, or even heat and humidity, to the grocery store and lug back a heavy bag.''
 What's more, there's little evidence that the vast majority of American drivers are ready to give up their cars, says Gopal Ahluwalia, an economist at the National Association of Home Builders in Washington, whose members include advocates of both new urban communities and car-happy subdivisions. ''While new urban communities look good and have some wonderful features, they're more popular with architects and designers than they are with potential buyers,'' he said.
 The association's research shows that less than 20 percent of consumers want to live in an urban setting. ''Most are trying to get away from urban density,'' Mr. Ahluwalia said, ''and getting away means the suburbs with big lots, plenty of room between houses and cul-de-sacs to reduce traffic.''
 The barriers to changing the view of the suburbs have not deterred Charles Brewer, an Internet entrepreneur who has become a developer. ''I have thought of most developers as destroyers; I really don't like what they have done,'' said Mr. Brewer, who founded Mindspring Enterprises, an Internet service provider, and then merged it with Earthlink in a $1.7 billion stock swap. Mr. Brewer, 46, has invested $8 million in starting a 28-acre new urban community called Glenwood Park in a formerly commercial area near downtown Atlanta. 
 Like other critics of traditional suburban design, he dislikes dead-end streets because they ''breed congestion and inhibit a sociable atmosphere,'' just as he dislikes garages that face streets at the end of long driveways. They just add pavement and put ''all the emphasis on cars,'' said Mr. Brewer, who rides a bicycle on the short commute to his Atlanta office.
 In his mind, the better alternative would be Glenwood Park's mix of retail space on the ground floor of four-story or five-story buildings that have apartments located above, flanked by town houses and a few nearby single-family dwellings; about 400 living units in all. The homes are selling well, he says, and the community will be fully occupied sometime in 2006. Prices range from $150,000 to $700,000. The kind of buyer outlook that these developers are counting on is epitomized by Shirley Johnson, 55, of Okeechobee, who recently retired from the bail bonds business and bought a town house in Orlando's Avalon Park, a new urban community. ''It has a real neighborhood feel to it: a small bank, little delis and a farmers' market open every Saturday with fresh fruits and vegetables,'' said Mrs. Johnson, who is buying the home for herself and her husband, Daniel. 
 Moving from a semirural area where she had to drive almost everywhere, Mrs. Johnson says she's looking forward to strolling, meeting her neighbors and enjoying the convenience of not having to drive for much of her shopping and other personal business. ''And it's real cute,'' she said of her $210,000 home and the Avalon Park environment. Still, she's keeping her options open: her town house has a two-car garage and Mrs. Johnson isn't selling her 2002 Jaguar.
 The reluctance of Avalon Park residents to give up their cars underscores the limits of new urbanism. As their numbers grow and more are built away from urban cores, they're becoming suburbanized.
 ''The American dream house is typically located about an 8- to 10-minute drive from schools and places where we do errands, but not many people want the bank or the grocery store practically in their backyards,'' said Gail Rocca, an Orlando real estate agent at HomeJoy Real Estate, retained by Mr. Borders.
 Sherry McMurtrie, an agent for Re/Max Properties in Orlando, said that clients shopping for homes inquire about new urban neighborhoods far more often than they actually locate in one. They often opt for typical suburbia because they want a lot big enough for a swimming pool, and for privacy. Clients relocating from the Northeast sometimes tell her, ''I don't want a 'sugar house,'' a home where a neighbor can reach from her own window to theirs to borrow a cup of sugar.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ON THE URBANISM SIDE -- Charles Brewer, left, is a developer of the Glenwood Park community in Atlanta, above. Shirley Johnson, below, bought a home in Orlando. (Photographs by Tami Chappell for the New York Times)
 (Photo by Gary Bogdon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); BEACHES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%) Housing; Urban Areas; Suburbs; Land Use Policies

PERSON: Robert Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



403 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: Back Into the Shadows

BYLINE: By TERRY GOLWAY

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
AS Witherspoon Street crosses Paul Robeson Place, it noticeably narrows, and the coffee shops, cafes and bookstores of downtown Princeton give way to multifamily frame buildings that have the look of converted boardinghouses. It is not the Princeton of postcard charm and understated elegance.
 On a recent day, a frigid wind was softened by the whisper of Latin music from one of those frame homes. The sidewalks were deserted -- oddly so -- except for a few pedestrians who walked gingerly along a slippery sidewalk toward Pelusa Travel Agency or Alicia's Restaurant, two favorite local gathering places. Only blocks away, wide, proud Witherspoon Street was busy with strollers and shoppers wearing colorful scarves and formidable hats.
 These days, the Hispanic immigrants who live on one side of Paul Robeson Place but work on the other believe they have reason to keep a low profile. Several months ago, agents from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- an arm of the Department of Homeland Security -- raided an apartment building on Witherspoon Street and arrested eight immigrants. Like many others in the John Witherspoon neighborhood, they were suspected of being in the country illegally. 
 The incident in Princeton was one of dozens of raids carried out over the past 10 months in Mercer County in which scores of illegal immigrants were seized and taken to a federal facility in Elizabeth or several county jails while awaiting deportation. There have also been raids in West Windsor, Hightstown and Trenton. 
 Carol Chandler, an immigration lawyer who is representing about 30 of the detainees, said one family was deported to Guatemala within days of being seized. 
 In this current wave, according to lawyers familiar withj the cases, federal agents seem to have primarily targeted Guatemalans who applied for and were denied political asylum more than a decade ago, when their country was wracked by civil war. 
 ''That's the irony,'' said Maria Juega of the Latin American Legal Defense and Education Fund, which is based in Princeton. ''These are people who tried to do the right thing by trying to gain legal status. They waited for 10 years or more in some cases, and now they're being told, 'Well, things are better now in your country . You have to drop your life here and go back.'''
 Two of the most recent arrests took place on Feb. 12 in Trenton, where four men -- three from Guatemala and one from Honduras -- were taken into custody after two early morning raids. Several days earlier, another raid led to the arrest of three Ecuadoreans in Hightstown.
 According to advocates familiar with the case, the agents in Hightstown were looking for a specific person, but detained the three Ecuadoreans after learning that they were undocumented. 
 In the aftermath of the crackdown, community activists, civil libertarians, immigrant advocates, social workers and some politicians are questioning the focus on Mercer County and the timing of the raids.
 ''We don't know the agenda, but there definitely is a pattern here,'' said Rachel Adler, coordinator of an immigrant advocacy group in Trenton. 
 Moreover, advocates for the immigrants say, the government's actions are driving illegal immigrants further underground. As a result, they say, the immigrants are being left open to exploitation by thieves who see them as ripe targets because of their fear of the police.
 ''The raids have had a chilling effect in the community,'' said Juan Martinez of Trenton, who heads an organization called People for the Revitalization of the South Ward. ''After there is a raid, nobody goes to work and nobody sends their children to school. They're afraid, and this is a problem.'' 
 The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement -- which has a policy of not commenting on individual arrests -- did not return several calls inquiring about the raids.
 Activists like Mr. Martinez, along with immigration lawyers and advocates, have called on local governments to reach out to Hispanics and withhold cooperation with federal authorities when they execute raids. Their campaign won a victory several weeks ago when Mayor Douglas H. Palmer of Trenton issued an executive order intended to protect immigrants who are seeking help from government agencies, including the police. 
 ''The order came in response to the raids in Trenton,'' said Francis Blanco, an aide to Mayor Palmer. ''We wanted to assure immigrants that if they are here, they will not be treated like third-tier citizens, that they are entitled to basic human rights.''
 Fearing that the raids threatened to ''break the bond'' between local agencies and immigrants, Ms. Blanco said, ''When that happens, communication ceases to exist, and people in the community become targets for outsiders who know that the immigrants are afraid to call the police.''
 For instance, activists say, it was no coincidence that shortly after the raid in Princeton, two Hispanics were assaulted, and that one of the victims waited a week before reporting the incident out of fear of being deported.
 The result of all these raids is a mixed message for the thousands of Hispanic immigrants, many of whom are in this country illegally. On the one hand, the raids are taking place against backdrop in which 18 states allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses. But at the same time, a bill that recently passed the House and went to the Senate would bar states from granting those privileges -- part of federal crackdown on illegal immigrants in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Moreover, relations between local and federal agencies is being strained by pending federal legislation that would require local police to enforce immigration law. Introduced in 2003, the measure -- called the Clear Law Enforcement for Criminal Alien Removal Act -- represents a major shift. Currently, local police departments are charged with enforcing criminal law, while immigrants in the country illegally are in violation of civil law.
 What is more, the legislation does not provide additional federal funds for training police in immigration law enforcement or for the hiring of additional officers to help with the increased workload. As a result, dozens of police agencies, including several in New Jersey, are on record opposing the measure, as are several civil liberties groups.
 Immigration advocates say that passage of the proposed federal legislation would worsen already frayed relations between the state's growing immigrant population and the local police. For its part, a coalition of advocates in Mercer County wants local police agencies barred from participating in immigration raids.
 ''Most police departments want to foster community policing, because they want people to trust the police,'' said Ms. Adler, an assistant professor of sociology and anthropology at the College of New Jersey who is the coordinator of a group called Immigrant Public Advocacy Coalition of Trenton. ''But when these things start to happen, people become afraid of the police.''
 Advocates and attorneys for the immigrants arrested in Mercer County say that in the latest series of raids, federal agents identified themselves as police, blurring the distinction between local and federal authorities. ''While it's true that the agents are police enforcing a certain set of laws, they are not what people in the community think of as police,'' said Tatiana Durbak, who works with immigrants through Lutheran Social Ministries of New Jersey in Trenton.
 Although local police departments do not enforce immigration law, they do play support roles during the raids, contributing to the tension between local police and the immigrant community. For example, local officers direct traffic away from the raid sites as a courtesy to their federal colleagues and to ensure public safety.
 While some police officials, like Joseph Santiago, director of the police department in Trenton, have said that local forces have played no role in federal raids, others say it is unreasonable to think that local law enforcement can remain aloof. 
 For instance, Capt. Mark Emann of Princeton Township police department said that while ''we don't want any of our residents to be apprehensive about calling the police,'' his officers ''will have to be there'' when federal agents conduct a raid. 
 ''Certain members of the community don't want us involved in these law-enforcement actions,'' Captain Emann said, ''but frankly, we have to be there just to make sure passersby are safe.'' 
 For their part, he said: ''Princeton Township police officers are not looking for undocumented individuals. We have bigger things on our plate.''
 One of those ''bigger things'' is a recent increase in gang activity at Princeton High School and John Witherspoon Middle School. After several street fights involving dozens of young blacks and Hispanics from the Princeton area last year, local police described gang violence as their top priority.
 But the two problems -- a large and now-fearful immigrant community and the outbreak of gang violence -- may be related, says Mr. Martinez.
 ''I don't know if the raids have created more disrespect between African American and Latino students, but this is something that has never happened before,'' he said. 
 But Ms. Juega, of the Latin American Legal Defense and Education Fund, who works with immigrants in Princeton, was more willing to assert the connection. ''There is a link between the raid and the increase in violence against the Latinos in our community,'' she said. ''There is no question about that. Some elements in the community feel that it's open season on Latinos.''
 As she explained: ''In Mercer County, we have gang issues among Latino young people. We want these kids to communicate with us, but if they are afraid of the police, they are not going to communicate.''
 Mr. Martinez said that his group and others have tried to reopen a dialogue with young Hispanics in Mercer County in the hope that they will not be driven underground because of the raids. ''We tell them that if they need medical services, they should not be afraid to go to the hospital,'' he said. 
 So far, he said, Mayor Palmer's executive order has helped reassure some of Trenton's immigrants that they will not be arrested if they use government services like police or hospitals. And advocates in Mercer County are pressing other local governments to follow Mayor Palmer's lead. Both Princeton Borough and Princeton Township have passed resolutions seeking to reassure immigrants that they need not fear calling local police. 
 In the meantime, lawyers and other advocates are trying to put an end to the raids, arguing that the government is targeting productive people who contribute to the local economy and who represent no threat to public safety.
 ''It's very difficult to understand why the government is focusing on people who are not a danger to the community,'' said Ryan Lilienthal, an immigration lawyer from Princeton. ''Why not focus on criminals and terrorists?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hispanic immigrants in the Princeton area who live on one side of Paul Robeson Place but work on the other believe they have reason to keep a low profile. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Raul and Rosa Herrera, above, community activists who own Pelusa Travel, speak with several jailed immigrants almost every day. Norma Garcia, below left, owns the Lupita Mexica Grocery, a popular store in Princeton among Hispanic immigrants. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); DEPORTATION (88%); BOOKSTORES (78%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (77%); REFUGEES (75%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TRAVEL AGENTS (55%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Asylum (Political)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

PERSON: Terry Golway

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) GUATEMALA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); ECUADOR (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Guatemala; New Jersey; Princeton (NJ); Guatemala

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



404 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; IN PERSON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: She Has Mat Burns Like All The Rest

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
IT was a hectic time at Dillon Gym, the sturdy, if sometimes dank, brick edifice that houses Princeton wrestling. It was the 100th anniversary weekend for the sport at Princeton and the buzz was that perhaps its most famous captain, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld (Princeton '54), might show up.
 It turned out that Mr. Rumsfeld was spending last weekend in Europe, on a diplomatic foray, not kicking back and recounting stories about his exploits on the Dillon mats as a 157-pound Tiger a half-century before. 
 Still, Audrey Pang was tingling with excitement. Princeton, to be sure, is a place where history is made by graduates like Mr. Rumsfeld, and on the playing fields as well. It is where Bill Bradley scored a couple thousand points, and is the home of the winners of the first intercollegiate football game.
 Now Ms. Pang has made a similar step at Princeton. She is the first woman to have a permanent spot on a men's wrestling team in the National Collegiate Athletic Association, according to USA Wrestling, the sport's governing body.
 ''I have had amazing support here,'' said Ms. Pang, an economics major, who will also have certificates in finance and French when she graduates this spring. ''This certainly wouldn't happen in a lot of other places.''
 Ms. Pang -- a 5-foot-6-inch, 125-pound senior -- is no freak, nor is she making some political statement with her groundbreaking status as a female wrestler on an otherwise all-male team. 
 In her native Canada, female wrestlers are not unusual on many high school and college teams. When she was growing up in the Scarborough section of Toronto, there were several high schools that had girls' teams. In the United States, on the other hand, more often than not, girls who wrestle have to go up against boys, engendering the frequent cautions about the opposite sexes touching and so forth.
 ''Although it is true, there were many more boys,'' she said of her high school days, ''so the half-dozen or so of us practiced with them, but it was not controversial at all like here.'' Actually, she said, her parents were never thrilled by her wrestling, worrying more about here sustaining an injury than anything. After all, Ms. Pang said, she was always competitive and was successful in a number of sports. For instance, she played field hockey and flag football in the fall and was a figure skater in the winter. And her best sport was swimming, where she was a freestyle sprinter and practiced year round. 
 But then in high school a history teacher who was the wrestling coach encouraged Ms. Pang her to come out for the team.
 ''I was still swimming in the winter, so that meant like 12 practice sessions of one type or another a week sometimes,'' she said. ''My parents said I could only keep wrestling if my grades were good. I guess that was motivation. I guess that's why I got into Princeton.''
 Ms. Pang continued to wrestle in women's tournaments in Canada even after she came to Princeton. She placed fourth in the nationals in the 112-pound weight class in 2003, but did not go to the nationals for the last two years, preferring instead to practice with the Princeton men's team to keep in shape.
 In fact, she never wrestled competitively for the university until this year. The coach, Michael New, approached her during the summer after learning that he would probably not have a wrestler for the 125-pound weight class, the lightest in N.C.A.A. wrestling.
 ''I was a little nervous,'' she said, ''but the coaches seemed like they wanted this to happen, so I was ready for it when we came back to school in the fall.'' 
 Since other schools, like Princeton, are often without men who can or want to make the 125-pound limit, Ms. Pang has won two matches by forfeit. She has, as she expected to, lost the rest of her matches, sometimes by early pins. She did last the entire three rounds against her opponent from Western New England College's, though she lost by a score of 14-8.
 Yet it was not until the 11th match of the season, on Feb. 5, that Ms. Pang got to wrestle on her home turf at Dillon Gym, this time against a Harvard sophomore, Robbie Preston, who was a three-time national champion at 119 pounds when he attended Blair Academy, a boarding school in Blairstown.
 ''He was going to be a tough opponent, but I had lots of friends in the stands,'' Ms. Pang said. ''A lot of them didn't know much about wrestling, so they didn't know exactly how to cheer. I just told them 'Go Audrey' was good enough.''
 Ms. Pang did respectably enough, making it through the first round against Mr. Preston before he pinned her in the second.
 Gary Abbott, a spokesman for USA Wrestling, said Ms. Pang's success is no fluke.
 ''She is the real deal,'' Mr. Abbott said. ''There have been women who wrestled one match, but Audrey is a top-flight wrestler and got her position deservedly. I don't know if she will make the next Olympics, but I wouldn't count her out.''
 To that end, Ms. Pang will be taking a job with the American Stock Exchange after graduation and work out at the New York Athletic Club, which has agreed to sponsor her amateur wrestling career. She is also going to take part at summer wrestling camp operated by Princeton University, with the hope of having her attract more girls to the sport.
 ''I had an alumnus bring her eighth grade daughter to the Harvard match,'' she said. ''She had been wrestling since fifth grade and just had a love of the sport. It was wonderful to talk to her, to hope that wrestling will be another outlet for girls here, too. There is so much strategy and strength and body training. If it is good for boys, it should be good for girls, too.''
 For his part, Mr. New is glad Ms. Pang, whom he named a team co-captain, has been around. While he has no intention of trying to start a complete women's team at Princeton, he said he would continue to be receptive to any Princeton woman who wants to participate, as long as -- like Ms. Pang -- she is ready for wrestling's rigorous training.
 ''Audrey is a great person and a good wrestler,'' he said. ''She is what Princeton is all about. Athletics and academics go together here in a unique way, and Audrey's dedication to her goals and this sport are what makes the school great.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a woman who wrestles on the Princeton men's team misidentified the winner of the first intercollegiate football game, in 1869. It was Rutgers, not Princeton. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Audrey Pang has even won twice, by forfeit. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); WRESTLING (90%); ATHLETES (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FIELD HOCKEY (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); HISTORY (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); MEN (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); WOMEN (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%) Wrestling; College Athletics

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (82%); USA WRESTLING (55%) Princeton University; National Collegiate Athletic Assn

PERSON: Andrey Pang; Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



405 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE: NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2396 words

HEADLINE: The Power Broker Yearns to Be Cool

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
DAVID M. CHILDS of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill may be the most powerful architect in New York. But not even he considers the majority of his buildings first-rate architecture.
 ''I know a lot of what I've designed is not 'A' work,'' he said recently over lunch. ''But my role was different. I wanted to raise the level of everyday development as much as I could.''
 Such self-effacing charm is typical of Mr. Childs, and it has helped him land some of the most coveted commissions in New York City. Gracious and conservatively dressed, he moves comfortably in the upper levels of New York society. And his willingness to compromise -- buttressed by well-honed political skills -- has long made him a favorite of developers, who tend to see financial interests and creative vision as incompatible. 
 But Mr. Childs is no longer content to be the pet architect of the mainstream development world: he now longs for the kind of critical recognition that has so far eluded him. Increasingly, in seeking it he has begun to position himself as a worthy rival to the more daring architects from whom he once sought to distance himself.
 This desire could be seen as a function of age. At 63, Mr. Childs has left his mark on a wide range of important projects -- from Columbus Circle to the Washington Mall -- but he has yet to create the kind of building that inspires awe or has lasting meaning. 
 His sudden conversion may also be viewed as a professional necessity. In recent years, he has had to watch as more conceptually challenging architects like Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas and Renzo Piano have risen to the top of their profession without sacrificing their creative visions. It's not just art institutions that are seeking them out; mainstream developers -- the kind of clients who have traditionally been Skidmore's bread and butter -- have come to realize that these architects can shore up the bottom line by increasing a project's value and easing it through often tricky political territory. 
 The paradox is that Mr. Childs's change of heart coincides with the most politically fraught commission of his career, the Freedom Tower at ground zero, which despite revisions is looking more and more second-rate. Its twisted glass form capped by a network of cables is clumsily conceived, and there is no reason to expect it to improve. On the contrary, disputes over who should pay for the building's public features threaten to dilute the design even further. 
 Instead of boosting Mr. Childs's reputation, the project underlines the difficulty he faces trying to polish it. Aside from tapping fresh, creative resources for Skidmore, he has to challenge its mindset, which is more about pleasing clients than about designing worthy architecture for them.

The Politician-Architect
 Mr. Childs's reputation as a political animal dates from the late 1960's, when as a recent graduate of Yale's school of architecture he was hired by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan to work on the redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington. Mr. Childs quickly found himself immersed in the city's treacherous politics waters -- he recalls at one point being asked to point out details of the project to President Richard M. Nixon as they stood on a street corner -- and he soon began cementing the social connections that in many ways would define his career.
 It was in Washington, for example, that Mr. Childs met Nathaniel Owings, a founding partner of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, who hired him to open the firm's Washington office in 1971. Owings and Moynihan became father figures of sorts for Mr. Childs, and played important roles in his later career. Mr. Childs also became close to J. Carter Brown, who was the head of the influential Fine Arts Commission, a position that Mr. Childs holds today.
 Mr. Childs's natural political skills were harnessed to an architectural agenda. At Yale, he fell under the spell of a loose-knit group of architects who were intent on dismantling the Modernist establishment that had dominated the profession for decades. Disillusioned with the orthodoxies of late Modernism, many of these architects sought to revert to a classical past, eventually embracing the historical pastiche of postmodernism.
 Mr. Childs's philosophy was reinforced in Washington, where he was often working within the conservative historical context of Pierre L'Enfant's late 18th-century Beaux-Arts master plan. Most of these early projects had more to do with preservation and urban planning than with developing an architectural vocabulary of his own. Mr. Childs is particularly proud, for example, of the Constitution Gardens at the Mall: a series of winding pedestrian pathways and pastoral gardens flanking the Lincoln Memorial's reflecting pool. (He states proudly that the gardens were influenced by Andre Le Notre's design for Versailles.)
 That grounding might well have made Mr. Childs a perfect fit for Skidmore's New York office, which he took over in 1984. By that time, the firm's growing number of offices had blurred its design identity. Meanwhile, Modernism was on the decline and the pseudo-classical references of postmodernism seemed like they might rule the profession for decades to come.
 As it turned out, Mr. Childs was never able to recapture the aura that Skidmore had in the 1950's and 60's, when it was a major force in shaping the direction of American architecture. Under Gordon Bunshaft, the firm had designed a number of landmarks of postwar Modernism, like the Lever House (1952), the Pepsi-Cola Building (1959), the Chase Manhattan Tower (1961) and the Union Carbide headquarters building (1962). These buildings succeeded in translating the aesthetics of early Modernism into a language that was palatable to corporate America. In the process, Bunshaft became the one of the most influential voices defining the architectural mainstream of cold-war-era America.
 By comparison, Mr. Childs's work in the late 1980's and 90's seemed to testify to the creative void in American corporate architecture during the so-called Postmodern era. Even the best of those buildings -- like the gargantuan Worldwide Plaza, completed in 1989 -- were overscaled and littered with superficial historical references. Typically, their only nod to context was a layer of granite cladding or a decorative crown.
 Mr. Childs had plenty of company: a decade ago, the architectural mainstream was dominated by architects who defended buildings like Worldwide Plaza as thoughtful responses to Modernism's worn-out planning strategies and as designs that were more respectful of a city's urban history. (Think of Battery Park City.)
 That approach has since largely been discredited. The best architects working today grasp that it is possible to be respectful of context and history without mimicking it; and, what's more, that mimicking the past only serves to dilute its meaning. At the same time, the kind of development corporations that once made up the bulk of Skidmore's client list are suddenly tripping over each other to hire big-name architects. 
 The benefits are obvious. The developer Frank J. Sciame, for example, would probably not have hired Santiago Calatrava to design his extravagant residential tower for downtown Manhattan if Mr. Calavatra's celebrity architect status did not add to the value of the apartments. More unsettling for Skidmore, perhaps, has been the emergence of architects like Mr. Piano, who has demonstrated that powerful work need not threaten the status quo. (Mr. Piano is now working on a new headquarters building for The New York Times Company.)
 Mr. Childs's response has been to promote his firm's younger talents like Roger Duffy, 48, and Ross Wimer, 43, who are now full partners. He likes to say that the firm's strength is rooted in the diversity of its design talent, a notion that runs counter to the firm's past but has the advantage of allowing it to be all things to all people. More recently, he has also sought to forge collaborations with architects like Mr. Gehry and Richard Meier who, in turn, have something to gain from Mr. Childs's deep political connections.
 But the process has not always gone smoothly. When Mr. Childs and Mr. Gehry collaborated on their own design for the new New York Times building, for example, it was presented as an equal partnership, but most people assumed Gehry would be the lead designer. And when the pair dropped out of the competition, it was in part because they had been unable to resolve who would control the design. More recently, Mr. Childs beat out a number of more celebrated talents -- including Christian de Portzamparc and Mr. Koolhaas -- for the commission to design a three-block-long residential-and-commercial development just south of the United Nations. But the site's developer brought in Mr. Meier to take over the design of several of the buildings. And although Mr. Childs says he invited the collaboration, there is little doubt that it will be viewed as a way of improving the quality of the overall design.
 Ultimately, though, such setbacks have as much to do with the firm's values as with Mr. Childs's talent. Mr. Childs's most promising design to date is his proposal for the new Pennsylvania Station at the old James A. Farley post office building in Midtown Manhattan. Conceived as a series of platforms that would slip underneath the existing Beaux-Arts building, allowing light to spill into the lower-level train platforms, the design draws on Mr. Childs's experience working within the historical context of Washington. Its most elegant feature -- Mr. Childs calls it the potato chip -- is a curvaceous glass and steel canopy that encloses the station's main entry lobby. 
 The station, on which construction has yet to begin, may also be the project that has the most emotional meaning for him. It will be named for Moynihan, his political mentor, and Mr. Childs becomes particularly animated when he reminisces about sketching his winning design on a napkin at the bar at the Carlyle Hotel, where Moynihan liked to stay when he was in town.
 More typical of Mr. Childs's recent output, however, is the watered-down ambitions of the recently completed Time Warner Center. Designed for the Related Companies, the project's most elegant features are its faceted glass towers, which seem to change from razor thin to bulky mass depending on your vantage point. The upper floors offer sweeping views of the Midtown skyline, and the towers' forms -- which break apart to frame the axis of 59th Street -- reflect a shrewd understanding of how a building can respond to its surroundings rather than parodying local period styles.
 But closer to the ground, Mr. Childs reverts to the kind of developer-driven formulas that made his older buildings so soulless. The polished stone facades are cold and forbidding; the curving form of the interior corridor -- intended as an echo of Columbus Circle outside -- is a weak gesture, a conventional developer's formula that lacks an intuitive understanding of how cities are experienced. (In Mr. Childs's defense, the ghastly mall, a pretentious version of a suburban shopping center that has been stacked on five floors to squeeze it into the site, was designed by Elkus/Manfredi Architects.)
 It is at ground zero that Mr. Childs will clearly leave his most lasting impact on the city, and it is there that the firm's shortcomings seem most evident. With his keen grasp of New York's political realities, Mr. Childs largely kept to the sidelines during the drawn-out competition for the design of the memorial and the master plan. He clearly understood that his best chance of landing a major commission rested with Larry A. Silverstein, the site's principal leaseholder, with whom he already had a working relationship.
 And Mr. Silverstein had something to gain from Mr. Childs: as a proven friend of developers and a sufficiently respected architect, he could lend Mr. Silverstein -- who had long been known as a low end developer -- enough cachet to survive the byzantine political process and ruthless public scrutiny.
 That Faustian bargain has worked so far. Mr. Childs is not only designing the site's most visible emblem -- the 1,776-foot-tall Freedom Tower -- but has also emerged as a powerful rival to Daniel Libeskind, the site's urban planner and a favorite of Gov. George E. Pataki's.

At Ground Zero
 Mr. Childs's political nature, in the end, may prevent him from creating the kind of building that would grant him the recognition he so deeply craves. He brought in the engineer Guy Nordenson to work on the early stages of the design, but the two split in 2003 and they have since squabbled over who is responsible for the design's most recognizable features. (Mr. Childs essentially asserts it was a collaboration; Mr. Nordenson claims it was largely his design.) In its current incarnation, the tower's twisted form, with its bulky base, seems surprisingly static. 
 Mr. Silverstein has claimed that the top portion of the tower -- whose network of cables would enclose a viewing platform and power-generating windmills -- should be considered public space and that the state should pay for it. If not, could larger design changes be in the works? ''At the moment,'' Mr. Silverstein said, ''we're in a vacuum in regard to that part of the building.'' Ultimately, what is now a ''B'' design -- to use Mr. Childs's language -- could become a ''C'' building. 
 Architecture is the art of balancing values: economic, aesthetic, public, private. It always involves compromise, and few architects would deny that the client's desires take precedence. But the best architects understand that they also have an obligation to the public welfare, no matter who is paying their bills. That often means investing time in educating clients rather than simply acceding to their desires.
 In a way, Mr. Childs may be a prisoner of his past. He has always operated on the assumption that satisfying a client's needs trumps creativity. After years of loyal service, his clients expect him to bend when it serves their purposes.
 ''There are moments when I feel I can't be part of this, and I want to walk away,'' he said recently. ''I envy Frank's ability to do that,'' he said of Mr. Gehry. ''I know he's walked away when he knows the battle's lost. But I can't do that to the firm. I can't do that to my clients.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: David M. Childs with a model of the area surrounding the Time Warner Center, which he designed. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Designed by Gordon Bunshaft, Lever House is a postwar Manhattan landmark. Under Bunshaft, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, David M.Childs's firm, helped shape American corporate architecture. (Photo by Brian K. Diggs/The New York Times)
The James A. Farley post office building is to become the new Pennsylvania Station, top, following a design by David M. Childs. Bottom left, Mr. Childs's model for Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle
and, bottom right, an artist's rendering of the New York skyline with the proposed 1,776-foot-tall Freedom Tower, designed by Mr. Childs. (Photos by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, top and bottom left
 Lower Manhattan Development Corporation)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



406 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: CRUISE ADD-ONS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Save on Extras, on the Ship and Off

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
EXPERIENCED cruise passengers know that a cruise's ticket price is only a starting point for the cost of the trip, with shore excursions, soda, alcohol, spa treatments, tips and photographs often adding to the final bill.
 But in recent years, cruise lines have offered passengers a number of new ways to court sticker shock, which may include charging extra for things like Pilates classes (about $10 each), Internet access (35 cents to 75 cents a minute), printing photos from a digital camera (40 cents a print on Carnival), golf club storage ($40 on Norwegian Cruise Line), and espresso or cappuccino drinks ($1.50 to $2.75 or more on some ships, though coffee is still free).
 They also offer more exotic and expensive shore excursions and precruise or postcruise land tours at prices that routinely reach several hundred dollars, and can easily cross the four-digit mark.
 For instance, in January, Celebrity Cruises announced a dozen new XPeditions on its 2005 schedule, including a $700 tour of the NASA Johnson Space Center in Houston led by Walter Cunningham, an astronaut who was on the Apollo VII mission (the price includes a dinner cruise and one hotel night), and an overnight excursion to Machu Picchu for $1,820. 
 ''The cruise lines are giving people more opportunity, so to speak, to spend their money,'' said Tim Conder, a leisure-industry analyst at A.G. Edwards, an investment firm. Mr. Conder said fees for shore excursions and onboard extras represent about 23 to 25 percent of cruise lines' revenue, up from about 18 percent in the last five to seven years.
 Part of the reason for the increase is that cruise lines dropped ticket prices after Sept. 11 to fill cabins, so extra fees represented a bigger part of the pie. But even as the industry has bounced back and cruise lines are offering fewer discounts, onboard spending hasn't taken a hit. 
 ''People aren't really pushing back because spending keeps going up on a per-person basis,'' Mr. Conder said. ''They're voting with their wallets.''
 But for those worried about needing a defibrillator when they see their final bill (medical services cost extra, too), there are plenty of ways to economize.
 COREY SANDLER, author of the ''Econoguide Cruises 2005'' guidebook, said that one of the best ways to save is by arranging your own shore excursions. ''In almost every situation, whatever the cruise line is offering through the excursion desk, you can improve on or duplicate by making your own arrangements,'' Mr. Sandler said. ''And you can often do it for less money.''
 He suggested calling the visitors bureau in the port towns you'll be visiting and asking for advice (many also have Web sites and have offices near the docks, which generally offer maps with self-guided walking tours). 
 Another option is arranging a car rental for a day in port, which can be downright cheap if you're splitting the cost among several people -- and which gives you more flexibility than a group tour. When booking, make sure you can pick up the car near the dock, Mr. Sandler said, and be sure you get back to the ship on time. (One advantage of the cruise line's excursions is that the ship will generally wait for its own tour group if the bus gets a flat tire -- not the case if you are in a taxi and running late.) 
 There are also a few companies that sell shore excursions online (or by phone) that are sometimes cheaper than similar trips offered through the cruise lines. PortPromotions.com, ShoreTrips.com and PortTrips.com all sell tours in various ports around the world -- though you should compare prices and activities with what your cruise line offers because these companies tend to have less comprehensive offerings, and their prices aren't always a better deal.
 For instance, in Juneau, Alaska, Holland America and Princess Cruises offer an excursion to the nearby Mendenhall Glacier, with a stop at a salmon hatchery, for $39 a person, while ShoreTrips.com sells an excursion to the Mendenhall Glacier, plus a Juneau city tour, for $41 a person. But if you just want to visit the glacier on your own, you can buy a round-trip bus ticket at the docks in Juneau for about $10 a person. Rangers provide information on the glacier and the visitors center offers a film and displays ($3 in summer). 
 IF you want to book directly through a tour operator instead of a middleman, CruiseConcierge.com lists companies that offer flight excursions, city tours and other activities in various ports of call -- which you can also usually find by picking up a guidebook for your destination.
 Two other opportunities to save, Mr. Sandler said, are by booking your own air fare (rather than going through the agency that sells you the cruise) and making your own arrangements to get to and from the airport.
 ''I've seen instances where a cruise line would charge $30 or $40 to get you to the port from the airport, and a taxi would be $20 and you can take four people,'' he said.
 Art Sbarsky, consumer affairs editor for CruiseMates.com, a Web site with advice on cruising, said that another way to economize is to check your e-mail onshore, not at sea. ''In most ports now, there's an Internet cafe that's going to be much cheaper than it is on the ship,'' he said, adding that he's paid as little as five cents a minute in some ports (though in Slovakia, he had to struggle with a foreign keyboard).
 You can ask a crew member where to find an Internet cafe onshore or where to make phone calls using a phone card. And some ports have public libraries where you can check your e-mail for free.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Passengers can see the Mendenhall Glacier, near Juneau, Alaska, on a cruise excursion (for a fee), or on their own by bus (for a third of the price). Celebrity Cruises offers an excursion to Machu Picchu for $1,820. (Photos by Mark Kelley [glacier], Richard l'Anson/Lonely Planet Images [ruin]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (94%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (77%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (66%) Ships and Shipping ; Cruises; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (55%)

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: Susan Stellin

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%) ALASKA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



407 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 3019 words

HEADLINE: Uncaptive Minds

BYLINE: By Ian Buruma. 
Ian Buruma, a teacher at Bard, last wrote for the magazine about Iraq.

 BODY:
The main business of Napanoch, N.Y., is a maximum-security prison, Eastern New York Correctional Facility, also known as Happy Nap. The population of Eastern, 1,250 men, many from New York City, is about the same as that of Napanoch itself. Imposing in a hideous kind of way, the prison, built at the end of the 19th century, is modeled after a medieval fortress, with towers and turrets and a pyramid roof. The overall effect -- stony pomposity framed by lush green hills -- is rather Germanic.
 There is nothing particularly happy about Napanoch, situated on the raffish edges of the Catskills about 70 miles north of Manhattan; its better days as an affordable resort area for New York and New Jersey Jews have long gone. There are a few motels nearby with cracked signs that read Starlite and Eldorado; a diner; a Jewish cemetery; and a ''colony farm,'' where the original inmates of Eastern, mentally impaired delinquents, were put to work in the early decades of the 20th century. 
 There is, however, a reason that inmates call the prison Happy Nap. Eastern is more relaxed than other maximum-security prisons, or ''maxes,'' in upstate New York, with less hostility between staff and prisoners, and as a result fewer U.I.'s, or ''unusual incidents'' -- stabbings and the like. It is said that the farther upstate you go, the harsher the prison conditions can be. Among New York's maxes, Eastern has one of the best reputations. It is one of only three maximum-security prisons in the state where you can still get an education -- not just in manual skills, but a proper college education with a degree at the end, thanks to privately financed initiatives. 
 One person to have benefited from such an education is Mika'il DeVeaux, a slim, 48-year-old black man who served 25 years for murder. DeVeaux studied theology at Sing Sing and got an M.A. in sociology. After he was released in October 2003, he founded an organization in New York with his wife called Citizens Against Recidivism. DeVeaux likes to point out how much prison education reduces the chances of ex-convicts falling back through the revolving door of crime and imprisonment. That's why, according to DeVeaux, ''Eastern is the place to be.''
 Education programs used to be widely available in prisons in the United States, especially after the notorious Attica rebellion in 1971, which left 43 dead. Among the demands of the inmates, who were pressing for improved prison conditions, was a better education program. This demand was met, not only at Attica but also in prisons around the country. Over the next decades, prison education flourished. Then, in 1994, Congress effectively abolished all federally financed college education for prison inmates when it voted to eliminate Pell Grants for federal and state prisons, despite strong resistance from the Department of Education. Critics pointed out that education greatly reduces recidivism; only one-tenth of 1 percent of the Pell Grant budget went to the education of prisoners anyway. But Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican of Texas, argued that it was unfair for felons to benefit from Pell Grants when as many as 100,000 low-income students were denied them each year. Why should prisoners be educated for nothing when so many honest folks failed to get a break? And besides, she said, the federal government already spent upward of $100 million on prison education and training programs. Today, what federal money is spent on prisoner education goes largely toward vocational training. 
 Hutchison's arguments arose from a more generalized desire -- not just among Republicans -- to get tough on crime, or more precisely on criminals. Even though crime rates were actually dropping in the 90's, many argued that judges were letting felons off too lightly and that the ''rights'' of victims needed to be taken into account. Thus, beginning in the early 90's, prison regimes were tightened, even as mandatory minimum sentences and three-strikes laws meant more and more people came into the system and stayed. In this climate few politicians were ready to stand up for higher-education programs for prisoners. Before 1995 there were some 350 college-degree programs for prisoners in the United States. Today there are about a dozen, four of them in New York State.
The Bard prison initiative was set up by Max Kenner, who graduated from Bard College in 2001. After Kenner finished school, he spent the summer driving around from prison to prison, meeting with staff members and inmates to find out what kind of education program was most needed. He found many administrators receptive to the idea of a higher-education program; there was overwhelming enthusiasm among the inmates. And Eastern, thanks to its relatively liberal regime under its superintendent, David Miller, was the most hospitable, and agreed to be host of the pilot program.
 The Bard Prison Initiative now runs an associate degree program at Eastern. There are plans to introduce a bachelor's program soon. Inmates have to go through an application process like any prospective college student: an essay, test scores, transcripts (G.E.D.'s for those who didn't finish high school) and an interview by Kenner and his colleague Daniel Karpowitz. ''The admission process,'' Kenner said recently, ''is emotionally the hardest part of our work. Up to 200 apply for 15 spots.'' Only 50 students, out of a prison population of more than 1,200, are now enrolled. 
 I'd been teaching at Bard during the spring semester for several years, commuting from London, where I lived, so I knew about the program. When I signed up last year, Kenner told me the students would be interested in learning about East Asian culture. So, somewhat to my surprise, I found myself teaching a course in modern Japanese history. The idea of talking about samurai rebellions, Japanese imperialism and General MacArthur's occupation to men who were in for drug dealing, grand larceny and murder, was certainly intriguing but also somewhat daunting. How much did they know? How should I approach the material? Would they be at all receptive?
I entered Eastern on a cold day last February. Flurries of sleet made the fortresslike prison look even bleaker than usual. After being put through a metal detector and frisked, I heard the iron gates close behind me with a thud. My ''escort,'' in charge of education, was a friendly woman named Theresa with the jaunty air of a popular coach. 
 The first thing you notice inside is the spotlessness of the floors, which is no wonder, since there are always men around mopping and buffing. We walked through a narrow corridor with yellow lines on the floor. Inmates in olive green uniforms filing past us greeted Theresa with elaborate courtesy. Several blind men were being led around by fellow prisoners. Being physically impaired has its advantages; a bit more leniency is shown by the guards, which is why, Kenner told me, some prisoners pretend to be blind or deaf, a ruse that rarely works for long. One young white prisoner greeted me in German. I showed my surprise. ''Ja,'' he said, ''I'm the only one.'' Then I noticed a peculiar smell. Theresa must have spotted my wrinkled nose. ''Skunks,'' she explained. ''There are skunks under the floors.'' 
 My first class was held in the vocational section, where inmates engage in metalwork and other manual tasks. Eastern is well known as a producer of dog tags and street signs. Since prison rules dictate that all men in ''voc'' wear work boots and pass through metal detectors, my students did not like coming here. It meant they had to take off their boots and belts and submit to a body search, always a humiliating business. My class of nine consisted of a Puerto Rican, who had been to the Bronx High School of Science, one of New York's prestigious magnet schools; two white military veterans; a Vietnamese-American; four black men, two of them Muslims; and one young white man who had been incarcerated since he was 16. 
 I had been assured by Kenner and Karpowitz that the students would be enthusiastic. This was an understatement. But as I learned in my first weeks of teaching, the main difference between these students and those on the Bard campus was their polite formality. I was invariably addressed as ''professor,'' not so much for my sake, I sensed, as for their own self-respect. Somewhat patronizingly, I suppose, I had expected talk about sword-fight movies and Oriental wisdom. Instead, from the very start, questions of a far more sophisticated kind came quick and fast: about the economics of the Opium Wars in China, about the criminal activities of unemployed samurai, about the impact on Japanese cultural identity of Western ideas. One of the black Muslims, a tough New Yorker, mentioned Alexis de Tocqueville in the context of the Meiji Restoration.
 The students were smart, streetwise and funny, and I found it impossible not to be charmed by them. They were also clearly grateful to be in class, where they were treated as intelligent adults. It is easy to feel a little smug about dealing with these men, to feel a sentimental solidarity with them against the guards and the rest of their oppressive world. This soon leads to the kind of phoniness that any inmate can see through in an instant. 
 One form observed in prison is that you don't ask what someone is in for -- unless you're in for something, too. You may not get a straight answer anyway. Deputy Superintendent Sheryl Butler, a spirited woman in her 50's, told me that I didn't want to know the students' crimes. ''Otherwise you can't deal with them objectively,'' she said. Kenner told me the same thing. But I couldn't contain my curiosity and looked up their sentences on the department of corrections Web site. Of course, even what I could find out didn't tell me much: second-degree murder could be armed robbery, a gangland killing, the murder of a wife. But it helped me to keep some perspective whenever I was tempted to see the inmates purely as victims, suppressed by vicious guards. 
 I never witnessed any serious oppression, just the imposition of endless petty rules. The students remained remarkably calm, even when they were provoked. They knew they had no choice. It was hard enough getting into the education program. One false move could cost a student his place in the classroom, and in Happy Nap too. 
 It is a tricky situation. Education widens the gap between students and corrections officers and can easily increase hostility. Many of the officers have not been to college themselves and probably don't expect their children to either. But higher-education programs should also make life easier for the C.O.'s, since the prisoners who benefit from them are more inclined to behave themselves. Indeed, a C.O. once told a colleague of mine that life at Eastern was a trifle dull. At the previous institution where he'd worked there were shakedowns, stabbings on the galleries, mayhem in the solitary-housing unit. At Eastern, a guard was liable to fall asleep.
My second class was on the failed samurai rebellion in the 1870's against the Westernized Meiji government, on which the movie ''The Last Samurai'' was very loosely based. I mentioned a book, by Ivan Morris, titled ''The Nobility of Failure,'' and explained the admiration in Japan for rebels who die for lost causes. We discussed how this ethos compared with the American celebration of success. Perhaps, I said a bit facetiously, there was no such thing as a noble failure in America. One Muslim among my students laughed and said, ''This room's full of them.''
 Everyone had his own story, one that could quickly curdle into despair. One warm day in April, after two months of teaching, I attended an anniversary celebration of the Bard Prison Initiative at Eastern. A jazz band of inmates and volunteers was playing in the yard, while prisoners in white aprons served lemonade and chocolate cake. Speeches were made, by inmates and by Superintendent Miller, who has the avuncular manner of a rural bank manager. Words like ''respect'' and ''future'' and ''self-improvement'' flew thick and fast. The sun was shining, but one of my students, catching my eye, whispered, ''It's miserable.'' 
 Stories of failure and despair vary. You can never be sure how much is true. His came in a flood of words: regularly beaten by a drunken stepfather, kicked out of the house at 14, placed in a foster home, where he felt sheltered for the first time in his life until he discovered that the foster father was sexually abusing his charges. He was so incensed, he said, that he killed the man with a kitchen knife. He told me that he still becomes enraged at the thought of men abusing innocent women and children. Since he's been in jail, he has spent most of his time reading and writing. Books are his salvation, he said. He dreams of being a famous author. He has at least 12 1/2 more years of his sentence to go.
It was obvious to me, as a teacher, how precious education was to the students, not only because they could practically recite every sentence of the books and articles I gave them to read but also because of the way they behaved to one another. Prisons breed cynicism. Trust is frequently betrayed and friendships severed when a prisoner is transferred without warning to another facility. The classroom was an exception. We talked about Japanese history, but also about other things; one topic led to another. One day a guest lecturer spoke about pan-Asianism in the 1930's -- the Japanese aim to unite and dominate Asia by defeating the Western empires. My Vietnamese student remarked that he was a pan-Asianist with ''a small a,'' but that really he was a ''panhumanist,'' for ''we are all one race, right?'' One of the black students snorted in a good-natured way. The Vietnamese smiled and said: ''I know we have disagreements about that.'' 
 There cannot be many places -- in or outside prison -- where blacks, Asians, Hispanics, Muslims and Caucasians can discuss race and religion without showing hostility. A Muslim student, a big man from the Bronx, said he'd encountered little animosity to Muslims in prison. ''Sure, that's because we know each other,'' another student said. I found this surprising, since prisons are not known for racial or religious tolerance. But perhaps they were referring not to the prison system in general, or even to the narrower confines of Eastern, but simply to the class. Then a black student, in for robbery, piped up: ''If I hadn't been in prison, I'd never have met any Jewish guys. I had all the stereotypes in my head, you know, cheap and mean. But now I'm hanging with a Jewish guy the longest time.'' 
Eastern is different. But why? Why was Eastern more receptive to the Bard Prison Initiative than other prisons in the state? Why is Eastern ''the place to be''? Several men pointed out that ''the tone is set by the top.'' The superintendent and his deputy both started their careers as teachers. 
 Deputy Superintendent Butler likes to refer to Eastern as a ''therapeutic community.'' She has spent decades of her life inside the prison. Her son works there now. Eastern is her community, too. Walking around the prison one day, she sounded almost wistful when she told me about the flowers she'd received from inmates when she was hospitalized for a serious illness. I asked her about the trouble that inmates had making friends, when they know they might be transferred at any time. She replied that inmates get ''very attached to staff, too, you know. They have tears when they leave. We bring them up, like our children.''
 This is not the kind of thing you'd expect to hear from corrections officers in most maximum-security facilities. There is no doubting Butler's benevolent intentions. Like her boss, Butler has been consistently supportive of education programs at Eastern. And the relative decency with which inmates are treated by the C.O.'s has much to do with the example set by Miller and Butler. 
 Something Butler said to me still sticks in my mind. She was speaking about the benefits of education for men who would never leave prison. ''You know,'' she said, ''if you have a body'' -- that is, if you've been involved in a murder -- ''you're in for life.'' She kept returning to this point, even though most men do eventually get out. It was almost as if Butler did not really want her charges to leave. 
 I spoke about my impression to Mika'il DeVeaux, the ex-convict who started Citizens Against Recidivism. ''Deputy Butler,'' he said, ''wants to be the Eastern mother. She'll mother you, and if that's not what you want, she'll bully you.'' This can be disconcerting to some inmates. I heard one of them say that at least in more ''old-fashioned'' institutions, you knew where you stood; it was ''us'' against ''them,'' and a prisoner would not even dream of talking to a C.O. And yet, as DeVeaux also pointed out, ''it is a rare man who asks to be transferred out of Eastern.''
 Butler has known some prisoners for many years. I knew my students for only a few months. Yet I, too, found it hard to say goodbye. It is difficult to know what they really think of the teachers. We were not C.O.'s, to be sure, but still people on the outside. I do know what they think of Max Kenner, who threw them a lifeline when the government refused them an education. He is a hero to men who had little confidence left in humanity, including their own. It isn't much -- a few dozen men out of a thousand who can study for a Bard College degree, but to those men it is everything. It costs the state about $32,000 a year to keep a person in jail. It costs the Bard Prison Initiative only $2,000 to provide a student with a year of college education.
 On my last day at Eastern, I turned back toward the prison as I was leaving. There, high above me, I could just make out a face, pressed against the bars of a cell. It was my youngest student, the one who knifed his foster father. As I drove off, I glanced into my rearview mirror. All that moved in the mass of brick and steel bars behind me was a pale arm waving. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Istvan Banyai)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); MURDER (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); RELIGION (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); PRIVATE FINANCE INITIATIVES (62%); SOCIOLOGY (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



408 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: REFRESH BUTTON; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Home Again, At Least on TV

BYLINE: By Robert Johnson

 BODY:
The long business career of William G. Pietersen has taken him from his native South Africa to the United States. Over the years, he has served as an executive for corporate giants like Unilever and Seagram. Now he is in a prime-time South African television series based on his management advice. 
 Mr. Pietersen, 67, is the host of a 12-part series called ''Reinventing Strategy'' on Summit Television, a business and financial news channel that broadcasts to about 850,000 households in South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland and seven other African nations. The television shows are based on his book of the same name (John Wiley & Sons, 2002).
 ''I'm excited that there's enough interest in what I have learned about management to put it on television where I was born and raised,'' said Mr. Pietersen, who lives in New York. 
 As a white South African growing up in the later stages of apartheid, he said he had felt that the transition to democracy there could not come peacefully. ''But we got a miracle leadership -- Nelson Mandela,'' he said. ''Now many of the nations in that area need an economic miracle, and I'd like to be some part of helping contribute to that.''
 Mr. Pietersen's business counsel draws on plenty of experience. He was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford and was a lawyer in Cape Town for five years before starting his management career at the Unilever Group in marketing assignments that made him a world traveler. By 1988, he was a member of the office of the president at Joseph E. Seagram & Sons in New York, charged with overseeing its Tropicana juice business. 
 His management claim to fame was in translating corporate strategy into higher profits. Since 1996, he has been instructing others on that challenge as a professor at the Columbia Business School. ''My specialty is executive education,'' he said. ''What energizes me is working with executives who are out there 'slaying the dragon.'''
 Mr. Pietersen, who is married and has two grown children, begins each day with a two-mile walk in Central Park with his dog. Mr. Pietersen says he still has ''many friends in South Africa, where I visit regularly.'' He also does consulting work there. All that should ensure that someone saves tapes of his television series, which runs until April. Robert Johnson


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pietersen (Photo by Denise Winters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (72%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%) Television; Executives and Management

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (84%); JOSEPH E SEAGRAM & SONS INC (65%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Seagram Co; Unilever

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (84%); UNA (BIT) (84%); UNA (AMS) (84%); UN (NYSE) (84%); ULVR (LSE) (84%); UL (NYSE) (84%); JWB (NYSE) (57%); JWA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (84%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: William G Pietersen; Robert Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWAZILAND (79%); LESOTHO (79%); AFRICA (79%) South Africa

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



409 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; PAPERBACK ROW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 715 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:

THE CONFESSIONS OF MAX TIVOLI, by Andrew Sean Greer. (Picador, $14.) Max Tivoli's misfortune in this novel is to be born in 1871, in San Francisco, with the appearance of a 70-year-old man, and regress through life to physiological infancy. This curse -- he is born an innocent child in an old man's body and dies a wise man in a child's body -- has one advantage: living in disguise, Max pursues his true love, Alice, three times over the course of his life. As Greer explores his hero's life, ''Max's sense of melancholy can be keenly affecting,'' Gary Krist wrote here.

BLACK EARTH: A Journey Through Russia After the Fall, by Andrew Meier. (Norton, $15.95.) Meier, a Moscow correspondent for Time magazine from 1996 to 2001, recounts his travels across post-Soviet Russia. Visiting the ''distant corners of the old empire'' -- from the Chechnya war zone in the south to the polluted industrial city of Norilsk above the Arctic Circle -- Meier paints an unsettling picture of contemporary life in Russia.

HARRIET JACOBS: A Life, by Jean Fagan Yellin. (Civitas/Basic Books, $16.95.) In 1987 Yellin reprinted Harriet Jacobs's 1861 autobiography, ''Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,'' rediscovering Jacobs (1813-97), her harrowing story of persecution and her flight to freedom. In this rich, thoroughly researched biography, Yellin provides new details about Jacobs, including her life after slavery and her association with Frederick Douglass and Susan B. Anthony.

SECRET FATHER, by James Carroll. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, $14.) Carroll's elaborate political thriller alternates between a father and son as each recalls events in Berlin in 1961, weeks before the wall was built. Three American teenagers, arrested by East German police while attending a Communist rally, unwittingly possess a roll of film that could ignite a new world war.

THE HOOLIGAN'S RETURN: A Memoir, by Norman Manea. Translated by Angela Jianu. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $15.) This captivating memoir by the distinguished Romanian novelist opens in 1997, in New York, with the author agonizing over whether to visit his homeland for the first time since 1986. Manea resurrects his past with lyrical power: his deportation in 1941 to a Nazi labor camp; his days as an ardent Young Communist; and his disillusionment with the regime of Nicolae Ceausescu.

EVERYTHING WILL BE ALL RIGHT, by Tessa Hadley. (Picador, $14.) Hadley, author of ''Accidents in the Home,'' is mesmerized by the commonplaces of family life. Her second novel sweeps through 50 years in the lives of three generations of daughters feeling their way to adulthood in postwar Britain.

THE END OF BLACKNESS: Returning the Souls of Black Folk to Their Rightful Owners, by Debra J. Dickerson. (Anchor, $13.95.) In this eye-opening polemic, Dickerson argues that black Americans' self-doubt and preoccupation with racial grievances, ''however legitimate, keeps them from having to fashion a constructive way of viewing their role in American life.''

OUT, by Natsuo Kirino. Translated by Stephen Snyder. (Vintage International, $12.95.) This nervy, unconventional thriller, the first of Kirino's novels to appear in English, concerns four women who work the night shift in a Tokyo factory and become entangled in a gruesome crime. In 2003, our reviewer, Katherine Wolff, called it ''a potent cocktail of urban blight, perverse feminism and vigilante justice.''

THE TWO PERCENT SOLUTION: Fixing America's Problems in Ways Liberals and Conservatives Can Love, by Matt Miller. (PublicAffairs, $14.) Imagine redirecting 2 percent of America's gross domestic product (roughly $220 billion) annually toward a handful of specific goals. One possible result, according to Miller's provocative proposal, would be a country with universal health insurance, living wages and dramatically improved public education.

THE GREAT INFLUENZA: The Epic Story of the Deadliest Plague in History, by John M. Barry. (Penguin, $16.) In this exciting story of the 1918 pandemic, Barry ranges widely from medical facts and figures (between 50 million and 100 million dead worldwide) to the physiology of viruses to the development of the American Red Cross. Our reviewer, Barry Gewen, called this ''easily our fullest, richest, most panoramic history of the subject.'' Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Nancy Crampton
 Makoto Watanabe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (77%); SLAVERY (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); DEPORTATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ARCTIC (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



410 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: AUDIT FAULTS U.S. FOR ITS SPENDING ON PORT DEFENSE

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18 

 BODY:
The Department of Homeland Security has allocated hundreds of millions of dollars to protect ports since Sept. 11 without sufficiently focusing on those that are most vulnerable, a policy that could compromise the nation's ability to better defend against terrorist attacks, the department's inspector general has concluded.
 Hundreds of thousands of dollars has been invested in redundant lighting systems and unnecessary technical equipment, the audit found, but ''the program has not yet achieved its intended results in the form of actual improvement in port security.'' 
 In addition, less than a quarter of the $517 million that the department distributed in grants between June 2002 and December 2003 had been spent as of September 2004, the inspector general found. The report also questioned whether grants allocated for small projects in resort areas and some remote locations should have been considered as critical to national security needs as larger projects at ports that are more vital to the national economy.
 The findings, released earlier this week, were the latest to criticize the Homeland Security Department's antiterrorism grant program, which has come under attack by people who say it has set poor priorities. For example, Wyoming received four times as much antiterrorism money per capita as New York did last year, according to a Congressional report. 
 A Department of Homeland Security spokesman, citing the department's defense of the port grants that was included in the audit, declined requests for further comment. In remarks included in the audit, a Homeland Security official said the department had taken the higher risk factor of larger ports into account. 
 Ninety-five percent of all international commerce enters the United States through its roughly 360 public and private ports. But nearly 80 percent of that trade moves through only 10 ports, with the biggest loads passing through Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland in California and New York. That is why the nation's biggest ports are seen as particularly attractive as terrorist targets. Severely damaging one would not only cause deaths, injuries and property damage, but could also disrupt the flow of many basic goods into and out of the country, port officials say.
 Part of the problem, the audit found, is that the annual grants were given out based on applications submitted by individual ports and then awarded even when department staff members found that many of the submissions lacked merit. Instead of withholding money because of a shortage of viable projects, the department disbursed the money to finance dubious security initiatives, many of which are detailed in the 70-page report. The grants are described in some detail, but the names of the winners and losers are not disclosed.
 The grant program was intended to limit awards to what were considered strategic ports, meaning terminals that handle a large volume of cargo or a high number of passengers, are next to military facilities, or handle hazardous cargo.
 After examining four separate rounds of port grants, the inspector general found that the department appeared to be intentionally distributing the money as widely as possible across the country, instead of focusing it on the biggest ports or on other locations that intelligence reports suggested were most likely to be future targets.
 Major ports like New York, Los Angeles, Long Beach and Oakland received large allocations. But smaller grants went to ports in places like St. Croix in the Virgin Islands, Martha's Vineyard, Mass., Ludington, Mich., and six locations in Arkansas, none of which appeared to meet the grant eligibility requirements, the audit said. The department, as a result, ''had no assurance that the program is protecting the nation's most critical and vulnerable port infrastructure and assets,'' the audit said.
 Grants to ports were just a small piece in the more than $2.5 billion given out last year by Homeland Security to local and state governments, as well as to private enterprises. The money is to be used to help prevent attacks and to help equip rescue personnel and other public safety crews in case they need to respond to an attack. 
 The audit results appear to support criticism voiced last September by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, who complained in a letter to President Bush that the methods used to grant the awards did not make sense.
 ''Your administration awarded port security grants in the states of Oklahoma, Kentucky, New Hampshire and Tennessee,'' Mr. Lautenberg wrote. ''While there may be some form of maritime facilities in these locations, I question whether, of the nation's 361 maritime ports, these locations are truly the front lines on the war on terror.''
 In California and New York, officials have repeatedly expressed frustration at what they say is insufficient federal financing for their port security projects. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, predicted in 2003 that with nearly half of all port trade going through her state, ''there is an almost a one-in-two chance'' that any radiological explosive device, known as a ''dirty bomb,'' sent to the United States in a ship container would pass through California.
 ''Clearly, we need to allocate a considerable portions of seaport security resources to California ports to prevent or respond to such an attack,'' Ms. Feinstein wrote to the Department of Homeland Security.
 In objecting to the findings, an administrator at Homeland Security, Anna F. Dixon, wrote that the grant program ''continues to enhance security and address real or potential vulnerabilities in our nation's ports and waterways.'' Ms. Dixon said the grants were given ''where they are needed most to improve security in U.S. ports.'' 
 But Ms. Dixon, who works for the department's chief financial officer, also said that Homeland Security intended to adopt several of the auditor's recommendations in order to allocate the money in the future to the highest-risk ports.
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, in four rounds of port security grants, received $6.2 million, or 1 percent of the total grants given out through the primary port security financing source, according to federal documents.
 When other New York-based government agencies and private corporations are added in, the grants to the New York City area rise to about $35 million, about 7 percent of the total. The port handles 12 percent of the nation's cargo traffic. Much of the grant money directed to New York went to profit-making oil terminal companies, like Sunoco Logistics Partners, to help them pay for security enhancements.
 Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the port authority board, said it had long been obvious to him that the grant-making criteria needed to be changed.
 ''We have only gotten a fraction of the money we have requested,'' Mr. Coscia said. ''We have to start dealing with security based on what intelligence analysis leads us to conclude are greatest areas of vulnerabilities, and not on geographic distribution or political considerations.''
 According to the audit, the questionable projects that were financed include:
 $(6$)$130,000 for a closed-circuit television system at one port, awarded even after the department ranked the project 27th of 29 applications and stated in its internal review documents that ''these initiatives would be redundant to what the port authority has in place.''
 $(6$)$180,000 to install security lights at a port that the department noted is a ''small, remote facility that receives less than 20 ships per year.'' 
 $(6$)$10,000 to one port for encrypted radios that the field staff concluded were not needed and perhaps not compatible with federal and state radios.
 Grants were also given to private-sector projects that ''appeared to be for a purpose other than security against an act of terrorism,'' the audit said, or simply to replace existing security. 
 At one port -- next to which stood a luxury entertainment pavilion that included restaurants, a hotel and spa -- a $25,000 grant was given to install video surveillance equipment and alarms, a project that department staff members had ranked last among the applications. The auditors concluded that it ''appears to support the normal course of business'' and was unrelated to any potential terrorist threat. 
 In another case, a $935,000 grant was awarded for general security improvements to a port where an industrial park was being built, leading department staff members to question if the money was in fact an economic development grant, instead of antiterrorism financing.
 The Department of Homeland Security requires that the grant money be spent within a year of the award, but few of the recipients met this provision, the report says. The auditors found that few of the projects were ready to start construction at the time of the award, despite the one-year requirement. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Sunday about an audit that accused the Department of Homeland Security of spending hundreds of millions of dollars to protect ports without focusing on the most vulnerable ones misidentified the state that received grants for six locations that did not appear to meet the program's risk criteria. It was Alaska, not Arkansas.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); AUDITS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (60%) Terrorism; Ports; Ships and Shipping; Security and Warning Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (94%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



411 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; DIRECTIONS: ON THE MAP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Road Show

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
It ain't Chekhov. Which may be why ''The Drawer Boy,'' Michael Healey's somber comedy about a pair of bachelor farmers on the Ontario prairie -- who would share a dark secret if only one could remember it -- and the young actor who disrupts their lives could become the most-produced play in America without ever reaching New York.
 ''The Drawer Boy'' was inspired by what Mr. Healey called a seminal event in Canadian theater: ''The Farm Show,'' a 1972 play for which actors from a Toronto theater company interviewed farmers in the cow country of Southwestern Ontario. Twenty years later Mr. Healey, 41, decided to appropriate that bit of theatrical history for his own devices: ''I had already started working on the play about two slightly isolated middle-aged farmers whose lives revolved around myth and ritual, and I wanted to examine the purpose of narratives in people's lives, especially those not exposed to art.'' 
 The resulting three-man, one-set production -- perfect for the economics of regional theater -- received its premiere in Toronto in 1999 and swept the Canadian prize circuit, earning four Dora Mavor Moore Awards, the Floyd S. Chalmers Canadian Play Award for best new play and a Governor General's Literary Award for best English drama.
 After reading a review, the actor John Mahoney (''Frasier'') decided to import ''The Drawer Boy'' to the Steppenwolf Theater in Chicago, where it became the fifth-highest-grossing play in that theater's history and began to blaze across the United States like a grass fire. According to Mr. Healey, the play had 24 American productions last season and 31 worldwide. (It has been translated into Japanese, German and French.) In 2001 Time magazine ranked it as one of the Top10 plays of the year, and it was the most-produced play of the 2003-04 season, according to American Theater magazine.
 The map below shows many of the cities where ''The Drawer Boy'' has touched down in the United States. For curious New Yorkers, it will be a short drive away beginning on Wednesday, when it starts previews at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J., with Mr. Mahoney reprising his role as the farmer Morgan. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

Portland, Ore.
March 2004: ''The backstage word around Artists Repertory Theater is that William Hurt is tossing enough tirades and hissy fits to silence a chorus of opera queens. In what may be a first for a local theater company, every ticket was sold before opening night.'' -- Jonathan Nicholas, The Oregonian

Chicago
April 2001: The Steppenwolf Theater presents ''The Drawer Boy'' at its 25th-anniversary gala, luring Frank Galati back to the stage after 13 years to portray Angus alongside John Mahoney's Morgan. Richard Christiansen of The Chicago Tribune calls the production a ''warm, fuzzy hit'' and the actors ''a great odd couple.''

Cleveland Heights, Ohio
April 2000: ''The Drawer Boy'' crosses the border from Canada into the United States for the first time in the small, subterranean Dobama Theater, forcing the Steppenwolf Theater in Chicago to withdraw claims that its production, scheduled a year later, will be the American premiere.

Millburn, N.J.
Paper Mill Playhouse, February 2005: Are the farmers now headed to the big city? ''The hope here is that, absolutely, we'd like to take it to New York,'' John Mahoney said. ''I'd do it there in a minute. In fact, I cleared my schedule in the hopes that it will.''

San Jose, Calif.
September 2002, San Jose Repertory Theater: ''In many ways, 'The Drawer Boy' is the little play that could,'' writes Karen D'Souza of The San Jose Mercury News. Robert Hurwitt of The San Francisco Chronicle calls it ''a tantalizing but disappointing Canadian drama.''

St. Louis
January 2003, Repertory Theater of St. Louis: ''The Drawer Boy'' ''hasn't enough edge to cut butter,'' writes Judith Newmark of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch. ''Think of it as Stoppard Lite.''

Jackson, Miss.
May 2004, New Stage Theater: ''It's a very hot property in terms of what regional theaters are doing,'' Patrick Benton, the theater's interim artistic director, tells The Clarion-Ledger. ''It sort of keeps us in tune with the freshest plays that are out there.''

Bethesda, Md.
October 2003, Round House Theater: The Washington Post reports that the theater's artistic director, Jerry Whiddon, discovered ''The Drawer Boy'' during a week spent scouting plays in Toronto and Montreal in 1999 as a guest of the Canadian Embassy. In May 2004, the Round House production wins a Helen Hayes award for resident play.


GRAPHIC: Illustration (Illustration by Lisa Adams)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); HISTORY (74%); LITERATURE (67%); FIRES (63%); PAPER & PACKAGING (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



412 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Winning Back Europe's Heart; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Rogue Dollar

BYLINE: By Robert Skidelsky. 
Robert Skidelsky, a professor of political economy at the University of Warwick, is the author, most recently, of ''John Maynard Keynes: Fighting for Freedom, 1937-1946.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
What do Europeans want from the United States? As President Bush prepares for his first trip to Europe since his reelection -- a five-day swing through Belgium, Germany and Slovakia -- the Op-Ed page asked a variety of Europeans to name the single most important thing Mr. Bush could do to reinvigorate trans-Atlantic relations.
 PRESIDENT BUSH would cheer up the Europeans enormously if he indicated that he was willing to discuss the future of the dollar. The United States is the only major country proclaiming itself indifferent to its currency's value. In countries running persistent current account deficits, governments normally -- indeed must -- reduce domestic consumption. But so far, the United States has relied on other countries to adjust their economies to profligate American spending -- either by revaluing their currencies at the expense of their export trade as the Europeans have done, or by accumulating depreciating dollar i.o.u.'s without limit as the Chinese are doing. 
 But this cannot and should not last. The truth is that a country's exchange rate is too important a price to be left to market forces. Unless currency adjustments are made subject to rules or agreements, there will be currency wars, as happened in the 1930's. 
 Unilateralism is no more acceptable in currency matters than in foreign policy. The United States needs to start acting as the leader of an alliance, not as a rogue elephant, and treat the health of the Atlantic alliance as a core security interest, not as an optional extra. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CONSUMPTION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); SLOVAKIA (92%); BELGIUM (90%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



413 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: In Mayor's Sprint to New Stadium, the Starting Line Keeps Moving

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Tonight 13 members of an evaluation commission of the International Olympic Committee will arrive in New York to assess the city's bid for the 2012 Summer Games. But it is increasingly clear that they will leave four days later without knowing the answer to the biggest question of all:
 Will the city be able to build the Olympic stadium that is the linchpin of its multimillion-dollar gamble to get the Games?
 A few months ago, leaving that question unanswered would have been unthinkable to the Bloomberg administration, which had hoped to have a firm political commitment for the stadium in time for this week's Olympic Committee tour. Along with the Jets, which would pay most of the stadium's costs, the city had warned that the stadium project had to have final approval by now, or opponents would put at risk the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics. 
 But in a tumultuous series of events over the past two weeks, most notably Cablevision's competing bid for the development rights over the railyards where the stadium would be built, the city's seemingly unstoppable drive for approval has veered into a ditch. The Cablevision offer ultimately forced the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to open up the bids for the site to any developer, preventing a quick decision this month about a sale. And Albany's legislative leaders, who will have the final vote on the project, say there is no hurry to act. 
 As a result, the mayor's Feb. 16 deadline has come and gone. Since then, city officials have redrawn the line in the sand again and again, saying final approval must occur ''over the next month, or so.'' Or, at the absolute latest, they say, the stadium's fate must be clear by July 6, the day the I.O.C. plans to select the winning city.
 ''This thing is going down to the wire,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. Wright, a Democrat, possibly the only one of nine candidates for Manhattan borough president who supports the stadium. ''This is going to be a two-minute drill. Either you score a touchdown, or you miss a field goal at the end.''
 And as the stadium hangs in political limbo, the city's Olympics backers have backed themselves into an uncomfortable corner as the evaluation commission arrives -- they say they have not prepared a detailed alternative to the West Side if the stadium plan collapses. Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, the founder of the Olympic bid, said that no matter how bad things looked, there was no backup plan.
 ''We don't have one,'' he said in a recent interview. ''We've said it all along.''
 That stance may have helped in building momentum for developing the stadium plan to this point, but it also means the city's Olympic proponents can offer the I.O.C. no cushion from the latest threatening developments.
 Among the city's Olympic competitors, by contrast, Paris, Madrid and Moscow are using existing facilities as their proposed Olympic stadiums, although Madrid's and Moscow's will require renovation. London officials say they have the authority to begin building as soon as the bid is won.
 The city's Olympic planners have over the years investigated alternative sites, particularly when the United States Olympic Committee asked for a backup plan in 2002 before choosing the United States city that would be a finalist for the 2012 bid. They proposed renovating Shea Stadium in Flushing Meadows, Queens, on the assumption that the Mets would have already moved into their own new building next door -- an unlikely move without a huge city subsidy that has not been forthcoming.
 A renovated Shea without the Mets would have little use after the Olympics, but city planners did not publicly explore building an Olympics stadium in Flushing that could later be turned over to the Mets, similar to a plan used in Atlanta for the 1996 Games. That may be an idea that local Olympics planners will now have to consider, though there remains no public discussion of such an alternative.
 Charles Moore, who led the United States evaluation commission in 2002, said he thought the city could offer a Queens alternative again and satisfy the international commission.
 ''I don't think it will hurt the bid,'' Mr. Moore said. ''It might hurt that the leadership said they could do it and they couldn't do it. But Bloomberg and Doctoroff are really good.'' He said the city could come up with an alternative site that fits into the existing Olympics plan and make it look great.
 Mr. Doctoroff said past discussions with the Mets did not produce a satisfactory solution for either the Olympic organizers or the team. He would not waver from his public position that killing the West Side plan kills the Olympic bid, but said he expected to be grilled by evaluation commission members this week about needing an alternative to the Manhattan stadium.
 ''There is no question they will ask,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We are going to have to explain how far we have come in a relatively short time. And we are going to have to express our confidence that it will get done. My expectation is that it will not be an issue at all when the time comes for the I.O.C. to vote.''
 In looking back on the events that led to the city's precarious position, Assemblyman John W. Lavelle, a Democrat from Staten Island who recently became a stadium supporter, said it might have been a tactical error to have set firm deadlines that have now come back to haunt City Hall.
 ''I think the mayor made a big mistake saying no stadium, no Olympics,'' Mr. Lavelle said. ''I think it was something he used to push this along. No one in government thought it was true.''
 Mr. Lavelle recently left the stadium opposition out of a conviction that the New York Sports and Convention Center, as the stadium would officially be called, would be a significant job generator because of its ability to attract trade shows and conventions. But he also said that the city should listen to the views of local residents, many of whom oppose the stadium.
 There is no question that final approval will not come quickly and without a lot of struggle. The Empire State Development Corporation, the state's economic development arm, must still reaffirm its support for the project. The project would then go to the state's Public Authority Control Board, whose three members are selected and controlled by Gov. George E. Pataki, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno.
 Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the state's Development Corporation, said there was no point in bringing the project before either state board until the Jets strike a deal with the transit authority on the sale of the development rights over the railyard. And that will not be resolved until at least March 31, when Peter S. Kalikow, the authority chairman, hopes to bring a deal to his board for approval.
 ''The control board will never act on it if the M.T.A. hasn't approved a deal to buy the development rights,'' Mr. Gargano said.
 But even if the Jets buy the rights, their project is then subject to approval by Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver, who both have expressed misgivings about the stadium. Earlier this month, both men said they saw no reason to make a decision on the stadium on the Far West Side before July 6, when the I.O.C. selects a city for the 2012 Games. Until last week, Mr. Doctoroff had insisted that would be a mortal blow to New York's bid.
 If New York is given the Olympics in July, Mr. Bruno said, the roadblocks to a stadium would disappear. Stadium opponents, who insist they are not against the Olympics, are hoping that by then there will be momentum for a stadium in Queens, not Manhattan.
 ''Everyone knows that if the Olympics are going to come here they are going to be accommodated,'' Mr. Bruno told reporters on Feb. 9.
 At the same time, New Jersey officials are hoping to persuade the Jets to stay in the Meadowlands, where the Giants are negotiating to build a new $700 million stadium. In talks with the Jets, New Jersey officials have shown them a report indicating that a two-team stadium could be a bonanza for everyone. 
 Assemblyman Wright warned skeptics not to underestimate Mr. Doctoroff's political will to deliver a West Side stadium for the Jets and the Olympics. A few years ago, few people expected him to get approval for an ambitious rezoning of a 42-block stretch of the Far West Side, or with the governor's help, an expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
 ''Even before he became deputy mayor, this was all he was talking about,'' Mr. Wright said of Mr. Doctoroff. ''He's very focused.''
 But despite years of effort by Mr. Doctoroff, it is by no means assured that the Jets will gain control the development rights at the yard, now that the authority has opened up the rights to a virtual auction.
 Jets officials, who have already spent $40 million, say they believe that they have an advantage over other bidders, who would risk buying property rights they may not be able to use for many years. But at least one major New York developer, who requested anonymity, said he and a partner were considering making an offer for the development rights.
 He said they were weighing the time it would take to begin construction against the value of owning land near the waterfront in the last neighborhood available in Manhattan for large-scale projects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); INTERVIEWS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); NEW YORK JETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



414 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Page Two: Feb. 13-19; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

 BODY:

An Opposition Becomes Serious
 SINCE the end of the civil war in 1990, there have been two major rules in Lebanon: don't publicly question Syria's presence in the country, and don't try to work together to fight it. 
 But those rules no longer seem operative after the assassination on Monday of Rafik Hariri, the former prime minister of Lebanon. His supporters have accused Syria and the Lebanese government of orchestrating the bombing that killed Mr. Hariri and six bodyguards.
 On Monday, politicians in the country's nascent opposition movement called for Syria's military to withdraw from Lebanon before the elections in May. On Wednesday, Lebanon's many factions streamed into the streets for Mr. Hariri's burial -- the largest public show of anger against Syria since 1990. And on Friday, opposition politicians called for an ''independence uprising'' against Syria.
 ''This is the first time there has been a consensus on a fundamental issue since 1920,'' said Farid al-Khazen, a political science professor at the American University in Beirut, referring to the year when the state of greater Lebanon was proclaimed. ''One of the greatest taboos was political action that brings people together. Now this taboo has been broken.''
 The foundation for the opposition movement was actually laid in 2001, says Professor Khazen. That year, Cardinal Nasrallah Pierre Sfeir, the patriarch of the Maronite Christians, called for national reconciliation on a visit to Deir al Qamar, in southeast Lebanon, where some of the civil war's worst battles occurred. The event began a detente between Lebanon's Maronite community, which has long opposed Syria's presence in the country, and the Druse, led by Walid Jumblatt, a Syrian ally during the civil war. 
 Last year, Lebanon's disparate Christian sects banded into a full-fledged opposition movement, calling for Syria to cease interfering in Lebanon's politics. The movement, known as Qornet Shehwan Gathering, featured a who's who of Lebanese Christian leaders. And the movement gained even more steam months later, when Druse leaders and others joined the ''Bristol'' meeting in which they signed a charter calling for an end to Syria's intervention and to the existing government. 
 But even as the opposition movement grew, it still needed the backing of Mr. Hariri, a Sunni Muslim with a broad following. Mr. Hariri, a billionaire, became prime minister in 1992, and did much to rebuild Lebanon and its economy.
 But for many months, Mr. Hariri kept the opposition at arm's length, and as long as he remained wary, analysts note, the movement remained minor. 
 All that changed last October, when Syria pushed for lifting term limits on the Lebanese presidency, allowing President Emile Lahoud to stay on.
 Mr. Hariri, who had a tumultuous relationship with Mr. Lahoud, told the Syrian government he objected to the constitutional amendment. 
 He voted for it anyway, but then, shortly after its passage, he resigned as prime minister in protest. In late January, Mr. Hariri sent a member of his party to an opposition meeting. 
 Many charge that Syrian intelligence assassinated Mr. Hariri, fearing he was intending to join the movement himself and lead a parliamentary slate in elections planned for May. Syria has denied any involvement in the bombing.
 Since the bombing, many of Mr. Hariri's Sunni supporters have joined the opposition. ''More than anything, the Hariri funeral became a referendum on the Lebanese government and the way Lebanon was being run,'' said Michael Young, a Lebanese political analyst and an editor at The Daily Star in Beirut. ''We always seem to have this notion that if Lebanese go back to life without the Syrians, the country will fall apart. It won't be Sweden or the U.S., and there will be partisan politics. But it will survive.''

APPOINTED -- John D. Negroponte as the first director of national intelligence. Mr. Negroponte served as a delegate to the United Nations and ambassador to Iraq under Mr. Bush.

STOPPED -- Israel ended its policy of demolishing the homes of Palestinian militants.

BOUGHT -- Verizon, the nation's largest regional phone company, reached a deal to acquire MCI, the nation's second-largest long-distance company.

RELEASED -- A month-old transcript of the remarks of Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, commenting on the shortage of women in sciences and engineering. Mr. Summers apologized again; many faculty members were not appeased.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Funeral of Rafik Hariri (Photo by Jamal Saidi/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLITICS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TERM LIMITS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); RELIGION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: EMILE LAHOUD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) LEBANON (98%); SYRIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



415 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY INTERVIEW: WITH GEORGE F. COLONY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: As I.T. Goes, So Goes Forrester?

BYLINE: By LAURA RICH

 BODY:
FORRESTER RESEARCH made a name for itself during the dot-com surge in the late 1990's by selling research that promised to decode the onslaught of new technologies for businesses. When the Internet bubble burst, sending much of the technology industry into a long recession, Forrester was hardly immune: its stock price tumbled, along with those of many tech companies, though it has come back somewhat in the last two years. 
 Today, Forrester, based in Cambridge, Mass., remains a significant technology research business, exceeded only by Gartner Inc., which had six times the revenue last year. Forrester's chief executive, George F. Colony, spoke recently about current trends in technology -- like radio frequency identification tags, or RFID, used to identify things like products or pets -- as well as consolidation in the research field and his ho-hum attitude toward Google. Following are excerpts from the conversation. 

Q. What are the big trends in 2005?

A. There are some real fires burning here. RFID in the retail space -- that's a fire burning. You cannot ignore this. You're going to have to spend money, make change, change your organization, change your process, no doubt about it. On the back ends of all companies, there's a trend we call ''organic I.T.,'' which says we're moving away from big proprietary systems toward much cheaper systems built from cheap components based on standards.

Q. Forrester estimates that I.T. spending will grow 7 to 8 percent this year. Will your company's revenue also grow that fast?

A. We're not releasing any guidance so far, but leave it at this: Hey, this increase in spending is going to help our business. Just leave it at that.

Q. But as a rule, in the past, have your revenue increases followed the increases across the board?

A. We've tended to grow faster than tech spending.

Q. How does that happen?

A. Forrester, as it turns out, as it comes out of the recession, is really a portfolio company. We actually sell now four sets of products. We sell research, we are in the data business, we sell consulting, and the last part of our business is what we call community: we have a business called Oval, which is building boards of executives worldwide whom we bring together to solve problems and share solutions.

Q. Could your clients be involved in several of your portfolio areas?

A. Absolutely. Clients who are fully engaged with us -- we call them ''hitting for the cycle,'' it's a baseball term. That would mean they buy all four from us. In fact, some do; it's probably less than 5 percent at this point, but many more are doing it now.

Q. You advise some companies that sell hardware and software, and others that rely on your advice about what hardware and software to buy. Have you taken steps to prevent conflicts of interest?

A. If a vendor becomes a client, we will tell them upfront: ''Look, you will get no special treatment -- zero. We are making calls as we see them.'' Because our value proposition falls precipitously if we do not do that. We have to make the calls.

Q. Let's talk about Google. You came out against it to some degree last year, citing competition from Microsoft, Yahoo and AOL. But Google has done well. Were you wrong?

A. This is how I saw it: that Google has three major challenges in front of it. No.1 is competition. They have a lot of money, a lot of power and they want Google's business, so probably No.1 for Google is competition. Problem 2 for Google is what I call ''switching costs.'' There are no switching costs to move from one search engine to another. Before Google, I used AltaVista. I changed to Google in about 27 seconds. I will leave Google in about 27 seconds. The third problem is, Google is a fantastic technology for a page-oriented, HTML-based Internet, which is what we have today. The problem is, we're not going to stay in a page-oriented world.

Q. That assumes that Google wouldn't be able to adapt. And we're still going to need to search through all the information out there.

A. I'm just saying, if the library's changed the way it's organized, the way you search will be different. The old card catalog won't work as well.

Q. Your industry is consolidating. Your primary competitor, Gartner, recently bought META; last year, you acquired Giga. Is there enough business for you and Gartner?

A. It's like complex brain surgery. To get one opinion is probably not the right way to go. So there are two opinions to be had out there, and we're one of them. We don't care if we're the first opinion or second opinion, but there are only two to be had -- and we're one of them.

An extended version of this interview is online: nytimes.com/yourmoney.


GRAPHIC: Photo: George F. Colony, chief executive of Forrester Research, says increased spending on information technology will help his company. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BASEBALL (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GARTNER INC (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (59%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: IT (NYSE) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (59%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (59%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



416 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: 15,000 Rally in Togo to End Family's Rule

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: LOME, Togo, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
With thundering drumbeats and chants of ''Togo must be free,'' about 15,000 protesters streamed into the streets of this seaside capital on Saturday to express their anger at the military's installation of the son of the nation's longtime ruler as president. 
 A speech on Friday night by the new president, Faure Gnassingbe, was aimed at ending the two-week-old crisis by promising elections within 60 days to replace his father, Gnassingbe Eyadema, who died of a heart attack on Feb. 5. But the announcement failed to quell demands that Mr. Gnassingbe step down. 
 If anything, it appeared to help opposition parties draw a crowd far larger than those of earlier demonstrations, a river of people that swelled as hesitant bystanders joined the throng that eventually rallied at a square near the center of town.
 ''We are tired of this dictatorial regime,'' shouted Geraldine Nie, 42 and unemployed, as she held a tree branch aloft and marched on the city's main boulevard. ''We are no longer afraid. It is either life or death, and what we have now is worse than death.''
 Mr. Gnassingbe's announcement of elections apparently did not satisfy foreign critics either. Ecowas, a regional economic group that tried to persuade the new president to return to constitutional rule, said it would impose sanctions on Togo, said Remi Oyo, spokeswoman for Olusegun Obasanjo, the president of Nigeria. Later, Ecowas said in a statement it was suspending Togo from participating in the bloc's activities, imposing a travel ban on its leaders, recalling its ambassadors and decreeing an arms embargo, Reuters reported. Richard Boucher, a spokesman for the United States State Department, said Washington backed the decision.
 President Obasanjo, who is currently the leader of the African Union, told a Togolese delegation visiting Nigeria that he would not endorse Togo's decision to leave Mr. Gnassingbe as president until elections, Ms. Oyo said in a telephone interview. ''Clearly they are not meeting the requirements of the Constitution,'' she said. ''The indications are that he will be a candidate in the elections that he will preside over himself, which is unacceptable.''
 That announcement increased the considerable international pressure already mounting on Togo, a tiny impoverished nation on the Gulf of Guinea that Mr. Eyadema ruled for nearly 40 years. A delegation from Ecowas met with Mr. Gnassingbe last week, and on Thursday he flew to meet with Mr. Obasanjo, who told him he must return Togo to constitutional rule. Leaders around the world condemned Togo's move to install the son of the former leader. 
 ''The world must listen well to what the people of Togo have said today,'' said Jean-Pierre Fabre, secretary general of United Forces for Change, one of the opposition parties that organized the march here. ''We reject this so-called president, and so should they.'' The government also held a rally, which drew about 7,500 people, and Mr. Gnassingbe addressed them, calling for calm. ''We have to remain determined but dignified,'' he said. ''Because 60 days is a very short time. I am sure that at the end there will be good things for the Togolese people.'' 
 Demonstrators leveled much of their anger at France, which colonized Togo, and its president, Jacques Chirac, who was close to Mr. Eyadema. Mr. Chirac has condemned the transfer of power to Mr. Eyadema's son, but the legacy of decades of French support for the man who would become Africa's longest serving ruler was on display. 
 ''Mr. Chirac, you have French people in Togo. Be careful,'' was the ominous warning of one banner.
 After 38 years of rule by an authoritarian government that only recently began making concessions to democracy, the joy of dissent was palpable here on Saturday. Drums throbbed and people sang and danced through the streets. Those who had signs held them aloft; those who did not tore branches off nearby trees and waved them high.
 ''We have courage to protest now,'' said Dominique Zotoglo as he joined the crowd. ''Togo is not the property of one family. It belongs to us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters and a band marched through Lome, Togo, yesterday to demand major government changes. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RIOTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); DEATHS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); ARMS EMBARGOES (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Demonstrations and Riots; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Politics and Government; Elections

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (84%); AFRICAN UNION (59%) Ecowas (Economic Community of West African States); African Union

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; Gnassingbe Eyadema (Pres); Faure (Pres) Gnassingbe; Olusegun (Pres) Obasanjo

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%) TOGO (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); NIGERIA (93%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Togo; Lome (Togo); Nigeria; Togo

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



417 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Why a Real Estate Agent May Skip the Extra Mile

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
AS housing prices keep rising year after year, real estate has become a national obsession -- and a more powerful economic engine. Sales of homes and condominiums totaled an estimated $2.17 trillion in 2004, said Lawrence Yun, senior economist at the National Association of Realtors. 
 The industry couldn't function without the armies of agents who help buyers and sellers reach mutually agreeable terms on those four-bedroom, center-hall colonials, and who generally collect hefty 6 percent commissions for their trouble. But a recent study by two University of Chicago economists suggests that home sellers should regard agents with some caution. The study does not suggest that agents are inherently untrustworthy. Rather, it says, the housing market remains inefficient, and the incentives for agents to maximize profits for their clients aren't powerful enough. 
 The study was instigated by Steven D. Levitt, a self-described ''rogue economist'' who has applied the analytical tools of his trade to everything from sumo wrestlers to drug-dealing gangs; his work is cataloged in the forthcoming book ''Freakonomics,'' written with Stephen J. Dubner.
 Professor Levitt had fixed up and sold several houses in Oak Park, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. When working with real estate agents, he said, ''I got the impression they weren't working solely in their clients' best interest.''
 Along with a colleague, Chad Syverson, Professor Levitt set out to prove it by comparing data on homes that agents sold on behalf of others with those that they owned and sold for themselves. They analyzed sales from 1992 to 2002 of 98,000 homes in suburban Chicago, of which 3,300 were owned by real estate agents. When the economists constructed an analysis that controlled for amenities, location and the adjectives used to describe the houses, they found that agent-owned homes, on average, stayed on the market 9.5 days longer and commanded median prices that were 3.7 percent higher than comparable homes owned by clients.
 Of course, agents may just know how to position homes for sale better than other people do. It's their job, after all. And, being human, they may work harder selling their own homes, the way a dentist may take extra care cleaning her own child's teeth. But these explanations don't square with the data. ''If that were the case, you'd expect the clients' homes to stay on the market longer than the brokers' homes,'' Professor Levitt said.
 The two professors conclude that poorly designed incentives bear some of the blame. ''You have to keep in mind that the agent's incentives don't line up perfectly with your own,'' Professor Syverson said. 
 Real estate agents have a better sense than others of the best price a home can command. But when they work for others, they don't have the financial incentive to pursue it. Most home sales generate a 6 percent commission, split between the brokerage firms representing the buyer and seller. The agent generally receives half of the firm's draw, or 1.5 percent of the sale. So if a home sells for $500,000, the agent personally receives $7,500. Not bad for what may be just a few days of work. If the agent works for an additional week and urges the seller to hold out for $515,000, that's an extra $15,000 for the seller, but only an extra $225 for the agent. Because every additional dollar throws only a penny and a half into the pocket of the agent, the economists reason, the agent may push clients to accept lowball offers.
 Of course, price is just one factor motivating sellers to accept offers. Many are in a hurry, maybe because they are relocating for new jobs, or want to be in their new city by the time the next school year starts. So they may feel compelled to accept the first offer. Most agents who sell their own homes, by contrast, aren't leaving the area. ''The brokers may be in a situation where they can be more patient,'' said Mr. Yun of the National Association of Realtors. 
 Armed with this knowledge, what should home sellers do? ''You cannot completely trust the advice your broker gives you,'' said Christopher J. Mayer, a professor of real estate at Columbia Business School. ''You have to become more educated as a buyer.'' 
 In fact, the economists concluded that sellers, empowered by the Internet, are already eroding agents' advantage. Sites like Realtor.com and domania.com allow anyone to survey the market and check out neighborhood price histories. From 1992 to 1995, in the days before such sites existed, agents' homes commanded prices that were 4.9 percent higher and stayed on the market more than 14 days longer than equivalent other homes. But from 2000 to 2002, a period when such sites came into popular use, the margins shrank to 2.9 percent and 2.5 days.
 ''As consumers become more comfortable with the idea that they can price their own properties, times will get tougher and tougher for real estate agents,'' Professor Levitt said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Home Advantage''Real estate agents may take more time and get higher prices when they sell their own homes.Average time spent on the marketAGENT-OWNED: 102.5 daysNOT OWNED BY AGENT: 93 daysMedian home-sale priceAGENT-OWNED: $213,600NOT OWNED BY AGENT: $206,000Note: data based on a study of suburban Chicago from 1992 to 2002.(Sources by Steven D. Levitt
 Chad Syverson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); COMMISSION PAY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (67%); WRESTLING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



418 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Pension Funds Think Twice About Stocks

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
DOES it make sense to use stock investing as a way to finance retirement security? 
 The Bush administration and some members of Congress have been promoting the idea as a way of taking pressure off the Social Security system. Stocks, they argue, tend to produce higher average returns over the long run than bonds do, and especially the super-safe Treasury securities that the Social Security trust fund is invested in. Shouldn't tomorrow's taxpayers have the opportunity to harness the power of stocks today if they choose? 
 Critics of that idea point to recent problems in the pension-fund industry, which already invests heavily in stocks to finance future retirement income for workers, as a cautionary tale. 
 A half-century ago, pension funds generally invested as safely as they could; nearly all their money was in low-risk bonds and bond-backed instruments. Then came a series of bull markets for stocks, as well as changes in pension law and accounting rules that gave the funds more leeway and incentive to take risks. 
 The result was a vast shift of pension assets into the stock market. By the end of the century, all-bond strategies were a dim memory, and a typical pension fund had about two-thirds of its assets in stocks and just one-third in bonds.
 That worked well enough as long as stock prices were advancing, or their retreats coincided with periods of high interest rates. But the bursting of the technology bubble in 2000 ushered in a bear market that, unusually, coincided with low interest rates.
 Under those conditions, the equity-rich investment strategy caused a near-death experience for many pension funds. Some big ones failed entirely, spreading misery through the entire industry by straining the government-backed insurance program for pensions. Many others were kept afloat only because their corporate sponsors were able to pump in millions of dollars in fresh contributions, to the consternation of their shareholders. 
 Congress pitched in as well, with a two-year suspension of some fund contribution rules. The suspension runs out Dec. 31, and it is not clear how the industry will weather a return to normal requirements. Talk continues about an eventual taxpayer bailout.
 These last few rocky years are prompting an intense rethinking in the pension industry. Some, though by no means all, pension officials are concluding that stocks and pensions were a bad marriage, that the pursuit of higher returns exposed their companies to too much risk. 
 ''We have some clients that have moved a portion of their pension portfolio from stocks towards bonds,'' said Steven Kerstein, managing director of the global retirement practice for Towers Perrin, a large actuarial consulting firm. Actuaries are always tight-lipped about their clients, and Mr. Kerstein would not name specific companies, but he said that the clients who are scaling back their stock investments tend to be those with large pension plans relative to the size of the company. 
 ''They're saying, 'We know there's an upside if we take more risk, and we know there's a downside,''' Mr. Kerstein said. ''There are some that conclude that the upside is not as good as the downside is bad.''
 Other pension experts say they see the same trend. ''I definitely have clients moving more to bonds,'' said Mark Ruloff, an actuary and investment adviser with Winkelvoss Technologies, a company in Greenwich, Conn., that develops software for pension managers.
 Giving workers the freedom to pursue greater returns through stock investing than the Social Security trust fund earns now is central to the president's proposal. The administration emphasizes that the accounts would be voluntary, and that participants would be offered a range of options, including super-safe government bonds as well as stocks. 
 ''There are certainly real concerns'' about market risk, said Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman. ''That's why the president wants to build a system that addresses these concerns.'' 
 In practice, the administration expects people to choose a mix of assets. ''It is assumed that individuals will select portfolios that will on average reflect about 50 percent broad equity indexed funds, about 30 percent corporate bond funds and about 20 percent Federal Treasury bonds,'' wrote Stephen C. Goss, the chief actuary for the Social Security Administration, in a letter to the White House. The administration's projections assume that such a mix would produce an average annual return over the long term that is 4.6 percentage points greater than inflation. 
 But as the pension industry has learned lately, in the real world of stock investing, some years can be far from average. 
 The Teamsters Central States pension fund is an example of a plan that has been caught in the recent downdraft. Because of organized-crime problems long ago, the government supervises the fund's every move, so its investment strategy is on the conservative side of current industry practice. At the end of 2002, it had 54 percent of its assets in stocks and most of the rest in bonds, along with a small amount in real estate and other assets. 
 The fund's stocks fell off a cliff in 2000, along with the market at large, and kept on falling through 2001 and 2002, while low interest rates caused its future obligations to balloon. Its members kept on aging, retiring and drawing benefits as usual, pulling more than $2 billion a year out of the fund, and the unionized trucking companies that sponsor the fund, suffering financial difficulties of their own, could not put in new cash nearly fast enough to cover the growing shortfall. 
 The fund's stock investments rebounded in 2003, but by then, grave damage had already been done. The fund's trustees have had to ask the government to waive some solvency requirements, and they have cut benefits, to the shock and anger of many Teamsters who had been expecting to retire around now.
 Pension funds in other fields have also run into trouble because of the combination of stock market losses and low interest rates in recent years, notably in the airline industry, where the severe financial problems of carriers like United have made it unlikely that their plans can survive.
 Still, many pension fund managers say that these problems have been exceptional, and that stocks remain the best way to go for the long run, both because of stocks' track record of strong returns in the past and because there are still powerful accounting incentives for companies to have them in their funds. Some pension managers have even been moving into still-riskier assets like hedge funds, hoping to make up the ground that stocks have lost. 
 But the former consensus in the pension industry about the wisdom of using stocks to finance retirement has clearly been broken. 
 When the risks that companies take come back to bite them and their pension funds fail, the obligation to pay retiree benefits falls to the government-backed insurance program. Officials there are bracing for more pension-fund failures -- and moving the agency's own portfolio out of stocks.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Some pension-fund managers are shying away from the ups and downs of the equity market. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)Graph: ''Adding Risk''Traditional private pension funds have become more reliant on equities, including stocks, at the expense of less volatile fixed-income investments like bonds.PERCENT OF ALL PENSION INVESTMENTS:Equities: 66%Fixed-income: 28%Graph tracks percent of all pension investments since 1977.(Source by Greenwich Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); ACCOUNTING (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



419 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CENTRAL PARK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Apricot Fabric Plus Gray Panes Turns Squeegees Into Bits of Gold

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

 BODY:
PATRICK SHIELDS, a residential window cleaner in Manhattan, was just settling into his annual winter break in late January when the phone began ringing off the hook. At first he couldn't account for the volume of calls for his services, but then he spotted a pattern: all the customers, many of them anxious, lived on streets bordering Central Park.
 It was then that Mr. Shields realized that he was personally reaping the vaunted economic benefits of Christo and Jeanne-Claude's public art project ''The Gates.'' And Mr. Shields has been hanging out at high-rise apartments ever since, earning unaccustomed profits by wielding his suddenly in-demand squeegee on more than 200 windows along Central Park West, Fifth Avenue and Central Park South. 
 ''This is two grand in my pocket that I never make this time of year,'' Mr. Shields said between jobs the other day. ''And what's most interesting to me, in terms of the importance people give 'The Gates,' is that in a lot of cases I'm cleaning windows that aren't that dirty and don't really need it, but they want to get a good clean shot at this thing.''
 Other window washers report a similar surge in business around the park's periphery.
 ''We're probably doing at least 50 windows a day around the park,'' said Richard Kulzer, owner of Frank's Window Cleaning Company, which specializes in Yorkville and the Upper West Side. ''Increases in those locations could be a hundred percent over normal. And there's an increased urgency: the sooner the better.'' 
 The unexpected spike in business reminded Mr. Kulzer of the period before the Bicentennial celebrations in 1976, when the tall ships sailed up the Hudson River, prompting a rash of calls from Riverside Drive residents. 
 Elizabeth Bailey, whose family's eighth-floor apartment on West 94th Street overlooks the park, is one ''Gates'' fan who waited until the day before the project's unveiling before summoning a window cleaner. 
 ''We had friends from TriBeCa and SoHo who spent the night, because they wanted to be able to have a cup of coffee and just look out the window,'' Ms. Bailey said. Beginning at 8 on the morning the apricot-colored fabric was unfurled in the park, Ms. Bailey's family held an open house that attracted adults as well as many small children. ''My windows were crystal clear, so it was like looking at a really beautiful print of a photograph; there was a clarity to it,'' she explained. ''Of course, the windows got very, very dirty on the inside, with small handprints.'' JOHN FREEMAN GILL


GRAPHIC: Photo: PARK VU -- Patrick Shields has been washing a lot of windows overlooking Central Park. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



420 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; COMMUTER'S JOURNAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: They Take Their Toll, But at Least They Smile

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
AT times I catch myself referring to the Saw Mill, the Bronx River and the Henry Hudson as freeways. Of course, I accept the fact that here in the East they cost money to use, but as a born and bred Californian, I subscribe to the notion that tolls amount to highway robbery.
 When I migrated here and began driving on the parkways, I had to learn to be prepared for the toll plaza in the North Bronx, on the way either to or from Westchester.
 At first I approached my 45-minute-on-a-good-day commute with resentment. It was difficult not to think of it as wasted time. I was being held hostage in a Chevy Malibu. ( I've had much worse. There was a brief period in Los Angeles when my morning's drive would top two and a half hours, and the differences between the freeway and a parking lot seemed minuscule.) 
 Soon, though, I learned to appreciate the benefits of the daily treks. They meant listening to plenty of National Public Radio in the morning and appreciating the aesthetics of bubble-gum pop music at night. In the moments that allowed me a daydream, I would gaze out at the brilliant leaves or freshly fallen snow.
 Then, suddenly, I would be jarred from my reverie by the sight of the boxy tollbooths. I recognized that they were a necessary element in the vast network of commuter options, but those booths infuriated me. As my car would pull to a halt, anywhere from two to six times a day, I would reach over to my wallet bitterly, calculating how much more I was paying in tolls than I had paid for my monthly subway pass in the city.
 I had to remember always to have cash, preferably singles, or face a scowl from the tollbooth worker, who peeled off my change as if I was asking her for a portion of her salary. ''Listen, lady,'' I imagined shouting in a moment of melodrama, ''this is no more of a pain for you than it is for me! At least you are getting paid sitting in that cozy little chair of yours! I'm the one forking over money!''
 I had morphed from an easygoing Angeleno into a curmudgeonly New Yorker. For weeks, the E-ZPass application sat under a pile of coffee cups and newspapers in the passenger seat. My online form had been rejected, some unknowable technological glitch forcing me to fill out a paper form and mail it in. And my annoyance did little to help me overcome my tendency to procrastinate.
 Then, with the knowing slowness of a car pulling into a tollbooth, I began to realize something: My daily drive had become more and more familiar -- not to say monotonous -- and my periodic cash stops not so very onerous. In fact, they had become the highlight of my commute.
 It's unclear whether I was motivated by boredom or my mother's training in good manners, but I began chatting up the men and women who took my money. I learned who was where on what shift, and offered a weary smile every time I passed. Out of fear of receiving threatening honks from the cars behind me, I never did more than exchange perfunctory pleasantries, but I learned to anticipate the easy smiles of the peppier workers and the reluctant grins of the stubbornly grim ones.
 There were the teasing ones, who would rib me for heading home late or ignoring the mountain of junk in the back seat. There were the flirtatious ones, who would compliment my hair or sweater as if they were in a dimly lighted bar, instead of under the fluorescent lights of the Saw Mill. And some seemed not even to need an audience, simply humming to themselves, already beaming by the time I rolled up.
 These toll workers helped me overcome the doldrums. They offered an assurance of contact -- proof that people beat robots or wire bins, adding humanity to an otherwise vacant drive.
 But all the while, I was still doing the math. I knew that I was still spending more with each toll.
 After more than two months of the cash commute, my E-ZPass was delivered, its automatic toll discounts built in. With the white plastic square affixed to my windshield, I was on the path to economic salvation.
 But I have come to see that what I lost had its own special value. As I drove up to a row of booths the other day, I yearned for those shared smiles -- something I never got on the freeway. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Commuting

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Jennifer Medina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



421 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: School Cheating

BYLINE: By HOWARD S. WEITZMAN. 
Howard S. Weitzman is the Nassau County comptroller.

DATELINE: MINEOLA 

 BODY:
NASSAU COUNTY residents send their children to schools widely considered to be among the best in the nation. They also pay among the highest local taxes in the nation -- mostly school taxes. It follows, therefore, that Nassau residents simply choose to pay more in order to have superior schools. Right? 
 Not necessarily. Nassau County residents pay a bigger share of their incomes in school taxes than those who live in comparable suburban counties, like Suffolk and Westchester, despite similar income levels and education spending. Nassau also receives far less aid than New York City or, on average, the other counties in the state. In fact, based on a study my office has conducted, it's clear that the state is shortchanging Nassau County on aid for education, and this needs to stop. 
 Adding urgency to this struggle over how to apportion state aid to education, the New York State Supreme Court last week issued a ruling in the case brought by the Campaign for Fiscal Equity. The decision, unless it is overturned on appeal, will compel the state to provide an additional $5.6 billion in annual aid to New York City schools. This has implications beyond the city and argues strongly for the need to redesign the formulas used to determine state aid. 
 In our study, we determined that the average local tax burden per household, including property taxes and local income taxes, is $6,056 in Nassau, $4,182 in Westchester, $3,818 in Suffolk, and $2,984 in New York City. In other words, the people of Nassau County pay nearly 50 percent more than those in Westchester, 60 percent more than their neighbors in Suffolk and more than double what the residents of New York City pay.
 Surely this is because Nassau's incomes are higher, right? Well, no. The average household income in Westchester ($122,833) is higher than in Nassau ($110,429). The result is that in Nassau, local taxes -- two-thirds of which go to schools -- constitute 5.48 percent of income. In Westchester and every other county we studied, the percentage is lower: 3.4 percent in Westchester, 4.21 percent in Suffolk and 4.1 percent in New York City.
 Not coincidentally, Nassau's level of school aid from the state, 16.6 percent, is the lowest in the New York metropolitan area. Compare that to 19.3 percent in Westchester, 29.8 percent in Suffolk, 43.3 percent for New York City or the statewide average of 37.4 percent.
 Perhaps Nassau residents pay a greater percentage of school taxes because they spend more on schools than fellow suburbanites? Wrong again. Compared to Westchester and Suffolk's costs, Nassau's are in the middle at about $16,800 a year per student. That's $1,200 less than Westchester and about $800 more than in Suffolk.
 So why do Nassau residents pay more of their incomes to support schools? It's because they receive less state aid. 
 That, of course, raises the thorny question of how state aid is determined. The current system is Byzantine and based on an array of often conflicting formulas -- more than 50 separate formulas that according to New York's Supreme Court ''are understood by only a handful of people in state government.'' The court has also found that the formulas are politically ''malleable'' and manipulated ''to conform to budget agreements reached by the governor, the speaker of the Assembly and the Senate majority leader.''
 These state aid formulas are based not only on the percentage of low-income students, but also on measures of wealth. Because property wealth is considered equally with income, even though homeowners cannot realize such wealth until they sell, the formulas tend to exaggerate the affluence of counties like Nassau, where home values have risen substantially in the last 20 years. 
 Economists say that with the median home price in Nassau now $437,000, more than half of Nassau residents could not afford to buy their own houses based on their incomes. Meanwhile, they are being squeezed on local taxes -- primarily school taxes -- based on the premise that they are affluent because of their property values. 
 This squeeze is particularly a problem for the elderly, who must contend with huge tax bills and soaring health care costs, and for the young, for whom property taxes make even a modest home in Nassau unaffordable. 
 Household income provides a more accurate picture of ability to pay taxes. In the wake of last week's court ruling, it is crucial that state aid formulas be simplified. The state needs to recognize regional cost differences -- a teacher's salary, for instance, goes a lot further in Olean, in western New York, than it does in Oceanside. The formulas should not be subject to political manipulation. And most important, they should be tied to measures of income, not based on property values which in this overheated real estate market, are an indicator of neither income level nor ability to pay taxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); EDUCATION FUNDING (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CHILDREN (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SCHOOL CHEATING (78%); SUBURBS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); APPEALS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); CITIES (70%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); INCOME TAX (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



422 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: ECONOMY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: MINIMUM WAGE ADVANCES

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Despite warnings from business owners that additional labor costs could force them to close, a measure raising the minimum wage by $2 in the next two years has advanced. The Senate approved the measure last Monday. 
Earlier, the Assembly Labor Committee heard hours of testimony before voting to move the bill forward to the full Assembly. In his State of the State address last month, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey called on lawmakers to raise the minimum wage, saying that 12 other states already require that their workers be paid more, even though none matches New Jersey's high cost of living. Under the measure, the minimum wage would increase to $6.15 an hour, from $5.15, on Oct. 1, and to $7.15 on Oct. 1, 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (88%); COST OF LIVING (72%); TESTIMONY (71%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Law and Legislation

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



423 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; The Talk: Perfect Bound; Pg. 134

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Anchor Steam

BYLINE: By Tyler Brule

 BODY:
There are days when I wonder whether the people in TVnews ever read fashion magazines, venture into stores, travel to exotic lands or even walk down city streets. Judging by the state of what's happening behind news desks, on sofas and out in the field, my hunch is a firm no.
 It strikes me that the executive producer at NBC uses his mother as a benchmark when he lets his up-and-coming anchorwoman clatter across the floor and take up her position behind her desk; that the morning-news host with the seven-figure salary at ABC is happy to run from town car to dressing room and throw on whatever is hanging on the rack; that image consultants have convinced marketing executives that helmet hairdos are still a big ratings booster. Or is it that they deliberately get it wrong so that people like my 87-year-old grandmother will tune in religiously to see if the hair is up or down? The jacket too mauve or too short? The eye makeup too dark, or -- horrors! -- the eyes lifted? 
 Whatever way you look at it, television news -- from local to network to cable -- is the least elegant place on the broadcast landscape. Such a change from the days when news readers and correspondents were the height of international chic. Remember Hilary Brown of ABC doing reports from Cairo -- open-neck navy shirt, a light tan and sensible hair? Jessica Savitch in her tight suits and checked shirts? Today the field belongs to Christiane Amanpour of CNN and her knack for good neckwear.
 Every year, networks and stations spend tens of millions of dollars investing in the latest video-phone technology, satellite trucks and compact digital cameras. In the control room they fork out for hypersonic graphics, swooshing jingles and virtual images that make complicated information simpler to digest. In the studio they construct duplex newsrooms with pop-up plasma screens that resemble lofts overlooking the East River. With so many jazzy new toys to play with, so many buttons to push and incoming live feeds from Ramallah to Reno, it's little surprise that somewhere along the way someone has forgotten to pay similar attention to the windswept correspondent in the tentlike trench or the anchor who's shown up on the set wearing a saggy tee under a mandarin collar.
 TV news executives have failed to recognize that a poorly turned-out correspondent, no matter how articulate or informed, is a distraction. This needs to be remedied.
 Die-hard broadcast journalists might argue that such an obsession with appearance is superficial and detracts from the storytelling. Fair point, which is why there's also a medium called radio for those who can't be bothered with a comb or an iron.
 At my fantasy network, there'd be a big emphasis on hiring the brightest and best-looking news staff, and no, this doesn't mean a station full of pencil-thin presenters or instant face lifts for anyone over 50. For cub reporters there'd be a basic wardrobe supplied by the label A.P.C. -- fitted trench, good knitwear, sensible little skirts, smart blazers and good denim. In overseas bureaus, there'd be sober Jil Sander suits for covering state funerals, Birger Christensen furs for those assigned to Beijing or Moscow and epaulets on everything for women covering the Middle East, Africa or Southeast Asia. For two-way satellite interviews from economic summits in Latin America, there'd be an extra budget for Dolce & Gabbana dresses. 
 And Loro Piana knits for documentaries shot on the Amazon.
 Hair and makeup would be kept natural for the field with a bit of lift and glamour reserved for studio work. For accessories, there'd be standard-issue Globe-Trotter suitcases for extended travel and a be spoke correspondent bag from Yoshida for quick dashes to far-flung flare-ups.
 Television news already needs to do so much work to up its game in the content department. What responsible networks allow to pass for news is fast becoming an insult to informed audiences around the world. While they struggle to sort out their news agenda, one of the networks should take the giant leap and give all on-screen talent a good once-over. Solid reporting, snappy writing and even snappier dressing -- now that would be newsworthy.


GRAPHIC: Drawing: Brule's Top TV Newswomen: good to look at, good to listen to.1. Christiane Amanpour (CNN): She has strong camera presence -- and loves an epaulet. 2. Martha Teichner (CBS): Calm of manner, she is a great storyteller, an American classic. 3. Wendy Mesley (CBC): The best big-network anchor in North America. 3. Lyse Doucet (BBC): An Afghanistan expert with one of broadcasting's most distinguished accents. 5. Katarina Sandstrom (SVT Sweden): With her great look and voice, she is fast becoming an icon in Sweden. 6. Hilary Andersson (BBC): Covering Africa, she is gritty, well groomed and a snappy writer. 7. Giselle Khoury (Al Arabiya): TV news needs more moderators like her. 8. Christine Ockrent (France 3): An institution in Europe, she is now a welcome sight on CNN International. (Illustration by PETER STEMMLER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (54%) SWEDEN (89%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (59%); AFGHANISTAN (59%); EGYPT (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



424 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; The Talk: Us&Them; Pg. 126

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Hose

BYLINE: By Suzy Menkes

 BODY:
Standing in a manga store in Tokyo recently, I had an epiphany about Japanese women and their penchant for knee-high socks. Among the 13,000 comic books, videos and toys on sale at Mandarake, a store in the hip Shibuya district, not one single woman stood out.
 In fact, the cover of almost every manga, or comic book, featured an identical doe-eyed, cutely sexy creature with elongated legs and white schoolgirl socks. When the salesperson was dressed in the self-same sailor-collared dress and white socks that I had just seen on a gaggle of giggling teenage girls, I began to get the drift. Socks in Japan are not so much examples of childish innocence; they are more an invitation to dalliance and deviance. 
 I began seeing socks everywhere. Sidewalk shops had racks of them, printed with girly drawings or mysterious messages like ''sweet tart'' or ''sugar.'' My hotel's laundry sheet had an extra page offering to supply them (which I naturally took to be a hooker service, although my Japanese language skills were not up to testing it).
 I started asking a few questions about socks. One acquaintance theorized that manga images are now so deeply embedded in the culture of the 20-something generation that, in their heads, Japanese women are cartoon cuties. Another one traced white socks separated at the big toe (and here I thought Martin Margiela had invented them!) to the kind worn by young girls when they don their first kimono; socks are probably the only thing a geisha keeps on when her kimono is unfolded.
 By the time an American friend of mine, who is married to a Japanese man and living with his family, had told me that she was greeted with screams of horror from her mother-in-law when she ran down the stairs barefoot, I was getting a complex about finding my hotel bath slippers when the waiter came in with breakfast.
 But then I used to get a complex in New York when I was the only person in the front row watching the shows, in freezing February, without her bare legs crossed so that a dainty mule hung off one toe.
 Or in the steamy heat of July during the Milan men's-wear season, when no fashionable Italian woman hit the city streets without pallid beige fishnets.
 My awkward relationship with hose started years back in class-conscious Britain, where nice young girls (gals, as they were called among the upper classes) covered what was visible of their legs with navy blue stockings under long pleated skirts. They are still worn to this day (probably with those Bridget Jones-style knickers) by members of the royal court. They are not to be confused with bluestockings 2/3 who were the intellectuals and feminists of their era and the first women to make hosiery their flag.
 I have tried to see a pattern in leg coverings. If hemlines soar upward with a bull market, do hose follow? That seemed to be true of the 1960's, when swinging Londoners showed off Twiggy-style legs with newly invented pantyhose. But if socks are a signal of economic expansion, how come all those Wall Street traders spent the bullish 90's with bare feet stuffed into their Ralph Lauren loafers? (Perhaps they were plotting to send up the stock price of pharmaceutical foot fresheners?)
 Only now that the dollar is in free fall against the euro have socks come back into the fashionable man's closet. There are even thick, woolly clotted-cream socks for next summer (as opposed to fine silk for the winter, naturally).
 Men in socks with their pants off conjure up only images of hilarity, whereas women in hose, and especially the naked space between thigh and underpants, have been considered titillating ever since Victorian society decreed that a glimpse of stocking was something shocking. All those naughty Edwardian postcards feature women in black hose and not much else. On the silver screen, a woman rolling up her stockings was always a signal of sexual allure.
 I had my own teenage awakening over hosiery. My high school, without enough regard for the punctuation lessons that were solemnly taught to us, insisted that girls should wear white or fawn-colored socks or stockings. Since white hose were briefly in vogue, I insisted that the rules be read without the semicolon that should have separated the socks from (nude) stockings. 
 I won my case, thus proving to myself that, in fashion and in life, hosiery is open to all sorts of interpretations.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Corbis)Drawing (Illustration by VAULT 49)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



425 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-20-05: THE ETHICIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Wallet Scrutiny

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
Driving to work, I found a wallet in the road containing identification and more than $300, which I suspected was the ''bag money'' of a street-corner drug dealer. I did some online research, and the guy has had legal troubles and currently owes child support. May I mail him his ID, send half the money to his ex-wife to support his child and keep the rest as a reward for my good deed? E.B., Connecticut
You should not return ill-gotten gains to the ill-getter -- if you found bags of money stolen from a bank, you would deliver them to the bank, not the bank robber -- but why are you certain that this is what you have found? That $300 is not so magnificent a sum as to require a felonious accounting. You simply don't know the source of this money. If you have a strong suspicion that the wallet is evidence of criminal behavior, turn it in to your local police station. If not, mail it back to its owner. 
 In neither case can you justify keeping half the money ''as a reward for my good deed.'' Returning a lost wallet is ordinary decent behavior, not a remarkable heroic exploit. In addition, a reward must be offered freely by the person wishing to bestow it; it's not something you can peremptorily grab. The technical term for that, as I, a nonlawyer, understand it, is stealing. And while this guy -- any guy -- should of course pay his child support, it is not for you to enforce that obligation through vigilante cash-snatching.
 Sorry to offer so unrelenting a catalog of disapproval. On the upside, I am impressed with the acuity of your vision in spotting a wallet in the road from a moving car. My compliments to your ophthalmologist.
 I work for an organization that places volunteers around the United States in nonprofits that help alleviate poverty. This organization provides us volunteers with a biweekly subsistence allowance at the poverty level of the communities we serve and encourages us to apply for food stamps. 
 I am a college graduate who could earn a decent living, but I choose to do this work. I could perhaps live on my allowance with strict budgeting. Is it ethical to apply for food stamps? S.B., Chicago
 It is indeed ethical to apply for food stamps. And when you do, fill out those forms honestly and comply with all eligibility requirements, which refer not to some hypothetical earning power but to your actual income. Those who designed the program could have required you to seek more profitable employment (recipients of unemployment benefits must demonstrate that they are able and available to work, for example), but they chose not to. No nurse's aide or poet (or poetical nurse's aide) is compelled to return to school for an M.B.A. And you have no obligation to set more rigorous food-stamp eligibility standards for yourself than your state has.
 And beyond legalisms, there's no ethical reason that your efforts to do a bit of good for others should require you to shun a federal program to which you are entitled. Ideally, of course, those who work so altruistically would make a decent living -- or at least a living -- and not have to struggle at the subsistence level. It is sad when soldiers or anti-poverty workers are so poorly paid that they need food stamps to feed their families.
 As far as I know, not a single wealthy person declined his tax cut and sent the I.R.S. extra money; similarly, you need feel no reluctance to participate lawfully in a government program meant to benefit those without wealth.


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); FOOD STAMPS (84%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BANK ROBBERY (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ROBBERY (70%); POLICE FORCES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (62%); EVIDENCE (52%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



426 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2981 words

HEADLINE: You Want Any Fruit With That Big Mac?

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
EACH day, 50,000 shiny, fire-engine-red Gala apples work their way through a sprawling factory in Swedesboro, N.J. Inside, 26 machines wash them, core them, peel them, seed them, slice them and chill them. At the end of the line, they are dunked in a solution of calcium ascorbate and then deposited into little green bags featuring a jogging Ronald McDonald.
 From there, the bags make their way in refrigerated trucks to refrigerated containers in cavernous distribution centers, and then to thousands of McDonald's restaurants up and down the Eastern Seaboard. No more than 14 days after leaving the plant, the fruit will take the place of French fries in some child's Happy Meal.
 The apple slices, called Apple Dippers, are a symbol of how McDonald's is trying to offer healthier food to its customers -- and to answer the many critics who contend that most of its menu is of poor nutritional quality. McDonald's has also introduced ''premium'' salads, in Caesar, California Cobb and Bacon Ranch varieties, a lineup that will soon be joined by a salad of grapes, walnuts -- and, of course, apples. 
 It remains to be seen whether these new offerings will assuage the concerns of public health officials and other critics of McDonald's highly processed fat- and calorie-laden sandwiches, drinks and fries. So far, they have not -- at least not entirely. But this much is already clear: Just as its staple burger-and-fries meals have made McDonald's the largest single buyer of beef and potatoes in the country, its new focus on fresh fruits and vegetables is making the company a major player in the $80 billion American produce industry.
 The potential impact goes beyond dollars and cents. Some people believe that McDonald's could influence not only the volume, variety and prices of fruit and produce in the nation but also how they are grown. 
 The company now buys more fresh apples than any other restaurant or food service operation, by far. This year, it expects to buy 54 million pounds of fresh apples -- about 135 million individual pieces of fruit. That is up from zero apples just two years ago. (This does not include fruit used to make juice and pies, which use a different quality of apple.) 
 And it is not just apples: McDonald's is also among the top five food-service buyers of grape tomatoes and spring mix lettuce -- a combination of greens like arugula, radicchio and frisee. The boom has been so big and so fast that growers of other produce, like carrots and oranges, are scrambling for a piece of the action.
 OF course, other fast-food chains have similar salads and fruit choices on their menus, but they have not had a comparable influence on the market because of their smaller size. Burger King, for example, has 7,600 restaurants in the United States, while Wendy's has 5,900 and Arby's has 3,300. McDonald's has 13,700.
 While salads have been offered at McDonald's in some form or another since the late 1980's, this is the first time they have been big sellers. And Apple Dippers are the first fruit the chain has sold that did not reside between two layers of pie crust.
 Missa Bay, the company that runs the Swedesboro plant -- one of six McDonald's apple slicing facilities around the country -- could not be happier about that. 
 ''McDonald's is really pioneering the concept of ready-to-eat sliced apples,'' said Sal Tedesco, the chief operating officer of Missa Bay, which built the new production line specifically to process apple slices for McDonald's.
 In a few months, Missa Bay, owned by Ready Pac Produce of Irwindale, Calif., will also be supplying roughly one-quarter of the 13,700 restaurants with sliced green apples for the new fruit salad, which is scheduled to be introduced in May. Mr. Tedesco said that these two items would increase Missa Bay's revenue by at least 10 percent this year.
 With those kinds of numbers comes power. Just as the enormous size of McDonald's once helped the company turn the nation's beef, chicken and potato industries into highly mechanized, consistent, efficient and low-cost businesses, McDonald's is using its purchasing decisions to build a reliable supply of fresh fruits and vegetables that meet its exacting specifications.
 At the U.S. Apple Association's annual marketing conference in Chicago last summer, Mitch Smith, the McDonald's director of quality systems in the United States, told a crowd of growers, many from the big apple-producing states of Washington and New York, that if they wanted to work with McDonald's, they should grow more Cameo and Pink Lady apples. Historically, growers have produced relatively few apples of these varieties, but McDonald's likes them for their crispness and flavor. 
 Already, Cameo production in Washington State is up 58 percent in the current crop year from a year earlier, according to the Yakima Valley Growers-Shippers Association.
 Eventually, a bigger supply of certain varieties will drive prices down, which will be good for McDonald's. But right now, the company's huge presence in the market is keeping prices high. James R. Cranney Jr., vice president of the apple association, said that McDonald's was one of the reasons that apple prices had not declined this year, despite favorable growing conditions that produced an abundant crop. ''When you've got such a big buyer like that it's going to keep the prices from falling,'' Mr. Cranney said.
 If the new power that McDonald's exerts over the produce industry ends up reducing prices and squeezing margins, he said, it would be a trade-off that many growers and processors seem willing to accept. ''Apple consumption has been flat over the past 10 to 15 years,'' he said. ''This is exactly what the apple industry needs because we think it's going to increase consumption.''
 J.M. Procacci, chief operating officer of the Procacci Brothers Sales Corporation in Cedarville, N.J., said sales of grape tomatoes, climbing for the past five years, had received a particular boost from their inclusion in the McDonald's premium salads. Since early 2003, grape tomato sales in the United States have risen 25 percent; he attributes a significant part of the gain to McDonald's.
 For decades, of course, McDonald's has been buying produce like iceberg lettuce, tomatoes and onions for its hamburgers and other sandwiches. But the premium salads -- unlike their poor-selling predecessors, the Shaker salads that came in plastic cups -- are an entree and have found a considerable following.
 Michael Donahue, the McDonald's vice president for communication and customer satisfaction, said the salads now on the company's menu were among the most successful introductions in the last 10 years. While the double cheeseburger is still the most beloved single item -- 1.5 billion of them are ordered every year in the United States -- Mr. Donahue said the company has sold more than 300 million of the premium salads since their introduction in March 2003.
 At $4 a salad, that translates to roughly $600 million a year, or 10 percent of domestic revenue for McDonald's last year. ''The salads have definitely been a driver for McDonald's sales in the U.S.,'' said John Glass, an analyst at CIBC.
 Mr. Donahue conceded that the Shaker salads ''did not resonate with customers'' in part because customers did not like the idea of eating salad from a plastic cup. The company sold about 170 million of them in the 18 months they were on sale. 
 At the McDonald's corporate headquarters in Oak Brook, Ill., the excitement over the new salads has as much to do with public opinion as rising sales. Five months before the salads were introduced, the company had to contend with a debate over what role it has played in the nation's expanding waistlines after two overweight, burger-loving New York teenagers filed a lawsuit accusing McDonald's of making them fat. A judge dismissed the case, but a federal appeals court last month overruled that decision, allowing the suit to proceed. Many had already come to see McDonald's as a symbol of everything that is wrong with the American food supply.
 ''Salads have changed the way people think of our brand,'' said Wade Thoma, vice president for menu management in the United States. ''It tells people that we are very serious about offering things people feel comfortable eating.''
 Apple Dippers, which come with caramel dipping sauce and are offered either as part of a Happy Meal or sold separately for $1, do not have the same blockbuster status as the salads. But they have also given McDonald's customers some alternatives to burgers, chicken nuggets and fried potatoes. Mr. Thoma said the salads help explain why the company is serving one million more Americans now than it was a year ago. Many of these customers, he said, are mothers who feel better about giving their children Happy Meals if they come with fruit rather than fries.
 McDonald's executives say they hope to put even more fresh fruits and vegetables on the menu. ''We're always thinking about this,'' said Mark Lepine, the director of food innovation and development. ''We're looking at whether we can leverage the Apple Dipper concept for carrots.''
 That is music to the ears of Grimmway Farms, the country's largest producer of carrots. ''We think snack packs of baby carrots really make sense for the fast-food environment,'' said Lisa McNeese, vice president for food service sales. ''Today we're growing sweeter varieties and improving flavor.''
 The potential payoff from suddenly moving a product into 13,700 restaurants is so big that the orange industry is kicking itself for not being better positioned for the fast-food market. Oranges are not sold at McDonald's or the other big chains, with the exception of canned mandarin oranges at Wendy's. ''We've got to pool our resources and do a better job of processing oranges in an economical fashion,'' said Joel Nelsen, president of California Citrus Mutual, a trade association of citrus growers.
 Mr. Lepine says he gets frequent calls from fruit and vegetable growers, industry associations and processors wanting to enlighten him on the attributes of their products and to offer him taste tests. At times, he says, his desk is stacked with bags of lettuce and stalks of broccoli.
 BUT there are limits to what Mr. Lepine and his team can do. ''There has to be a willingness on the part of the customer to buy these products,'' said Mr. Lepine, who has been working on menus at McDonald's for seven years. ''We only sell things that people want to buy.''
 For instance, McDonald's does not want to sell something that people may have readily available at home. It learned that lesson from the disappointment of Go-Gurt, a squeezable tube of fruit yogurt that McDonald's sold in a deal with Go-Gurt's manufacturer, General Mills. Despite Go-Gurt's popularity in supermarkets, it didn't sell well at McDonald's and was pulled within a year. ''Kids think of McDonald's as a treat, and it's not a treat if you have it at home,'' said Vicki Spiller, the director of new product purchasing.
 McDonald's also faces the problem of trying to satisfy contradictory consumer demands. Maura Havenga, senior vice president for supply chain management in the United States, said that a lot of McDonald's customers say in focus groups that they want healthy food, but less than 10 percent actually buy the salads. ''Everyone says they want a veggie burger, but we sell about two or three a day in stores that sell still them,'' she said.
 For that reason, McDonald's is cautious in introducing products, especially nontraditional ones like sliced apples. Mr. Lepine's team took three years just to get the internal approval to move ahead with consumer testing on the Apple Dippers. It took an additional year to complete the required four stages of focus group research.
 Mr. Lepine was among those who wanted to sell apple slices without the sugary dipping sauce. But because McDonald's insists that all new products get a clear thumbs-up from more than 70 percent of its test customers, dipless apples did not make the cut.
 ''The cost of failure is extreme,'' Ms. Spiller explained. ''We have 26 million customers we serve every day in the U.S., and we've got to make sure we get it right.''
 It helps if healthy food looks nice, too. The premium salads were designed, in part, for aesthetic appeal. Cheap and reliable iceberg and romaine account for 90 percent of the lettuce in the salad; the 10 percent smattering of spring mix is intended to make the salads more attractive to the eye as well as the palate. 
 The carrots in the salads, for example, are sliced so thin that customers are lucky if they end up eating one-quarter of a small carrot, but the delicate slices don't fall to a puddle at the bottom of the bowl. ''Women look at the salads and say, 'It's beautiful,''' said Ms. Spiller, proudly. About 80 percent of salad buyers at McDonald's are women, she added.
 Healthier fare does not come cheap, for McDonald's or its customers. Fruits and vegetables are much more expensive and complicated to ship and store than meat and potatoes. Unlike meat patties, chicken breasts, French fries and other items on the McDonald's menu, salads and fruit cannot be frozen and stored for a month in distribution centers. Shipments of Apple Dippers and salad components leave McDonald's warehouses several times a week, which is part of the reason salads cost $4 and everything else can be had for less than $3.
 The care required for perishable food also raises the costs. Spring mix is much more delicate than iceberg and romaine lettuce and is twice as expensive, said Bill Zinke, vice president for marketing at Ready Pac, which supplies McDonald's with all three kinds. ''It's almost like you have to protect every leaf,'' he said.
 Similarly, grape tomatoes, which dot the lettuce on McDonald's salads, are more than double the price of plum or standard tomatoes.
 Despite the fragility of the salads and fruit, McDonald's says it does not use any artificial preservatives or additives to keep them fresh longer. The calcium ascorbate in the Apple Dippers is not much different from the orange or lemon juice that many people pour on their homemade fruit salad to keep it from browning.
 At Ready Pac's plant in Irwindale, Calif., oxygen is sucked out of the large lettuce packing bags and replaced with nitrogen, an inert gas. This is the same process used on bags of lettuce sold in supermarkets, and, as a result, the McDonald's supply of spring mix lasts about the same as they do: 14 days. Because of that, said Mr. Smith, the McDonald's executive, ''we have to have a very tight-knit distribution network.''
 PRESERVATIVES were a big issue for Newman's Own, which is responsible for supplying dressing for the salads. When McDonald's first approached the company in early 2002, Paul Newman, the actor who is its chief executive, made it clear that the arrangement would have to be on his terms. One condition was that the company would not use artificial preservatives.
 ''When we told them we wouldn't do salad dressings with preservatives, they were a little scared,'' recalled Tom Indoe, the chief operating officer at Newman's Own. ''We taught them they really didn't need them.'' He added that McDonald's was eager to work with Newman's because of the company's all-natural products and reputation for corporate responsibility.
 Despite his initial reservations about working with McDonald's, Mr. Newman went ahead because sales to a customer of McDonald's size could improve his company's bottom line -- and therefore increase the amount it gives to charity. Newman's Own contributes all its profits to charity; working with McDonald's has increased that amount by more than $3 million a year.
 As part of the three-year deal, though, Mr. Newman has approval over all advertisements and promotions that feature the premium salads. That represents an unusual concession for a company like McDonald's, which is accustomed to calling the shots. So far, nothing has been rejected, Mr. Indoe said.
 Some critics bristle at the notion that McDonald's has somehow become healthier simply because it uses natural dressings and sells salads and some fruit. ''Nearly all the entree choices at McDonald's -- as well as Burger King and Wendy's -- are still all of poor nutritional value,'' said Margo Wootan, director of nutritional policy at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a food activist group. ''I applaud them for making those changes, but there's still a lot more that needs to be done.''
 Ms. Wootan also points out that the Apple Dipper caramel sauce, which is packaged separately, has nine grams of sugar, one-quarter of the total recommended daily limit under new guidelines of the Department of Agriculture.
 Other advocacy groups said that they were hopeful that McDonald's would one day use its power not only to get better prices and greater supply, but also to change the way the produce industry operates -- for the better. Ronnie Cummins, national director of the Organic Consumers Association, an advocacy group based in Little Marais, Minn., said he would like to see McDonald's buy some organic products, which he believes are more healthful for consumers.
 In a 2003 report on pesticides in produce, the Environmental Working Group, a public-policy outfit based in Washington, ranked apples as the third-most-contaminated produce group, after peaches and strawberries, in terms of pesticide residue. The findings were based on tests done by the Agriculture Department and the Food and Drug Administration from 1992 to 2001.
 ''McDonald's could have a huge impact,'' Mr. Cummins said. ''They could be the company that changes agriculture toward a more organic and sustainable model.'' It may sound far-fetched, but from a company that's come a long way from the days of selling mainly hamburgers and fries, anything is possible.


GRAPHIC: Photos: By offering Apple Dippers and other products, McDonald's hopes to ease criticism of its menu. At right, workers sort apple slices at a plant in Swedesboro, N.J. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A grader inspects tomatoes at a Procacci Brothers facility in Cedarville, N.J. The grape tomatoes will be used in McDonald's premium salads. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)
(Photos by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''A Mighty Appetite''McDonald's buys so much food that its product decisions affect United States farmers. One of its new products, Apple Dippers, instantly made McDonald's the biggest apple buyer in the nation.Approximate annual purchases by McDonald's: BEEF -- 1 billion pounds'04 U.S. production: 24.5 billion poundsMcDonald's share: 4.1%Approximate annual purchases by McDonald's: POTATOES -- 1 billion pounds'04 U.S. production: 45.6 billion poundsMcDonald's share: 2.2%Approximate annual purchases by McDonald's: LETTUCE -- 110 million pounds'04 U.S. production: 220 billion poundsMcDonald's share: 0.05%Approximate annual purchases by McDonald's: TOMATOES -- 50 million pounds'04 U.S. production: 72 billion poundsMcDonald's share: 0.07%Approximate annual purchases by McDonald's: FRESH APPLES -- 54 million pounds ('05 expected)'04 U.S. production: 10 billion poundsMcDonald's share: 0.5%Approximate annual purchases by McDonald's: GRAPES -- 11 million pounds ('05 expected)'04 U.S. production: 12 billion poundsMcDonald's share: 0.09%(A planned fruit-and-walnut salad will contain apples and grapes.)What is a billion pounds? 500,000 tons, or:4 Washington Monuments + 3 Statues of Liberty + 2 Brooklyn Bridges + 2 Eiffel Towers + 12 Airbus A380's + 26 Male elephants(Sources by McDonald's
 Department of Agriculture)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (71%); FOOD PRICES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (52%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (51%) Restaurants; Apples; Salads; Diet and Nutrition; Fruit; Vegetables

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Mcdonald's Corp

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%)

PERSON: Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



427 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: The Revenge of Ellen Swallow

 BODY:
Back in the post-Civil War era, Ellen Swallow yearned to get a graduate degree in chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which did not admit women. She wangled her way into classes by doing housework for her professors. ''Perhaps the fact that I am not a Radical,'' she optimistically wrote to her parents, ''and that I do not scorn womanly duties but claim it as a privilege to clean up and sort of supervise the room and sew things is winning me stronger allies than anything else.'' Faculty members, it turned out, were happy to let her keep darning their socks but not to give her an advanced degree. Eventually, thwarted in her attempts to get a job in chemistry, she married a metallurgy professor and invented home economics.
 Generations of women with a bent for science managed to get college teaching jobs because Ellen Swallow Richards figured out a way to connect their field to the analysis of cleaning products. It was something, but not exactly ideal. Today -- after another century of discrimination and sexual harassment in the laboratory -- female scientists are getting an increasingly large percentage of all undergraduate degrees and they get a little prickly if an extremely powerful man raises the question of whether their field has an inherent sexual divide. 
 All of which, of course, takes us to Lawrence Summers and his china-smashing remarks on gender and academia. Back in January, the president of Harvard shared his thoughts on why so few women get tenure at the best schools at a conference on ''Diversifying the Science and Engineering Workforce.'' His conclusion -- couched in many assurances that the jury was still out -- was that female scientists are distracted by the demands of family, and that ''there are issues of intrinsic aptitude.''
 Dr. Summers told his audience that he wanted to be controversial, and if that's so he must be extremely gratified by the results. Several apologies and clarifications later, Harvard now has two brand-new task forces on recruitment of women and a restive faculty that seems to be teetering on the verge of revolt. Last week's release of the long-sought transcript of his remarks is not likely to improve things much. Dr. Summers compared the shortage of female scientists at the highest ranks of academia to, among other things, the shortage of Jewish farmers, and white men in the National Basketball Association. (Coming soon: Female Biologists Can't Jump.)
 Dr. Summers's defenders say he is being tarred for the very intellectual openness that places like Harvard are supposed to encourage. Even in the best of circumstances, it's questionable whether the head of an institution that has a bad reputation when it comes to promoting female scientists was the perfect person to free-associate on why women have trouble getting tenure. However, the transcript provides the best possible refutation of the charge of political correctness. Whatever Dr. Summers was doing at the conference, it had nothing to do with serious intellectual inquiry. ''I don't think anybody actually has a clue'' was one operative phrase. ''I don't remember who had told me'' was another. It was every woman's nightmare of what a university president thinks privately about equal opportunity. 
 We have been informed many, many times in the past that Dr. Summers likes to make waves, and who could blame him? It's fun to toss out provocative ideas and watch as everyone's ears redden and all eyes turn to the daring speaker who started the hubbub. But it's an exercise better restricted to radio talk show hosts than the heads of major academic institutions. Harvard is supposed to be teaching its students not just how to start a controversy, but also how to have an intelligent conversation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); ENGINEERING (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); MEN (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); BIOLOGY (68%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (67%); TRANSCRIPTS (64%); BASKETBALL (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



428 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Unassisted Living

BYLINE: By Emily Nussbaum. 
Emily Nussbaum, the culture editor of New York magazine, writes frequently about poetry.

 BODY:

THE DISPLACED OF CAPITAL
By Anne Winters.
62 pp. The University of Chicago Press.
Paper, $14.
 ANNE WINTERS is a nature poet. But where other poets might gaze into the woods, Winters has metal and money on her mind. Her last book -- the acclaimed debut ''The Key to the City'' -- was published in 1986, but the wait turns out to have been worth it, for her second effort is a revelation, a daring exploration of New York that is at once high-flown, enraged, philosophical and subtle, Marxist and Wordsworthian, deeply domestic and focused with a spectacular riskiness on the economic engines of inequity.
 Why risky? Take the title, ''The Displaced of Capital'': it reads like the warning sign of a dissertation. And yet nothing about Winters's writing feels like homework. Using themes others have mined for agitprop, she builds elegies to urban poverty that balance between lyricism and manifesto. In ''Cold-Water Flats,'' neglected tenants survive a brutal winter even as ''the zinc-lidded bathtubs in their kitchens swarm / with gravid, amber-bellied roaches.'' With a housing inspector's precision, she ticks off a series of grinding frustrations, ending with the flow of water from heatless taps: ''at faucet-mouth, numbed lips, unceasing arrival, the water / which later, I think, will seem to have been / most precious -- being useful, humble, chaste.''
 It's a conclusion that in less controlled hands could seem like mere romanticism. But Winters's grander language is endlessly working toward a larger purpose: to dramatize Manhattan's darker contrasts. Helicopters drop ''like handkerchiefs from the evening'' while homeless families huddle on cots. An opera house performance of ''Tosca'' echoes underground to a hidden workman. Lucky lives bump against ''the thousand / stratagems of those who simply must not spend.'' Everywhere, money is the slippery foliage underfoot. In one poem, anxious bank customers watch the ''moist bills and coins / counted out on linoleum sills''; in another, a drug dealer's payments travel to a foreign country ''metamorphosed, moving / in electrons on a copper strip.'' Even a friend's overdose evokes a predawn bus trip to her apartment and ''the first coins dropping in the driver's metal bowl.''
 Winters's concern with power is not simply abstract. In ''An Immigrant Woman,'' the narrator's tentative friendship with a Guatemalan maid is shattered when the woman's daughter dies in a building collapse. The tragedy is a failure of city management, but it also exposes the tentative materials of these women's friendship: love, but also guilt and resentment, the relationship of the immigrant and the native. In ''One-Forty-Sixth Street: My Stepmother's Chloral'' (part of a series called ''A Sonnet Map of Manhattan''), the narrator's gleeful response to escaping from her abusive stepmother ends abruptly with her recognition of that emotion's unsettling echo: ''I lived my factitious joy as you lived your factitious hate.'' 
 In the concluding poem, ''The First Verse,'' Winters initially seems to revel at last in sheer language: she is examining, word by word, the first line of the Torah. As she reads the commentaries, she lingers over Rashi's insight that ''the world is made for Torah.'' But even in her own ecstasy, Winters promptly tucks in a telling parenthetical (''The lovely sentence -- the terrible world''), a reminder that might act as a motto for her own writing. In Winters's idiosyncratic vision, poetic language is capable of more than ornamentation. Beauty can jolt, and words -- however gleaming -- can act not as a glaze but as a stripper, eating through easy beliefs to the truth beneath.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jeanne Breslin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POETRY (91%); WRITERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (78%); COINS & COINAGE (77%); LITERATURE (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (73%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); FAMILY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Emily Nussbaum; Anne Winters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



429 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3230 words

HEADLINE: Taking Care of Business, His Way

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and GLEN JUSTICE

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush signed the Class Action Fairness Act into law last Friday at a White House ceremony, Thomas J. Donohue, the president and chief executive of the United States Chamber of Commerce, had a front-row seat. Though Mr. Donohue did not take a bow, he could have. After all, he and his troops had been fighting for years for such a change. The new legislation will push class-action cases out of state courts, which are often more accommodating to such lawsuits, and into federal courts. 
 ''We worked it from one end of this country to the other -- morning, noon and night -- in every way we could think of,'' Mr. Donohue said in an interview a few days before the ceremony. ''That's our strength. We have an ability over longer periods of time to create perceptions, to educate people, persuade them and get stuff done.'' 
 That Mr. Donohue and the chamber have been getting stuff done is beyond dispute. Besides helping to effect change in the legal system, the chamber has also succeeded in stalling a proposal by the Securities and Exchange Commission that would have allowed shareholders more say in how their directors are selected. And the chamber has begun to challenge provisions in the Sarbanes-Oxley law, the corporate reform legislation that followed the collapses of Enron and WorldCom. 
 But now some people in Washington are beginning to wonder if the Chamber of Commerce is overreaching. Late last year, the organization's legal arm sued the S.E.C. over a rule requiring a majority of a mutual fund company's directors, as well as its chairman, to be independent. And last month the chamber filed a brief in support of Siebel Systems, a software company that has been twice sued by the S.E.C., accused of running afoul of the rule that requires companies to disclose material information to all investors at the same time. 
 Critics, meanwhile, are raising questions about Mr. Donohue's work as a director at several companies. He serves on the boards of Qwest Communications, the telecommunications concern, as well as Sunrise Senior Living, Union Pacific and XM Satellite Radio Holdings. 
 Like any other director, Mr. Donohue has a fiduciary duty to represent shareholders. But one independent investment advisory firm has raised concerns about whether he has fullfilled that duty at two companies. And some institutional shareholders and a government watchdog group have questioned decisions he has made as a member of these boards.
 ''I think the chamber has shown contempt for shareholders, and I attribute that to Donohue personally,'' said Nell Minow, editor at the Corporate Library, an independent research firm specializing in corporate governance. ''I would not be surprised to see him targeted this year by shareholders as the director they love to hate.''
 AS the man who brought the United States Chamber of Commerce back from the dead, Mr. Donohue and the organization are now practically synonymous. The typical trade group represents a single industry or a narrow band of the business world; the chamber, however, is the nation's largest federation of companies and associations. It has more than three million members, from businesses of every size, sector and region; its 2,800 affiliated state and local chambers give it a presence in nearly every state and Congressional district.
 Through Mr. Donohue's efforts, the chamber has become the most visible and effective business lobby in the country. If money is a measure of muscle, the chamber is Herculean. It spent more than $53 million on lobbying in 2004, more than any organization has ever spent in a year, according to PoliticalMoneyLine, which tracks federal lobbying.
 The chamber also wades deeply into politics. By its own count, during the most recent election, it deployed 215 people in 31 states, sent 3.7 million pieces of mail, made 5.6 million phone calls and sent more than 30 million e-mail messages on behalf of its candidates. Although it is difficult to attribute the outcome of any election to any one group, more than 90 percent of the Congressional candidates endorsed by the chamber won.
 The chamber has several affiliates that push its issues. For example, the Institute for Legal Reform presses for business-friendly changes to the civil justice system, from the legislation governing class-action litigation that passed last week to bills dealing with medical malpractice suits. 
 One of the chamber's most powerful weapons is its legal unit, the National Chamber Litigation Center. Known internally as ''the law firm,'' the center works through the courts to challenge government regulations and help companies win cases. It was active in 79 cases last year; one was the suit against the S.E.C. 
 Presiding over this powerhouse is Mr. Donohue, 66, whose capacity for blunt talk is as striking as his white hair and blue eyes. ''My job here is to lead the place, to set the tone, to set the character of the institution, to be out publicly on issues of high significance to the business community,'' he said.
 Whether flying in a private plane to talk with chief executives and raise money -- he had more than 200 C.E.O. meetings last year -- or traveling to Capitol Hill in a chauffeured car to confer with Congressional leaders, he has left his mark on the organization since he took its helm on Labor Day in 1997.
 One measure of his efforts at the chamber is its bankroll. During his tenure, revenue has almost tripled, reaching $135 million last year. Scores of companies donate six- and seven-figure amounts to the chamber, secure in the knowledge that the chamber does not have to disclose its donors or how much they give. As the chamber's chief executive, Mr. Donohue makes $1.65 million in annual salary. 
 Sitting in his large, wood-paneled office with a view of the White House across the street, he mimed an accordion player, spreading his arms broadly, as he explained the chamber's interest in a host of issues. To varying degrees, the group is pushing for changes to laws and regulations that govern bankruptcy, taxation, trade, immigration and just about any other matter that affects United States companies. 
 He brings his hands together to show how the chamber narrowly focuses people and money on priorities. ''We have to always remember our accordion,'' he said. ''We have to reach wide to understand and to serve our members and to help them, and we have to squeeze narrow to get ultimate focus and pressure.''
 For a man who fights battles for the business world, Mr. Donohue has had scant experience actually working in it. He graduated from Adelphi University on Long Island with a master's degree in business administration and later became a vice president at Fairfield University in Connecticut. He went on to become regional assistant postmaster general in San Francisco and in New York City, before eventually being named deputy assistant postmaster general in Washington. 
 In 1984, he joined the American Trucking Association, a lobbying organization in Washington, as president and chief executive. Thirteen years later, he joined the Chamber of Commerce, then moribund. 
 ''What we basically were faced with was an extraordinary brand name that had fallen into some disrepair,'' he said. ''That disrepair was on the financial side, where the revenues had dried up.'' He also said that membership needed to increase and that the chamber's focus needed to be sharper.
 He defends all of the chamber's actions in the public policy arena, saying the organization operates ''with high integrity'' and ''good manners.'' 
 ''There's no question that when you get as big as we are and spend as much money as we do, there are going to be some people, probably rightly so in some instances, that are going to be critical of what we do or of the individuals that do it,'' he said.
 When it comes to regulations dealing with corporate governance or accounting, Mr. Donohue has called for moderation. In that spirit, he has repeatedly criticized Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, who has brought prosecutions against brokerage firms, insurance companies and mutual funds. 
 Last week, Mr. Spitzer returned fire: ''Tom Donohue has never once found a crime that he couldn't justify, as long as it was committed by one of his dues-paying members,'' he said in an interview with Fox News.
 A large part of the chamber's job appears to be taking unpopular stances that its members, by themselves, are unwilling or unable to pursue. ''If individual companies went out and sued the S.E.C. or said some of the things that I have said about the need to come back to some balance in corporate governance and accounting, they would open themselves up to extraordinary risk and criticism,'' he said.
 ''We are an advocacy organization,'' he added. ''I believe that advocates should be enthusiastic and should be energetic, and I do believe they should be aggressive.''
 Perhaps the best example of the chamber's influence is its long-running campaign to pass pro-business changes to the legal system, an issue known in Washington shorthand as ''tort reform.'' To that end, the chamber has led a highly effective charge against a major Washington lobby willing to spend heavily opposing the efforts: the trial lawyers. Over the years, much of the work was done by the Institute for Legal Reform, which Mr. Donohue created in 1999 to gather money and resources to focus on the fight.
 Since then, the institute has spent more than $72 million on lobbyists, research, advertising and other weapons to revamp the legal system around the country. The institute ''was designed to be the pointy end of the stick,'' said Stanton D. Anderson, the chamber's executive vice president and chief legal officer. ''It was designed to rattle around in the trial lawyers' faces and get a reaction.''
 THE institute's tactics have been anything but typical. It has helped push legislation in individual states, gaining victories in Texas and Mississippi. It also sought to protect these changes by supporting state candidates for attorney general and the Supreme Court. It was involved in 16 state races in the 2004 elections, Mr. Anderson said.
 In the national election last year, the chamber gave $3 million to seed the November Fund, a group that criticized Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice presidential candidate, who was a trial lawyer before he was elected to the Senate.
 The institute even helped to start a newspaper, The Record, in Madison County, Ill., a place that attracts droves of class-action lawsuits because the courts there are considered favorable. The chamber provided start-up financing for the paper, which is charged with reporting and publicizing the action in the county's courtrooms.
 ''Are they anti-trial lawyer? You bet,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''That's their focus, but their principle focus is to cover what's happening.'' 
 Alongside the institute is the National Chamber Litigation Center, which says it works to shape public policy on important legal questions of national concern to American business. But the organization has also filed briefs on behalf of companies, including some on whose boards Mr. Donohue serves or whose executives are on the chamber's board.
 Last September, it filed a brief in support of Union Pacific, urging the United States Supreme Court to review a 1998 Arkansas Supreme Court decision that upheld a $25 million punitive damage award against the railroad related to a fatal accident. The request is pending.
 In 2003, the litigation center urged the United States Supreme Court to review an Illinois Court of Appeals decision dismissing the claims of the Overnite Corporation -- the trucking unit of Union Pacific that was spun off that year -- to recover money for damage caused by the Teamsters during violent picketing. The Supreme Court declined to hear the case. 
 Also in 2003, the chamber urged the Supreme Court to review a Montana Supreme Court decision requiring a broker ''to explain the consequences'' of an arbitration clause before it was enforced. Such clauses require brokerage firm customers to bring any suits they may have against the firm in arbitration rather than in the courts. 
 The brief was filed on behalf of Edward D. Jones & Company, a firm run by John W. Bachmann, the chairman of the chamber's board. In it, the chamber argued that the Montana court's decision imposed a needlessly stringent requirement. The Supreme Court declined to hear the case.
 But it is Mr. Donohue's activity as a director at four public companies that is beginning to attract the spotlight. Last year, Glass Lewis & Company, an institutional advisory firm in San Francisco, recommended that shareholders at Qwest and Union Pacific withhold their votes for Mr. Donohue. The firm said that he was a member of the compensation committees at both companies that had doled out excessive executive pay. And at Qwest, Glass Lewis's analysts said, he could not be considered independent from management, since the company made a $100,000 donation to the chamber in 2003. 
 Mr. Donohue is quick to defend his service on corporate boards, offering both broad explanations and detailed rebuttals to his critics. ''I have nothing in that category of my life that I'm not very pleased about,'' he said. ''I'm not unhappy about the board service. I believe it has served me and the chamber very well.''
 The $106,000 in cash retainers and the thousands of stock options he received for his director work for 2003 are not a motivation, he said. With few exceptions, he said, he does not take his payments in cash. ''I won't touch any of that money until the whole deal is over,'' he said. ''By the way, in Qwest, depending how it all comes out, there may not be anything there after all that time and energy.'' Qwest is the weakest of the big telecommunications companies, and is seeking a partner that could make it a more formidable competitor.
 Mr. Donohue says the board positions offer him firsthand insight into how corporations operate and the challenges they face. ''It's like getting a Ph.D. in dealing with the government of the United States, with the markets, with international finance, with the press, with the regulators and with the unbelievable changes going on in the business community,'' he said.
 The insight helps him run the chamber, he said, adding that his board work also ''allows me a series of relationships and contacts that I otherwise might not have.''
 BUT who benefits from these contacts? And is Mr. Donohue looking out for the shareholders in his role as corporate director? Some of the relationships seem to have benefited him and his family personally. 
 In November 2003, his son, Thomas J. Donohue Jr., an investment banker at Adelphi L.L.C. in Washington, was named to the board of the Overnite Corporation, the company spun off by Union Pacific. He serves on the board's compensation committee and its nominating and corporate governance committee; he received a $45,000 retainer last year, half in cash and half in stock, as well as 2,000 options.
 Mr. Donohue said, ''I had zero to do with getting him on that board.'' The younger Mr. Donohue, 40, did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
 Before Sunrise Senior Living went public and the senior Mr. Donohue became a director, he struck a private deal with the company that turned out to be quite lucrative for him. 
 Back in 1993, Mr. Donohue and his wife, Elizabeth, invested $500,000 in a property it partly owned.
 He joined the Sunrise board in 1995. During the next year, just before it offered shares to the public for the first time, Sunrise bought the ownership stake back from Mr. and Mrs. Donohue for stock worth $1,050,000 at that time. Add the $95,000 that the investment generated in income during the three years he owned it, and Mr. Donohue more than doubled his money on the deal. At the time of the I.P.O., he also received options then worth $200,000. 
 He said that the deal was years ago and that it took place before the company went public. ''I was an absolute independent director because I sold that property at the time the company went public,'' he said. ''It doesn't compromise my views at all.''
 MR. DONOHUE'S work as chairman of the compensation committee at Union Pacific has also raised questions among critics. As is often the case at public companies, executive pay is linked to its performance. How that performance is measured can mean the difference between moderate and more munificent pay.
 In 2001, Union Pacific's board approved an incentive pay program that would grant cash and stock at the end of a three-year period. The awards would be granted, the program stated, if the company's stock traded above $70 for 20 days in a row or if company earnings for the period totaled at least $13.50 a share. 
 In late 2003, it became clear that the company might miss both targets. The compensation committee chose to include the proceeds from the Overnite sale in the earnings computation. That put the executives over the top for the cash and stock awards, even though proceeds from a sale are not typically included in earnings. 
 For 2003, Richard K. Davidson, Union Pacific's chief executive, received $9.5 million in salary, long-term incentive pay and other compensation as well as $4.5 million in restricted stock and 325,000 options.
 At the time of the deal, the company maintained that adding the proceeds to earnings was appropriate. But investors frowned on the deal. Glass Lewis said the members of the compensation committee had failed in their duty to Union Pacific stockholders as a result of the questionable earnings computation. Mr. Donohue declined to comment.
 His involvement with Qwest and Union Pacific has also caught the eye of Public Citizen's Congress Watch, a watchdog group that opposed the class-action bill and wrote a report focusing on Mr. Donohue, to be released tomorrow. 
 Citing Qwest's long list of run-ins with telecom and securities regulators and Union Pacific's troubling safety record, which includes a high rate of train accidents, the report is severely critical of Mr. Donohue and the chamber's efforts on tort reform. ''Donohue is a steward of two companies that serve as vivid examples for why we need a strong civil justice system and vigorous regulatory oversight,'' according to a draft of the report.
 Of course, individual board members cannot be held solely responsible for all the actions of the multibillion-dollar businesses they help guide. And little is known about the positions, arguments and recommendations that Mr. Donohue tendered as a director at either company, because public companies rarely disclose directors' deliberations.
 And, to some degree, Mr. Donohue's tendency to grant high executive pay that is not justified by the company's stock performance may be a throwback to the pre-Enron days when boardrooms were collegial places and directors were handpicked by the chief executive more for their loyalty than their toughness. 
 But as investor scrutiny of directors continues to rise, Mr. Donohue seems certain to remain in a harsh spotlight. 
 ''Unlike his predecessors at the chamber, he has not run a business and his actions at the chamber seem aimed at diluting the power of shareholders,'' said Greg Taxin, chief executive of Glass Lewis. ''In the eyes of many of our clients, Donohue is an odd choice for a director.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Donohue (Photo by Carol T. Powers)(pg. 1)
Thomas J. Donohue has revived the Chamber of Commerce, which spent $53 million on lobbying in 2004. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Fund-Raiser''Since Thomas J. Donohue became head of the Chamber of Commerce, its revenue has almost tripled.Mr. Donohue joins Sept.1997Graph tracks United States Chamber of Commerce's lobbying expenses* and operating revenue from 1990 to 2004.Note: Figures include Institute for Legal Reform and other national affiliates.*Disclosed under a law passed in 1995.(Source by U.S. Chamber of Commerce)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Other Hats''Thomas J. Donohue's board membershipsCompany: Sunrise Senior LivingYears there: 10Board committees: Compensation (chairman)
governance
audit2003 COMPENSATIONCASH: --STOCK: --OPTIONS: 27,000Company: Union PacificYears there: 7Board committees: Compensation (chairman)
audit
executive2003 COMPENSATIONCASH: $60,000STOCK: $45,000OPTIONS: 2,750Company: XM Satellite RadioYears there: 6Board committees: Compensation
nominating2003 COMPENSATIONCASH: $16,000STOCK: --OPTIONS: 10,000Company: Qwest CommunicationsYears there: 4Board committees: Compensation
 governance2003 COMPENSATIONCASH: $30,000STOCK: --OPTIONS: --(Source by company reports)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (87%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (66%); SATELLITE RADIO (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); BONDS (61%) United States Economy; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Law and Legislation; Elections; Boards of Directors; Suits and Litigation; United States Economy; Accounting and Accountants; Stocks and Bonds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (81%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); CENTURYLINK INC (52%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (52%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (52%); SUNRISE SENIOR LIVING INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) Qwest Communications International Inc; Sunrise Senior Living; Union Pacific Corp; Xm Satellite Radio Inc; United States Chamber of Commerce; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (81%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); CTL (NYSE) (52%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (52%); UNP (NYSE) (52%); SRZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%); NAICS623312 ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES FOR THE ELDERLY (52%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Gretchen Morgenson; Glen Justice; Thomas J Donohue

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



430 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2155 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Words

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
ON one more steaming day in Baghdad, word filtered out to the artillery regiment that some of the younger guys were not going to get to fly home for their promised rest-and-relaxation break. Soldiers fumed. They'd spent months of long hours in this crazy place, knowing that at any moment a homemade bomb might explode, a rocket-propelled grenade might land or an Iraqi child might spit at them. 
 But though they were armed to the teeth, they chose to respond with a different kind of weapon. They stepped outside and, of all things, began to rap. 
 ''I started doing some of the most outlandish freestyle you can imagine,'' Javorn Drummond, an Army specialist from Wade, N.C., recalled the other day. ''We were just going off about how we do all the work, but we can't go home. We didn't care who could hear. We didn't have to care. I'll tell you, it felt good. At that time, they were killing us. We were working so hard we weren't getting sleep.'' 
 Moments like those, when service members turn to rap to express, and perhaps relieve, fear, aggression, resentment and exhaustion, have become a common part of life during nearly two years of war in Iraq. ''Rap is the one place,'' Specialist Drummond said, ''where you can get out your aggravation -- your anger at the people who outrank you, your frustration at the Iraqi people who just didn't understand what we were doing. You could get out everything.'' 
 If rock 'n' roll, the sounds of Jimi Hendrix, Jefferson Airplane and Creedence Clearwater Revival, was the music of American service members in Vietnam, rap may become the defining pulse for the war in Iraq. It has emerged as a rare realm where soldiers and marines, hardly known for talking about their feelings, are voicing the full range of their emotions and reactions to war. They rap about their resentment of the military hierarchy. But they also rap about their pride, their invincibility, their fallen brothers, their disdain for the enemy and their determination to succeed.
 Plenty of soldiers still listen to the twang of country music or the scream of heavy metal. Many, in fact, said that metal -- and albums like Slayer's ''Reign in Blood'' -- helped psyche them up for combat as they roared across the desert in the very first days of conflict. But a great many say it was 50 Cent, Pastor Troy or Mystikal (himself, a Gulf war veteran) that kept them chugging along in trucks and Humvees -- in one case, manning the Humvee machine gun -- miniheadphone lines tucked away under Kevlar vests. They listened to get stirred up on the way to house raids, before tense guard duty assignments or simply when they awoke to another tedious day under that enormous sun. 
 The more than 1,450 American service members killed in Iraq have also left behind traces of hip-hop scattered in the memories. Sgt. Jack Bryant Jr., of Dale City, Va., who died last Nov. 20 when a makeshift bomb blew up near his convoy in Iraq, had written rap, his father remembered the other day. And Pfc. Curtis L. Wooten, of Spanaway, Wash., who was killed on Jan. 4 when a roadside bomb exploded near his vehicle in Balad, had planned to go to school when he got home, his brother said, to become a producer in the hip-hop world. 
 As for the many soldiers who are writing and performing their own raps, their lyrics sample the lexicon of the war -- the Sandbox, I.E.D.'s (improvised explosive devices), I.C.D.C. (the Iraqi Civil Defense Corps) and Haji (the word many soldiers use derogatorily for the enemy) -- and the wide scope of their feelings about it. ''There is a great potential for ambivalence in their words,'' said Jeff Chang, author of a new book, ''Can't Stop Won't Stop: A History of the Hip-Hop Generation'' (St. Martin's Press). ''That's part of the ambivalence hip-hop has often carried. You hear two ideas in what they are saying here: An implicit critique of 'what am I doing here?' but at the same time, the idea of loyalty to your street soldiers, loyalty to your troops, loyalty to the guys you ride with.''
 It is the music of Specialist Drummond and his colleagues in the First Armored Division's Second Battalion, Third Field Artillery that makes up much of the background sounds in a new documentary, ''Gunner Palace,'' about the experience of one group of ordinary soldiers in Iraq. The movie, which will open in theaters on March 4 and was directed by Michael Tucker and Petra Epperlein, records the everyday lives of 400 soldiers living in the bombed-out palace of Saddam Hussein's son Uday after the fall of Baghdad. 
 Rap might seem at odds with the conformity of military life, but Mr. Tucker, who served in the reserve in the 1980's, sees it as an extension of the cadence, or the calling-out songs to which troops run. And from the lyrics they write, it's clear that some of these soldiers identify their role -- urban guerilla warriors fighting an unseen enemy -- with that of the heroes of the genre. Even the USO has responded: They sent Nappy Roots, Bubba Sparks, 50 Cent and G-Unit to perform for soldiers in Iraq, and Ludacris appeared at a giant welcome home for soldiers at Fort Hood, Tex. 
 ''Rap has become another part of barracks culture,'' Mr. Tucker said in a phone interview. ''As far as soldiers go, rap is almost the perfect medium: they are able to say so much, to let off steam and also to have so many hidden meanings in what they say.''
 One day in April 2004 Sgt. Nick Moncrief, who said he had felt close to death many times during his 14 months in Iraq, felt at least four bullets whiz past his face while he was guarding the perimeter of an area in Baghdad. ''Those bullets were close to me the way you're close when you're getting ready to kiss a girl.'' 
 Not long after that, he scribbled down a rap: ''I noticed that my face is aging so quickly/Cuz I've seen more than your average man in his fifties/I'm 24 now/Got two kids and a wife/Having visions of them picturing me up out of they life.'' 
 Now back at his post in Germany, Sergeant Moncrief, who also appears in Mr. Tucker's film, has turned 25. ''My message in my rap is that I have a lot of anger about the war,'' he said. ''Why are we there? Why me? That's basically what I want to say when I write: Why?''
 Some soldiers described jotting down lyrics on scraps of paper at night, between power failures. They rapped to whatever beat they could find -- a homemade CD on a boom box or just some drumming on the metal armor of a Humvee. The soldiers joked that they could have even rapped to the beat of gunfire. 
 In fact, they very nearly did in ''mortar alley,'' a Baghdad spot where service members held freestyle contests outside their sleeping quarters. Half a dozen soldiers or more would gather around; when the mortar rounds started coming -- as they so often did between 7 p.m. and midnight -- the music swiftly ended and everyone raced inside. As Specialist Terry Taylor, 27, recalls, those raps tended to come particularly fast. ''You wouldn't want to wait too long,'' he said. ''We got caught outside with mortars coming more than a few times.''
 Other nights, Specialist Taylor said, he and his friends would sneak a radio along when they had to escort some high-ranking officer, and rap while they waited through his appointment. 
 Usually, violence was the inspiration. After a June 2003 shootout that left one man dead, Specialist Taylor wrote: ''I can't believe Iraqis are after me/It's got to be a tragedy/The way these people bust and blast at me/Dear God, is this the way it has to be?'' 
 It was one of his ''aggression'' raps. ''For me, this was a way to stand up and say, 'hey, I'm not going to take it,''' he said. ''If I didn't feel that, if I didn't get that out there and say that out loud, I just don't think you'd make it. A lot of guys didn't make it. You can't show kindness or weakness out there. This was a way to make it out safe.'' 
 His song went on: ''You have no success with your bombs now it's mortar attacks/Oh! So you think that we not ready for that/We got snipers on the roof flipping cats like acrobats/And I am the living proof, I'm on guard and I'm going to be there all night/And to me your guerilla tactics is nothing to me but a little monkey fight.''
 While working on ''Soundtrack to War,'' a film about the role of music in the Iraqi conflict that was broadcast on VH1 last summer, the director George Gittoes said he found that rap had not fully crossed over for all white soldiers, who tended instead to listen to country music. If true, it's a distinction affecting more than just what CD's get played in the barracks. For while country music has by and large been wildly supportive of soldiers and the war, hip-hop's relationship to the conflict and to military life in general, has been a lot more ambiguous and shifting.
 Rap was already infusing the culture of soldiers in the first Gulf war, in 1991, when many artists were critical of the administration. Paris wrote ''Bush Killa,'' about the current president's father, and Ice Cube came out with ''A Bird in the Hand,'' a biting look at government policy. (He also appeared in David O. Russell's 1999 film, 'Three Kings,'' a dark comedy about soldiers in the aftermath of that war.) Still, the symbol of the fearless street soldier was gaining in popularity. 
 In the months after the terrorist attacks of 2001, Mr. Chang said, some rappers wrote about defending the country. But as the war in Iraq has gone on, more pointedly antiwar songs have emerged. In Jay-Z's 2003 ''Beware of the Boys,'' he wrote: ''We rebellious, we back home/Screaming, 'Leave Iraq alone!/But all my soldiers in the field, I will wish you safe return/But only love kills war, when will they learn?''
 According to Bakari Kitwana, the author of ''The Hip Hop Generation: Young Blacks and the Crisis in African American Culture,'' ''the contradiction that people in the hip-hop culture see is that the war is creating job options and life possibilities not just for Iraqi people but for large American corporations, and meanwhile, the soldiers have no such options.'' 
 As for the soldiers, some say the war has helped break down whatever barriers of race or taste there may have been before among the troops on questions of music. Rap, country, metal -- it's all Iraq.
 ''I guess I don't even see the difference between rap and country anymore, except the beat,'' said Specialist Richmond Shaw, 21, who grew up in Pontiac, Mich., and wrote jarring raps in Iraq. ''We're talking about the same things. We're all out here in the middle of this oven. There's nothing going on. It's desolate. We're basically stuck. Dirty, dusty, windy, blowing, miserable.''
 ''I might be part of the Tupac generation,'' he went on, ''but we're all trying to avoid getting shot, and we're all wondering whether people will remember us and we're trying to make difference before we die. Isn't that what country music is about, too?''
 Three days after Specialist Shaw's friend was shot in Iraq, he wrote a song. He said he knew he was ''living on borrowed time'' and needed people back home to know that life there was real, not something on the news, not something in a press conference, not an idea. He sat in his room to write it, looking out, he said, at a river, listening to the constant flapping of choppers going by, and once in a while, gunfire somewhere:
 'Trials and tribulations daily we do/And not always life's pains wash away in our pool/When we take a dip, we try to stick to the script/But when those guns start blazing and our friends get hit/That's when our hearts start racing and our stomach gets whoozy/Cuz for y'all this is just a show, but we live in this movie.'' 
 Rap music, it seems, has been for many soldiers a bridge between their normal lives and the strange, surreal world of their Iraqi service. Their lives, they said, were changed dramatically by war, but their music helped them understand it. Rap, with its stories of crumbling neighborhoods, street violence , wild economic disparities and life-or-death swagger, helped them make sense of what they saw there. 
 ''When you start looking at the fighting between the Sunnis and the Shiites,'' said Specialist Drummond, 22, who finished four years of service in November after spending more than a year in Iraq, ''it's at least as complicated as the fighting between the Bloods and the Crips back home. People can't tell who is who and who is mad at who. Truth is, there are some very scary similarities between what you see in the neighborhoods and what you see in Iraq. I think that's why rap fits both so well.''
 Unless pressed, Sergeant Moncrief does not talk much about what he saw in the war. He is trying to live in the now, he says. But his raps are still coming. 
 ''I don't know any other way to get my feelings out,'' Sergeant Moncrief said. ''I was scared over there, and frankly, I think if you weren't scared, there was something wrong with you. I rap because I feel it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At right, a fellow soldier with rifle and, from left, three G.I. rappers: Specialists Javorn Drummond and Richmond Shaw and Sgt. Nick Moncrief in Baghdad last year. Below, Specialist Terry Taylor (at the far left), and below right, Specialist Shaw performing, with samples of their work. (pg. 34)
 Sgt. Nick Moncrief, left, with a sample of his rap lyrics, and Specialist Terry Taylor. (Photo by Dieter Mayr for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); POP & ROCK (86%); ARMIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (72%); COUNTRY MUSIC (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: 50 CENT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



431 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Is Softening On Divided Continent

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: NAPLES, Italy 

 BODY:
In an unadorned classroom at the NATO military base here, 18 European and 3 American officers came together recently for an intense orientation on how to train the Iraqi Army's new officer corps.
 Many in the room came from ''new'' European countries -- Poland, Romania, Lithuania, Slovakia, Estonia -- and were clearly grateful to take part. ''You can't be a NATO member and just sit back and do nothing,'' said Maj. Rudolf Jeeser of Estonia, who, like his fellow officers, volunteered for duty in Iraq. ''For me, it's important to pay back NATO for what it has done for my country.''
 Notably absent were officers from America's major and longstanding European allies -- France, Germany, Spain, Belgium, Greece -- countries that still contend that the American-led war in Iraq is wrong and refuse to send a single soldier there. 
 This is the Europe that President Bush will find when he lands in Brussels on Sunday, Feb. 20: a continent still deeply divided over how much to bend to the will of Washington on issues of war and peace, and how warmly to support the Bush crusade to spread its definition of freedom around the world.
 The success of elections in Iraq and recent visits by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have helped soften European opinion. But in interviews across the Continent, officials warn that the antagonism generated in Mr. Bush's first term will not be healed in a day. 
 A partnership will be created when compromise can be reached issue by issue, particularly in areas important to Europeans. 
 ''The right tone between the United States and Europe has been restored, a tone of normalcy that replaces one of distrust,'' said Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief. ''Now we have to hope that the new tone is going to lead to a change in substance, to lead to concrete agreement. Obviously we are not going to solve all the problems with one meeting. But we are hopeful that the new tone is going to lead to a change in substance, to lead to concrete agreement.''
 The European public is hungry to believe the Americans when they say that a new era of friendship with Europe has begun, but also deeply suspicious that the soaring language will never translate into action. 
 A poll published this month by the German Marshall Fund, for example, indicates that only 11 percent of French and Germans approve of Mr. Bush's handling of foreign affairs. Europe remains frustrated that the United States has refused to hear its voice on issues as wide-ranging as the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, the standing of the world criminal court, engagement with Iran and structural change in the United Nations Security Council.
 Other, more philosophical, differences persist as well. The Europeans tend to regard poverty and the dismal failure to bring peace to the Middle East as the root cause of terrorism; the United States tends to blame the absence of democracy. In discussing national security, the Europeans emphasize the word ''stability,'' the Americans the word ''liberty,'' even if it borders on what the Europeans might consider adventurism. Washington's strident statements about liberating Iran, for example, have spread concern across the Continent that America may try to use military force there.
 The European Union is poised to lift its 15-year arms embargo on China this summer; the Bush administration opposes such a move. Washington wants the union to declare Hezbollah, the Syrian-and Iranian-backed Lebanese militant group, a terrorist organization; many European governments, including that of France, note that it is also a recognized political party in Lebanon.
 While some officials and analysts of the trans-Atlantic alliance were dazzled by the charm-infused, fence-mending performances by Ms. Rice and Mr. Rumsfeld on their trips to Europe, others remain unimpressed.
 Mr. Rumsfeld's speech in Munich was aimed at bridging gaps. But he ended by saying that the United States would continue to intervene militarily without NATO when necessary. That language did not convince even the Americans present that a new day in relations had dawned.
 ''The tone was different,'' former Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen said at the conference. ''The tune was the same.''
 When one participant suggested that Ms. Rice took a more consultative approach to Europe about the use of force than Mr. Rumsfeld, Mr. Rumsfeld snapped back: ''Condi Rice doesn't have a policy. The president of the United States and the United States have policies.''
 To Europeans, the latest example of Washington's failure to recognize their diplomatic preferences is its stance on Iran. The European Union will press Mr. Bush to support the European initiative with Iran that envisions rewards if Iran gives up important nuclear activities, an approach the United States rejects.
 Mr. Bush is determined to win more European support for the reconstruction of Iraq, and NATO is expected to announce that all 26 members are contributing at least something. 
 In its most recent sign of an expanding role, the European Union will announce on the first full day of Mr. Bush's visit plans to open an office in Baghdad for a program to train 770 Iraqi judges, prosecutors and criminal investigators outside Iraq, European Union officials said.
 But while countries like Germany and France are willing to do training outside Iraq, the mission is short of soldiers in the country. And even more important is getting enough money to pay for the training. 
 ''We're in bad shape money-wise,'' said Adm. Michael G. Mullen, NATO's southern European commander who runs NATO operations in Iraq, the Balkans and the Mediterranean. ''We've got to figure out a way to get the resources to do the training for the Iraqi military.''
 Since then, a senior NATO official said, the United States has been pressing its members for donations, and hopes to announce at the summit meeting that the fund-raising campaign has worked.
 For the Europeans, the most important gesture of Mr. Bush's trip is that he will be the first president to hold a summit meeting with the European Commission, the executive body of the 25-country European Union. The visit reflects an acknowledgment that ''Europe'' is real, and increasingly a power center to be reckoned with. 
 After all, the European Union -- to which, unlike NATO, the United States does not belong -- is the world's largest and most powerful economic bloc, and its population of 458 million far exceeds that of the United States. Europe is proud that an enlarged union with a stronger single currency, the euro, is forging a new Continentwide identity, and it has a conviction that it is becoming a power center in its own right.
 Mr. Solana speaks often about the European Union's capacity to transform societies by promising aid and even membership. He predicts that one day the European Union will be as powerful a force in foreign policy as it is in trade.
 But the Europeans have not committed the resources necessary for the military muscle that would back up a distinctive foreign policy. Absent, too, is a strong and consistent vision of how to wield Europe's accruing power in the world.
 As if to test Mr. Bush before his arrival, and without consulting his fellow Europeans, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany this month called the 56-year-old NATO alliance ''no longer the primary venue where trans-Atlantic partners discuss and coordinate strategies.'' 
 But it is President Jacques Chirac of France who most irritates Mr. Bush and his administration, and most often goes his own way.
 Although France has played a leading role in NATO operations in many areas, particularly Afghanistan and the Balkans, France has staunchly opposed sending military personnel to Iraq. Its proposal to train 1,500 Iraqi police officers envisions a program outside Iraq and outside the NATO framework.
 When several American senators went to Elysee Palace early this month, Mr. Chirac said that the arms embargo was an insult to China, two participants said. He turned the tables and blamed the United States for overarming Taiwan.
 ''You have to understand in these cultures that pride makes a difference,'' one participant paraphrased Mr. Chirac as saying. ''This is true whether it is China or Iran or an Arab country.''
 Perhaps the same could be said for Europe. 


CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Feb. 20 about European antagonism toward President Bush over the Iraq war on the eve of his recent visit to Europe referred imprecisely to Spain's position. While the government that took power in Spain last April opposes the war and refuses to send troops, its predecessor supported the war and contributed 1,300 troops, which have since been withdrawn.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Capt. Jeff Gradeck trained officers Feb. 11 at NATO Allied Forces Southern Europe headquarters in Naples. (Photo by Claudio Palmisano for The New York Times)
 French soldiers from the International Security force with Afghan children late last year on patrols in Kabul. (Photo by Ahmad Masood/Reuters)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ELECTIONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (59%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Elections; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%) Elaine Sciolino; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); ESTONIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); POLAND (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (91%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GREECE (73%) Europe; European Union; Iraq; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



432 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Editorial Desk; Winning Back Europe's Heart; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Be True

BYLINE: By Stefan Hrib. 
Stefan Hrib is the editor in chief of the Slovak weekly Tyzden.

DATELINE: Bratislava, Slovakia 

 BODY:
What do Europeans want from the United States? As President Bush prepares for his first trip to Europe since his reelection -- a five-day swing through Belgium, Germany and Slovakia -- the Op-Ed page asked a variety of Europeans to name the single most important thing Mr. Bush could do to reinvigorate trans-Atlantic relations.
 I grew up under communism in the former Czechoslovakia. We were taught that Ronald Reagan was a servant of the military-industrial complex, a man who wanted war and scorned ordinary people. Paradoxically, most Europeans shared this view, not just those of us who lived behind the Iron Curtain. Had leaders in Moscow, Prague, Paris and Madrid been asked at the time what Mr. Reagan could do to reinvigorate relations between the United States and Europe, they probably would all have had the same answer: he should abandon his dream of American hegemony and start to consider Europe, including the Soviet Union, as an equal partner.
 But Mr. Reagan didn't seek their advice, and communism eventually collapsed. Mr. Reagan reinvigorated relations between the United States and Europe by staying true to his convictions.
 Now I live in democratic Slovakia, which is a member of NATO and the European Union. Since the Velvet Revolution in 1989, almost everything in our lives has changed. Our part of Europe is no longer under occupation; my friends can travel freely; our children can study at Harvard, Oxford and the Sorbonne; the secret police are not almighty; and a market economy has replaced socialism.
 But one thing didn't change: the majority of people in Europe still consider the American president a servant of the military-industrial complex who wants war and scorns ordinary people. So to the question of what George Bush can do to reinvigorate relations between the United States and Europe, I offer the same answer that worked for Ronald Reagan 20 years ago: stay true to your convictions and act accordingly. The salons of postmodern Europe will eventually appreciate your wisdom.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Craig Frazier) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (57%); MADRID, SPAIN (55%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SLOVAKIA (94%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (75%); CZECH REPUBLIC (57%); SPAIN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



433 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Focus on Indiana's Governor, a Tax-Cutter Who Has Become a Tax-Raiser

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The Blade, as President Bush dubbed Mitch Daniels when he was White House budget director, has discovered at least one thing since becoming governor of Indiana last month: political alliances are not forever. 
 Celebrated for years by fiscal conservatives for his battles with Congress over cutting taxes and slashing federal spending, Mr. Daniels, in office for just over a month, is now being attacked by his former champions for proposing a temporary, 1 percent tax increase for Indiana residents making more than $100,000 a year.
 ''That has gotten a disproportionate amount of attention, for reasons that I completely understand, due to the man-bites-dog nature of it,'' said Mr. Daniels, 55, as he sat behind his desk in the cavernous governor's office here. ''But I honestly don't feel that I snuck up on anybody.'' 
 It has been an eventful debut for Mr. Daniels, a long-time Indianapolis resident who was an executive at locally based Eli Lilly before becoming the president's budget director from January 2001 to June 2003, when he left to run for governor.
 Almost his first act after assuming office was to declare that his administration would no longer engage in collective bargaining with the union that represents state workers. Then, he asked for the resignations of the members of the state's top policy-making boards and commissions, including those appointed by his Democratic predecessors. Democrats called it an unseemly power grab, which the governor denies.
 And instead of immediately shrinking state government, he expanded it, creating a Department of Child Services and consolidating other state functions under a new secretary of commerce and an Office of Management and Budget.
 But it was his proposal for a temporary tax increase that would raise to 4.4 percent from 3.4 percent the amount of state income tax paid by the wealthiest 5 percent that drew the ire of conservatives, although he also called for holding back state subsidies to local governments and school districts and holding Medicaid growth to 5 percent in the coming year. Medicaid grew 11 percent in Indiana last year. 
 Mr. Daniels argues that the tax increase will have much less impact on the lives of Indiana residents than the spending cuts he also proposed to address what he calls a budget crisis that has built up over 16 years of Democratic governorships.
 ''One of the things I resolved is that we would balance the budget in the first year, without any accounting tricks,'' he said. ''And we simply could not find a way to get there through spending cuts alone. In the second year, we will be able to get there, which is why this tax is temporary.''
 He decided to tax the wealthy, he said, because he recognized that the spending cuts in aid to public schools and to those on Medicaid, for instance, would land most heavily on the poor and the middle-class, so it seemed fair to ask those who earn more to bear some of the burden.
 ''I know that the Grovers of the world think I've gone crazy,'' Mr. Daniels said, referring to Grover Norquist, whose Americans for Tax Reform, along with groups like the Club for Growth, argue for further and deeper tax and spending cuts and have taken him on publicly.
 Conservative tax-cutters gasped in astonishment at the governor's plan, and were not hesitant to lash out. 
 Brad Klopfenstein, executive director of the Libertarian Party of Indiana, said, ''It's not quite what we expected from this guy.'' The libertarian candidate finished a distant third when Mr. Daniels unseated the Democratic incumbent, Joe Kernan, in November. ''Republicans fell all over themselves thinking, at last we've got one of our own in the governor's office. And this is what they got,'' Mr. Klopfenstein said.
 Mr. Daniels ran for office barnstorming the state in a recreational vehicle dubbed RV-1, telling voters that the state budget was in crisis and that he intended to take strong action. He says he did not specifically mention a temporary 1 percent tax increase on the wealthy because the extent of the state's budget woes did not become clear until he took office.
 Mike Edmondson, executive director of the Indiana Democratic Party, begs to differ. ''What we were told is that we were going to see some belt-tightening, some scaling back, some austerity measures,'' Mr. Edmondson said. What they got, he said, was blind-sided.
 Although the governor said he informed the Republican leadership in the Legislature about most of his proposals in advance of the speech, they reacted with almost as much shock as the Democrats. The House speaker, Brian Bosma, an Republican from Indianapolis, quickly reminded reporters that the eventual budget was the Legislature's to shape, not the governor's.
 Already, some in both parties are declaring Mr. Daniels's tax increase unlikely to pass. ''That's not going to get through; that's definitely not going to get through,'' Mr. Edmondson said.
 That has led some to wonder whether Mr. Daniels had floated the tax increase as a ploy, either to attract Democratic votes or as a sure-fire loser that would force the Legislature to come up with its own spending cuts. The governor denies this.
 Larry DeBoer, a professor of economics at Purdue University who specializes in state government, said there was no question the governor had inherited a budget mess.
 ''And since this was the first change in party in the governor's office in 16 years, you would expect some changes,'' he said. ''But a Republican governor with a tax-cutting reputation coming in and raising taxes? That was not expected.''
 Sitting in his office this week as a murmuring crowd of exchange students from France gathered outside, Mr. Daniels said he intended to push ahead with his proposal.
 ''My feeling is that every garden needs weeding every 16 years or so, and it's time for Indiana to weed the garden,'' the governor said. A wooden sword rested on the table behind him, inscribed ''The Blade,'' as did a few other swords scattered around the office, gifts from conservative admirers in his White House days.
 ''What people don't understand is that my applicable and formative experience came not when I was in the White House, but before that, when I was in business,'' he said.
 The doors opened and in flooded a stream of seventh graders from Marseilles. He stood, smiling, to face them. Any questions? One student raised her hand tentatively. How long does a governor serve in office?
 Mr. Daniels took a long pause.
 ''Four years,'' he said. ''Although the last month has kind of seemed like four years.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a temporary Indiana tax increase proposed by Gov. Mitch Daniels for residents earning more than $100,000 a year misstated its size. It would be an increase of one percentage point -- to 4.4 percent of income from 3.4 percent -- not 1 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mitch Daniels, center, with Mark Lubbers, left, senior political adviser, and Harry Gonso, chief of staff. (Photo by A.J. Mast for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); MEDICAID (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (51%); INCOME TAX (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (55%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); LEL (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MITCH DANIELS (79%) Rick Lyman; Mitchell E Jr (Gov) Daniels; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Indiana

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



434 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: View From Congress Seems Far This Year

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: COMMACK 

 BODY:
AS President Bush begins his second term and the new session of Congress gets under way, just what can Long Islanders expect from Washington?
 ''Candidly, not very much,'' said the dean of Long Island's Congressional delegation, Representative Gary L. Ackerman, a Democrat whose district covers the North Shore. ''I have never been as pessimistic in my 27 years in office,'' he said.
 That downbeat assessment kicked off a debate on Monday among all five Long Island representatives on how the region's issues would fare in the capital this year. 
 Their discussion was moderated by Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, an influential business-oriented civic group, at its headquarters here. ''We send a lot of money to Washington,'' Mr. Crosson said of Island taxpayers. ''We don't get it all back.''
 But the Island's sole Republican representative, Peter T. King of Seaford, said he was making progress in getting the Island more money.
 Mr. King said changes were being made to give the New York area more antiterrorism funds; he was recently named chairman of a subcommittee dealing with how the money is distributed. Further, he said that $390 million of aid was planned for the Long Island Rail Road's East Side access project to connect to Grand Central Terminal, accounting for one-fourth of the nation's capital budget for mass transportation. 
 And the Island will also be getting a significant share of federal aid to clean up polluted ''brownfield'' sites for redevelopment, Mr. King said. 
 Though the five representatives differed on some points, all agreed that this would be a tough year for the entire nation as President Bush pushes for tax cuts and seeks reductions in spending to stem the deficit and offset the cost of the Iraq war.
 ''We're at war and it's costing us a lot of money, and sacrifices have to be made,'' said Representative Carolyn McCarthy, whose district covers central Nassau County. Nevertheless, she vowed to push for her priorities, health care and education. ''We're going to have to fight to put that money back in place,'' she said. But she added, ''For a lot of things I'll be fighting for, the money isn't enough.'' 
 Compounding that problem, Long Island finds itself at a geographical and political disadvantage. The Island is part of the liberal Northeast, while the more conservative South and West hold sway in Washington. 
 ''Unfortunately the power is in the South now, and they tend to forget us in the Northeast,'' Ms. McCarthy said. Mr. Ackerman said: ''It's red states, blue states. It's geography. The Democrats are going to be playing defense.''
 Mr. Ackerman and Ms. McCarthy accused the Republicans of abandoning bipartisan compromise. Mr. Ackerman predicted that his party would respond in kind. ''You'll see less cooperation from the Democratic side,'' he said. 
 But on a local level, Ms. McCarthy, a former Republican who ran as a Democrat, struck a conciliatory note, saying that the Island's delegation was a team that ignored party labels. ''We all work well together,'' she said.
 Mr. King chuckled about the rising fortunes of Democrats on the Island. ''In the good old days there would be four of us'' Republicans and only one Democrat, he said. ''Now I'm the lone wolf here.''
 All five agreed that a major issue threatening an increasing number of residents was the alternative minimum tax.
 ''It punishes high-income areas like us,'' said Representative Steve Israel of Huntington. Originally aimed at rich people who paid little or no tax because of deductions and exclusions, the tax has not been adjusted for inflation. So in a high-cost, high-wage area like Long Island, more residents, including police officers and school teachers, face rising tax bills.
 Unless a change is made, Mr. Israel said, for Long Islanders the alternative minimum tax will negate the savings of the president's other tax cuts.
 Mr. King predicted a bipartisan alliance with other high-wage areas, notably California. ''It's a regional issue,'' he said. ''There's going to be a lot of horse-trading and bargaining on that.''
 An even bigger threat looms in the talk about eliminating the deductibility of state income and local property taxes for those who itemize deductions on their federal income tax returns.
 With Long Island residents paying among the nation's highest state and local taxes, such a change could be drastic.
 Representative Timothy H. Bishop, now starting his second term, cited several issues for his East End district, including preserving aid to higher education, a major industry on the Island, and fending off attempts to close the military base at Grabeski Airport. ''We're fighting to save that base,'' he said.
 Another perennial issue is the Army Corps of Engineers' study, nearly completed, of beach erosion from Fire Island to Montauk. Despite attempts to cut the program, ''we were able fight that off last year and hope to do so again,'' Mr. Bishop said. But because of the new budget crunch, he said, ''This year the bar is higher.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUDGETS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BROWNFIELD SITES (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (64%); IRAQ WAR (62%); COUNTERTERRORISM (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: PETER T KING (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); CAROLYN MCCARTHY (58%); GARY L ACKERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



435 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Be a Junkie. Be A Thief. But Must You Date Kate Moss?

BYLINE: By DOMINIC PATTEN

 BODY:
EVEN by the standards of the great rock-'n'-roll train wrecks, these have been rough times for Pete Doherty. Sure, the 25-year-old frontman of the band Babyshambles has had tremendous musical success. And sure, he has enjoyed the company -- in parties and gossip columns -- of the glamorous Kate Moss. But that was before he was arrested on Feb. 2 on charges of robbery and blackmail. After that he spent five very unglamorous days in the Pentonville Prison in London, suffering from a painful heroin withdrawal and wondering whether anyone could raise $:150,000 (about $280,230) for his bail.
 No one could claim to be entirely surprised by his fall. 
 After gaining some attention in his teens as a poet, Mr. Doherty formed the Libertines with Carl Barat. With their street-urchin image and dark thrashy tunes of urban squalor, the band was described as ''Britpop meets Baudelaire,'' and the two songwriters were compared to Morrissey and Johnny Marr of the Smiths. Their first album, ''Up the Bracket,'' debuted in the British Top20 in late 2002, and soon went platinum. 
 But in addition to his musical talent, Mr. Doherty demonstrated an effortless knack for getting himself in trouble. In June 2003 he entered the first of many stints in rehab, only to walk away days later. In September 2003 he spent more than a month in Wandsworth Prison for burglarizing Mr. Barat's apartment. Last year he received a four-month suspended sentence for carrying an illegal knife. The Libertine's self-titled second album -- recorded with security guards in the studio to keep Mr. Doherty and Mr. Barat from coming to blows -- went straight to No.1 in Britain and won critical acclaim in the United States in September. But by then Mr. Doherty had been kicked out of the band.
 Babyshambles, the band he started next, looked ready to repeat his former success. But it didn't quite work out that way. During Babyshambles's British tour late last year, Mr. Doherty's drug use led to canceled shows, backstage overdoses, fights with hecklers and fan riots. 
 ''It's become a self-perpetuating horror story, hasn't it?'' said James Mullord, Mr. Doherty's remarkably candid -- and by now unmistakably weary -- manager. ''The drugs, the missed shows, the law, all of it. That's not what it's supposed to be about. But it reached the point, even Pete says he sees it now, the point where it's just got completely out of hand.'' 
 In the last year hardly a week has gone by without another story of Mr. Doherty's excesses, and more recently his relationship with Ms. Moss, splashed across tabloids like The Daily Mirror or The Sun. Even the BBC current affairs show ''Newsnight'' has taken note of him. ''The press here won't leave you alone,'' Mr. Mullord said, ''but Pete does like the attention, it's true. He's his own worst enemy when it comes to getting the wrong type of attention.'' 
 This latest round of bad publicity started on Feb. 2, when the police were called to the Rookery Hotel in London. The filmmaker Max Carlish, who had sold photographs of Mr. Doherty smoking heroin to The Daily Mirror, claimed that the singer had demanded compensation. Mr. Carlish was taken to a hospital and treated for a black eye and other minor facial injuries; Mr. Doherty was charged with robbery and blackmail. Given his previous convictions, he faces a possible sentence of up to four years in prison.
 On Feb. 8, with money cobbled together from record companies and publishing contracts, Mr. Mullord paid Mr. Doherty's bail, and placed him in a court-ordered rehabilitation clinic. Amid all this, Mr. Doherty found time for an interview with The Sun in which he explained that he thought he ''was going to die'' in prison, and how his love of Ms. Moss convinced him he had ''to sort my life out.'' 
 His next court appearance, to determine whether the case goes to a jury trial, is scheduled for tomorrow. 
 Just off the phone with Mr. Doherty at the treatment center a few days ago, Mr. Mullord offered some good news: the physical addiction had been broken. ''It's the psychological issues,'' he continued, ''the stuff that makes him want to take the drugs, that'll have to be sorted out. I just want this thing over so we can get in the studio and record an album. The bail was all our money, everything.''
 What could it really mean to manage an unmanageable force like Pete Doherty? While celebrity gossip consumers puzzle over the latest slide in Mr. Doherty's fortunes, Mr. Mullord sounds as if he is still trying to figure out how it fell to him to answer the question. ''Pete does breed chaos,'' he said. ''It's just that simple. He's erratic, so as his manager, as his friend, I'm always adapting, But his family, his mum and his dad, are very private. They don't know a lot about drugs and that kind of life, so for them a lot of it right now is picking up the pieces.''
 Mr. Mullord knows whereof he speaks. He is still hopeful that Babyshambles, for whom he landed a contract with Rough Trade records and whose single, ''Killamangiro,'' was a recent British Top10 hit, will make it back to the studio.
 Many listeners are hoping for the same thing. ''I know fans of the Libertines,'' said Anthony Thornton, the reviews editor of the New Musical Express, ''who saw Babyshambles live and started crying. And when I asked them why, they said, 'Because they are so good,' and that meant the Libertines were really finished.'' (Which, as they recently announced, they indeed are.) And of course, all the controversy has only succeeded in endearing him to some of his most ardent admirers. 
 This year, Mr. Mullord said, the plan had been for Mr. Doherty to clean up his act. The band was going to rehearse some new songs and, in early February, go into Riverside Studios near Bath. Even the acrimonious departure of the drummer Gemma Clarke in mid-January couldn't derail the plan. ''We lost,'' he said, ''or got rid of Gemma, depending on who you ask, but we replaced her with a much better musician. The next part of the plan was we'd be mixing the next single, ''Forever,'' right now, and then getting that out, finish up the album, get out on tour and, you know, do what we love doing, play some shows and see some interesting places.''
 But because Mr. Doherty was barely coherent for most of last year's Babyshambles tour, Mr. Mullord's refusal to give up hope marks him as one of pop music's great believers. He said he was confident, for example, that the charges relating to the Rookery Hotel were nonsense. As for the recent interview with The Sun, Mr. Mullord acknowledged that he approved it, but insisted that it was a matter of the band's basic economic necessity. 
 ''But that's the last time we're getting involved in anything like that,'' he added. ''You wouldn't believe the sort of money I've been offered for pictures of Pete and Kate -- it's hundreds of thousands. And I've told Pete no, because from now on, once he's out of rehab and the case is hopefully thrown out of court, I've told him I don't want him to do any press for anything but his music.'' 
 Nonetheless, The Sun recently printed photos of the on-again-off-again lovers that were said to have come from the camera on Mr. Doherty's cellphone. 
 Just days from the appearance at Snaresbrook Crown Court that might determine Mr. Doherty's fate, Mr. Mullord sounded particularly wistful. ''I love Pete,'' he said. As he spoke, another gossip report came on television in the background. ''I just wish he would be a bit more compliant.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chaos before the storm: the singer and guitarist Pete Doherty performing with his band Babyshambles in London in January, top right, and leaving court in August after being charged with carrying an illegal knife. Another court appearance tomorrow may determine whether he goes back to prison or returns to the recording studio. (Photographs by Yui Mok/EPA, top, and Bruno Vincent/Getty Images, above)(pg. 28)
 Pete Doherty in December. (Photo by Jo Hale/Getty Images)(pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BURGLARY (76%); ROBBERY (76%); SENTENCING (75%); SONG WRITING (72%); ARRESTS (71%); HEROIN (70%); WRITERS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KATE MOSS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



436 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: When Greenspan Is Stumped, Investors Should Play It Safe

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WHEN Alan Greenspan says he cannot explain why longer-term interest rates are so low, what's an investor to do? Take cover.
 Some money managers are doing just that because they have had the same problem as Mr. Greenspan, the Fed chairman: they cannot understand the decline of longer-term rates despite six increases in short-term rates by Fed policy makers since June.
 ''This development contrasts with most experience,'' Mr. Greenspan said last week in testimony to Congress. ''Other things being equal, increasing short-term interest rates are normally accompanied by a rise in longer-term yields.'' 
 Instead, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note has fallen to 4.26 percent from 4.69 percent at the end of June 2004, despite a climb of 1.5 percentage points in the central bank's short-term rate benchmark, to 2.5 percent. While Mr. Greenspan cited many possible reasons for this unusual happening, he ultimately concluded that ''it remains a conundrum.''
 That's enough to make Paul A. McCulley cautious. ''When the Fed chairman says he's scratching his dome, you should be scratching yours,'' said Mr. McCulley, a portfolio manager and economist at Pimco, the asset management and mutual fund company in Newport Beach, Calif. ''You should always be wary when the central bank says an asset price is aberrant.''
 Thomas H. Atteberry, a manager of the New Income fund at First Pacific Advisors in Los Angeles, agrees. ''He's the guy who is supposed to have all the information,'' Mr. Atteberry said of the Fed chairman. ''And he is telling me he doesn't know why. Why commit capital to a long-term investment when you don't understand why it's valued that way?'' 
 Mr. Greenspan also acknowledged that he was puzzled by other economic behavior. Although investors seem willing to take on more risk, businesspeople appear reluctant to do so. Capital investment has lagged behind the big rise in corporate profits. And worker productivity, a factor in restraining inflation, has proved to be ''notoriously difficult to predict,'' he said.
 Both Mr. McCulley and Mr. Atteberry still think that longer-term rates will rise. That is why Mr. McCulley said Pimco had reduced its exposure to the Treasury market, and why Mr. Atteberry said he was staying away from it.
 Mr. McCulley said Pimco had not participated in a popular Treasury trade in which shorter-term securities are sold and longer-term ones are bought. This is called a flattening trade -- a bet that the yield on longer-term securities will fall, or at least rise more slowly, than the yield on shorter-term securities. It has proved profitable with the unexpected decline in longer-term yields.
 Mr. Atteberry has 40 percent of his money as far from Treasuries as possible without stuffing it into a mattress. It is in money market funds. Most of the rest is in mortgage and agency securities, which he said would fare better than Treasury securities in a rising rate environment.
 Mr. McCulley argues that longer-term rates will rise partly because one factor now holding them down may soon vanish. Unlike other explanations, including the buying of Treasuries by foreign central banks and a general preference among investors worldwide for putting their excess savings into American bonds, this one is obscure. But Wall Street has not overlooked it.
 It involves plans announced on Jan. 10 by the Labor Department to shore up the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency that insures pension funds. On Wall Street, Mr. McCulley said, the announcement was viewed as a step toward advocating that pension funds invest more in long-term notes and bonds.
 MR. McCULLEY says he believes that hedge funds, eager to be ahead of the game, have increased their purchases of longer-term securities since the announcement. One sign of this could be the sharp decline in the spread, or difference in the yields, of the Treasury's so-called 30-year bond, which matures in 2031, and the current 10-year note. That spread was 0.38 percent on Friday, smaller than the 0.57 percent just before the announcement. The change means that 30-year bonds have been in much greater demand than 10-year notes.
 But Mr. McCulley expects this run to exhaust itself as soon as speculators see that the change for pension funds will come very slowly; as a result, he said, 30-year bond yields should rise.
 Mr. Greenspan may have been giving a similar warning to investors, saying that the recent performance of longer-term interest rates ''may be a short-term aberration.'' In other words, the normal upward tilt of longer-term rates could return.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Rate Conundrum''Although the Federal Reserve has been raising short-term interest rates since mid-2004, 10-year Treasury yields have fallen since then.Graph tracks 10-year Treasury yield and Federal funds target rate since January 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



437 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks to Begin a Thaw In a Europe Still Cool to Him

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush leaves for Brussels on Sunday for a four-day campaign to sell himself to Europe as a new man with open arms, but behind his embrace of the triumvirate that opposed him on Iraq -- President Jacques Chirac of France, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia -- lie serious tensions unlikely to be resolved on the trip.
 Most significant are the White House rebuff of European requests that the United States take part in talks to persuade Iran to abandon what is thought to be a nuclear weapons program, and American opposition to Europe's plan to lift an embargo on arms sales to China.
 Mr. Bush is also expected to raise with Mr. Putin his concerns about Russia's retreat from democracy and its plan to sell weapons to Syria. 
 European and American officials say that Mr. Bush's postelection visit to Belgium, Germany and Slovakia will not produce the usual communiques, although they expect some formal agreement, much of it already in effect, that all 26 countries in NATO will commit to the training of Iraqi security forces. 
 But over all, the goal is simply to change the ugly atmosphere after the trans-Atlantic quarrel over the American-led invasion of Iraq. 
 ''You've got to start somewhere,'' said Tom C. Korologos, the American ambassador to Belgium. ''It's got to be the beginning of a thaw. It's like a family that got a divorce. You have to kiss before you go to sleep.''
 Toward that end, much of Mr. Bush's trip will be marked by the kind of stagecraft that the White House is known for and does not leave to chance, like a dinner that Mr. Bush is giving for his old nemesis, Mr. Chirac, at the home of Ambassador Korologos in Brussels.
 There is also a round-table discussion scheduled with pre-selected Germans and Americans in Mainz, a format adopted after administration officials decided that a ''town hall'' meeting with Mr. Bush and German citizens was too politically risky.
 The proposed town-hall meeting raised the inevitable issue, said Wolfgang Ischinger, the German ambassador to Washington, of ''Do you know what kinds of folks you are going to have at that meeting and what kinds of questions they might ask?'' Mr. Ischinger said the Germans told the Americans that the guests could not be screened, as White House officials do at similar events in the United States, and so ''don't be mad at us if some nasty question comes up.''
 White House officials are hopeful that the theater of the trip -- Mr. Bush is to give a major speech in the grand setting of the 19th-century Concert Noble, now a for-rent Brussels concert hall -- will overshadow the substantive differences and create a new tone. ''Style can sometimes have a substance all its own,'' said Ivo H. Daalder, a foreign policy specialist at the Brookings Institution. 
 Mr. Bush began changing that tone in the first days after his re-election, when Condoleezza Rice, then his national security adviser and now his secretary of state, presented him with a lengthy memorandum telling him that improved relations with Europe had to be his foreign-policy priority in the second term.
 Since then, Mr. Bush has made overtures to Europe in his Inaugural Address, his State of the Union address and this past Thursday in a news conference, when he meandered off in a more personal way than he had in the past.
 ''September the 11th was an interesting phenomenon in terms of our relations,'' Mr. Bush said when he was asked what he had to offer to Europe beyond warm words. ''For some in Europe, it was just a passing terrible moment. And for us, it was a change of -- it caused us to change our foreign policy.'' Those differences, he said, ''at times, frankly, caused us to talk past each other.''
 ''And I recognize that, and I want to make sure the Europeans understand I know that, and that as we move beyond the differences of the past, that we can work together to achieve big objectives.''
 Mr. Bush will spend the bulk of his trip in Brussels, from Sunday night to Wednesday morning, and he will spend much of Tuesday in meetings at the headquarters of NATO and the European Union.
 European officials acknowledged this past week that they were aware that Mr. Bush abhors such formal sessions and that they saw his visit as underscoring the administration's commitment to European unity. The European Union now has 25 members and an economy that competes with the United States.
 ''Don't underestimate the importance of this as a gesture,'' said John Bruton, the European Union's representative in the United States.
 In Slovakia, Mr. Bush will meet with Mr. Putin and raise what he has promised will be questions about Mr. Putin's recent crackdown on dissent. But Mr. Bush indicated that he would do so in private, and gently.
 In recent months the Russian government has seized a unit of the oil company Yukos and arrested its executives, removed powers from state governors and taken steps to take over independent television.
 ''I have a good relationship with President Putin,'' Mr. Bush said in an interview with Slovak State Television at the White House on Friday. ''And the reason -- and that's important, because that then will give me a chance to say in private -- ask him why he's been making some of the decisions he's been making.''
 Mr. Bush added: ''I want him to be able to have a chance to say he's done it for this reason or done that, so I can explain to him as best I can, in a friendly way, of course, that Western values are, you know, are based upon transparency and rule of law, the right for the people to express themselves, checks and balances in government.''
 Mr. Bush also said in an interview with the Itar-Tass news agency on Friday that he would visit Moscow in May for the 60th anniversary of Russia's victory against the Germans in World War II.
 Both European and American officials said that they expected little if any change in their differences on Iran, in particular over its nuclear program, and that the United States would remain doubtful of the European approach of offering economic and political incentives to try to get Iran to drop what is suspected to be a program to develop nuclear arms. The Europeans counter that the talks will fail without the participation of the United States.
 Similarly, there is little chance for agreement on Europe's plans to lift an arms embargo it imposed on China in 1989 after the demonstrations in Tiananmen Square.
 The Bush administration is concerned that lifting the embargo may help China modernize its military, but the Europeans say they would limit the transfer of certain high technology by adopting a ''code of conduct'' for exports.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''The President's Trip to Europe''SUNDAY -- Arrives in Brussels.MONDAY -- Gives a speech on freedom and democracy. In the evening, gives a dinner in honor of President Jacques Chirac of France.TUESDAY -- Has breakfast with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. At NATO headquarters, meets with President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine and then with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. Meets with the leaders of the 25 member states of the expanded European Council, holds a news conference with top European officials and then has dinner with them.WEDNESDAY -- Leaves Brussels for Mainz, Germany. Holds a news conference with Chancellor Gerhard Schrder of Germany. Travels to Wiesbaden and meets with members of the Army's First Armored Division. Leaves for Bratislava, Slovakia.THURSDAY -- Gives a speech to Slovaks in Bratislava's town square. In the afternoon, meets with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and holds a news conference with him.Map of Europe highlights the cities and countries the President will visit. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Arms Sales Abroad; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); GERHARD SCHRODER (72%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (59%); TONY BLAIR (59%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (95%) UNITED STATES (99%); BELGIUM (98%); GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (97%); SLOVAKIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UKRAINE (79%); SYRIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe; European Union; Belgium; Brussels (Belgium); Germany; Slovakia; Iran; Europe; China; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



438 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Pataki Problem; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: New York: Blue and Getting Bluer

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
IT took 14 weeks of recounts and litigation before Nicholas A. Spano finally won re-election to the New York State Senate this month. By carrying his district in the Westchester suburbs of New York City -- by all of 18 votes -- Mr. Spano, now known as Landslide Nick, helped maintain the embattled Republican majority in the State Senate. 
 But he also achieved a more curious distinction: He broke a nationwide dead heat in state legislative seats. Counting Mr. Spano, the 2004 election made the count 3,657 Republicans and 3,656 Democrats; before last November, Republicans led by 64 seats. 
 That Mr. Spano was caught in such a squeaker illustrates an important truth: Republicans may be triumphant now at the national level, but that doesn't mean the party is doing well in the states, where all politics is local. 
 New York State has been something of an against-the-odds success story for Republicans. In national election-map parlance, it is obviously a blue state: it hasn't backed a Republican for president since Ronald Reagan in 1984 (though President Bush did better in New York against John Kerry than against Al Gore). Enrolled Democrats outnumber Republicans by about 5 to 3. In Congress, Democrats hold 19 of the 29 House seats, and they easily won both Senate seats.
 Switch to local politics, though, and the state looks much redder. The state has had a Republican governor for all but 20 of the last 60 years, including George E. Pataki's three terms so far. The Democrats last controlled both houses of the Legislature in 1965. The last two mayors of solidly Democratic New York City have been Republicans. The state's small towns and rural counties have overwhelmingly been in Republican hands, and until recently, so were the suburbs. 
 But lately, even as Republicans have been gaining ground nationally they have been losing it in New York, and in some other states around the country as well. The reasons are many, ranging from population shifts to an erosion of party identification. But one thing it does not necessarily seem to be about is ideology. 
 Voters look at national and local candidates through very different lenses, and party labels can mean different things. The accommodations of day-to-day governing at state and local levels mean that elected officials must often run afoul of party oratory just to get things done.
 As recently as the 1970's, New York City's northern and eastern suburbs were among the most reliably Republican places in the country. Now the county executives in the three largest suburban counties are all Democrats -- not because of a surge in liberalism, so much as because voters grew tired of entrenched incumbents and rebelled against mismanagement, scandal and the painful local consequences of budget cuts in Washington and Albany. The Democratic victors may soon find themselves vulnerable for the same reasons. 
 ''You can't say New York is a red state by virtue of the fact they elected a Republican governor or even a mayor,'' said Matthew Dowd, who was chief strategist to President Bush's campaign. ''New York is like California, where depending on the Republican, and the campaign, and the Democrat, the Republican can win.'' 
 Still, much of the wind has gone from Mr. Pataki's sails. If, as seems increasingly unlikely, he seeks a fourth term next year, the latest New York Times poll suggests that he would lose to the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer. Other polls find little chance of his unseating Hillary Rodham Clinton in a Senate race. 
 Few other Republicans of obvious statewide stature are coming up behind Mr. Pataki. He, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Michael R. Bloomberg, the current mayor, have all tended to be one-man shows; none has groomed a successor or galvanized the party's grass roots. Since voters in New York, even the Republicans, tend to be more liberal than their counterparts elsewhere on many issues, including abortion, affirmative action and the death penalty, Republicans who are able to win office often draw fire from the right. Conservatives grew so disgusted with Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in the 1960's that they split off to form their own party. 
 More recently, Mr. Pataki was blasted in the latest issue of National Review as a governor whose ''tenure as the Empire State's chief executive began with incredible promise -- but its legacy almost certainly will be one of squandered opportunity, shrunken ambition and conservative disappointment.'' 
 The disconnect between New York and national Republicans runs both ways. 
 ''The state's Republican leaders rose to national prominence when the kinds of moderate, pragmatic politics and policies that succeeded for them in New York were those that Republicans thought were necessary to win nationally,'' Gerald Benjamin, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at the State University at New Paltz, has written. ''The ideological polarization of the major parties made these appeals less attractive to the more conservative national G.O.P., while at the same time making the G.O.P. less attractive to New Yorkers.''
 Demographic trends in New York may be working against the Republicans as well: New York City's population is growing compared with that of the suburbs and upstate areas. 
 But politics is personal as well as local. Gerrymandering keeps incumbents in office, and campaign spending can trump party labels; voters may tire of old faces (after three terms, Mario M. Cuomo had worse ratings than Mr. Pataki does today), and candidates, and even parties, can blur their stripes, as Senator Clinton did recently by saying that proponents and opponents of abortion rights should find ''common ground'' to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies. 
 ''We have the women and abortion, but you lose a lot of people when you talk about third-trimester abortion,'' said Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell of Manhattan, the Democratic state chairman. ''We've got to be more rational about how we cure things, and what we're going to have to start to do is to make some better decisions about how we treat our friends.'' 
 Still, Mr. Farrell says confidently, New York is certainly a blue state. His Republican counterpart, Stephen Minarik, prefers A.B.B. -- anything but blue. ''How about purple?'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article Feb. 20 about the Republican Party's difficulties in New York State referred incorrectly to the party's hold on the governorship over the last 60 years. Democrats have held the office in 24 of those years, not 20. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photograph by Alan E. Solomon)Chart: ''A Decline in Stature''As recently as last fall, there was talk of a cabinet post and a 2008 presidential run for George E. Pataki, the three-term Republican governor of New York and an active national campaigner for President Bush. But he has been assailed by conservatives for not governing like one of them and by party activists for doing little for Republicans in his home state, and his star has dimmed.FOUR ROUGH MONTHS:ELECTION FALLOUTNovember 2004After Democrats gain seats in New York's Congressional delegation and both houses of the State Legislature, Republican officeholders like Congressmen Peter King and John Sweeney say the state party is in disarray, and Assemblyman Tom Kirwan assails Mr. Pataki for doing ''absolutely nothing to help.''THE NEW YORK TIMES POLLPublished Feb. 15, 2005Mr. Pataki's job approval rating among voters falls to 43 percent, a drop of 19 points from 2002 and the lowest since 1995, Mr. Pataki's first year in office. If a race for governor were held now, Mr. Pataki would lose decisively to Eliot Spitzer, the poll results indicate.NATIONAL REVIEW ARTICLEIssue of Feb. 28In a scathing cover article entitled ''Spurious George,'' Mr. Pataki is called ''disengaged'' and is criticized for failing to cut taxes and spending: ''The governor has strayed from the more or less conservative principles that marked his political rise, lost his ability to bend the State Legislature, and abandoned his responsibility to strengthen the G.O.P. in New York.''CATO INSTITUTE REPORTTo be published March 1In its report card on the fiscal records of the nation's governors issued every two years, the libertarian research and advocacy group calls Mr. Pataki's performance since 1998 ''dismal.'' It contrasts his recent performance on taxes and spending with his first years on the job: ''To regain economic freedom, what the Empire State desperately needs is the old George Pataki.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); SUBURBS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); BUDGETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); PETER T KING (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



439 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: To Win Subscribers, Satellite Radio Sells Surprises

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
WHY pay a monthly fee for satellite radio when you can get terrestrial AM/FM radio free? Why cope with another console and add to the tangle of wires and cables in your house when you can listen to radio stations around the world on the Internet -- not to mention download almost any kind of music you want? Sure, satellite radio is superfluous. You can live without it, but you may not want to, particularly if you get a kick out of hearing a soul-strumming song you have never heard before or may have forgotten you love. 
 Satellite radio has been available in the United States since 2001, when XM Satellite Radio introduced its service; Sirius Satellite Radio followed in 2002. Of course, each company will tell you that its satellite system, network of ground repeaters and compression technology offer better sound quality and a more reliable signal. But Michael Goodman, senior media analyst at the Yankee Group in Boston, who has spent considerable time listening to both providers, said that even ardent audiophiles would have trouble distinguishing between the two.
 ''XM and Sirius do what they do differently,'' he said, ''but they come out in the same place.'' Both offer CD-quality sound with minimal interruptions. And you'll never hear static because a satellite signal is either there or it isn't; there is no fuzzy in-between. 
 But the primary appeal of satellite radio for many of its millions of subscribers is the breadth and freshness of the programming. Because of market consolidation, terrestrial radio stations across the country have become remarkably similar. ''The commercials are endless, and the limited number of formats are targeted to some focus group somewhere but definitely not tailored to me,'' said James Fallon, a lawyer in Houston, who last year had a Sirius receiver installed in his wife's car and an XM receiver installed in his car. He isn't particularly partial to either provider. ''Doesn't matter,'' he said. ''They are both way, way better than regular radio.'' 
 Both XM and Sirius have more than 60 commercial-free music channels -- rock, reggae, alternative, classical and metal, among others. And both have at least 40 talk, news, sports and entertainment channels, though those are replete with ads. 
 ''You can always, always find something really good to listen to,'' Mr. Fallon said. 
 XM has 3.2 million subscribers, compared with 1.2 million for Sirius. That might be because of XM's earlier start and lower monthly fee of $9.99; Sirius charges $12.95. Both services give discounts if you pay several months or even years in advance. And Sirius offers a $499 lifetime subscription -- not for your lifetime, but for that of your satellite radio receiver, and who knows how long that will be. 
 Yes, you have to buy a special receiver. Receivers compatible with XM and Sirius services are available from manufacturers like Delphi and Audiovox for as little as $100. Then you need to pay an additional $50 to $70 for everything needed to make the receiver work: power adapter, antennas, connection cables and docking cradle. 
 Receivers, of course, also require speakers. You can plug the receiver directly into your home or car stereo or even a spare computer speaker. If you choose a receiver with a built-in wireless FM transmitter like the XM MyFi or Sirius Sportster, you can program it to send the audio to any nearby radio -- even a cheap clock radio. That is good if you want to listen to satellite radio anywhere you are. Subscribers can tune in across the continental United States, and some parts of Canada and Mexico, as long as a standard radio is available. 
 A disadvantage to using a wireless FM transmitter is occasional static caused by other devices transmitting at the same frequency.
 A more expensive option is to buy a home or car stereo receiver that is ''satellite ready.'' They cost $250 to $600 and come from manufacturers like Sony, Pioneer and Alpine. But they might instead be called ''almost satellite ready'' because buyers often have to pay an additional $100 or so for a tuner and antenna.
 Aesthetically, these units are better than external plug-and-play receivers because you don't have to cope with all those wires trailing from the device to your stereo. But the ''almost satellite ready'' devices are not portable, so you can't hook them up to any sound system anywhere you go. And you probably need to pay a professional $50 to $100 for precise positioning of the satellite antennae for the best reception. 
 Other considerations in selecting a satellite radio unit are the size and brightness of the display screen (which tells you channel, genre, artist and song title) and the ease with which you can change channels, especially if you plan to use it in a car. 
 Changing channels in a car ''can be kind of distracting,'' said Steve Mafosky, a software engineer at Microsoft in Redmond, Wash., who has a Sirius Sportster that he uses in his car and home. The Sportster has a relatively small screen, which can be hard to see at certain angles and requires you to turn a dial instead of touching a button if you want to channel-surf. 
 Mr. Mafosky subscribed to Sirius last year after Howard Stern announced that he was moving his syndicated show there. Mr. Stern won't start broadcasting on Sirius until January 2006, but in the meantime, Mr. Mafosky has discovered that he likes the music channels the service offers. 
 ''I can't believe all the stuff I've never heard before,'' he said.
 Though he has an MP3 player and more music CD's than he can count, he says he now finds himself listening to satellite radio the most.
 Many subscribers said they also liked the serendipity of satellite radio.
 ''My theory is that people enjoy music much more if they hear it as a surprise rather than if they'd carried a CD to the car and played it,'' said Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., who has written several books on the economics of the arts. Moreover, he said, ''satellite radio is an endless ocean of offbeat, great stuff that you might never hear otherwise.''

After a Test Drive, an Insatiable Ear
 I SPENT a week listening to satellite radio on portable receivers provided by XM and Sirius, and now I'm edgy and irritable without it. Understand that I don't like excess gadgetry. I don't have a toaster; I use my oven's broiler. And I don't have cable TV, because I don't think the programming is worth it. But satellite radio is different, mainly because of the music.
 Both services say they give complete creative control to programmers, who are hired because they are passionate and knowledgeable about a specific genre. It must be true, since the music is astoundingly good. Whether it was Mozart or Megadeth -- I heard crank-the-volume versions. And I discovered many artists -- particularly on XM -- whom I hadn't heard before. 
 The news, talk and entertainment channels were not so impressive. Both services have the usual offerings -- CNN, C-Span, CNBC and Fox News -- and left- and right-wing talk shows. Yawn. Sirius says it has NPR, but there is no ''Morning Edition'' or ''All Things Considered'' -- just a bunch of what to me were second-string programs. 
 XM has Major League Baseball and Nascar, and Sirius has the N.F.L. XM has more local traffic and weather channels. Sirius has more Spanish-language channels and programming aimed at niche audiences like gays, New Agers, stay-at-home moms and evangelical Christians. The XM signal briefly blipped out a few more times than the Sirius feed. But the Sirius receiver became hot to the touch after 20 minutes, which thermodynamics suggests is not a good thing. KATE MURPHY


CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about satellite radio services misspelled the surname of a Microsoft software engineer who said he liked one service's music channels. He is Steve Makofsky, not Mafosky. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Makofsky, who got a Sirius radio to hear Howard Stern starting next year, likes the variety of its music channels. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE RADIO (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (92%); YANKEE GROUP (56%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



440 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World: New World Order; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Europe United Is Good, Isn't It?

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
BACK in 2001, while preparing for his first trip across the Atlantic, President Bush startled some visitors with a question: Was the drive toward European unity good for the United States? 
 Then he smiled, as if to say he was just trying to learn more about a complex subject, a guest recalled.
 But now on the eve of Mr. Bush's first trip to Europe since re-election, the question hangs pungently in the air.
 Mr. Bush will go to Brussels, the capital of the new Europe, with a message that whatever bad feelings remain after the war in Iraq the United States embraces a newly integrated Europe and would not dream of sowing divisions for its own purposes. 
 Only a year and a half ago, though, The Weekly Standard, a conservative magazine with close ties to administration hawks, was arguing that the United States should oppose a united Europe because it would inevitably succumb to the supposedly weak-kneed policies of France and Germany.
 ''Can anyone now seriously believe that a single E.U. foreign policy will be more helpful to the United States than a British, a Polish, and a Spanish one?'' it asked.
 With that question, the magazine got to the heart of an argument that remains alive in at least parts of Washington.
 The case for the overriding importance of a united Europe to Mr. Bush's goals is in many ways obvious. Although the United States proved it could win the Iraq war by itself, it has found it cannot win the peace unless the world -- and Europe in particular -- blesses Iraq's transition to democracy. 
 Nor can it hope to lead Israel to the peace table without the Europeans leading the Palestinians there, too. Cooperation between the world's two biggest economic blocs, on everything from terrorism to natural disasters, is clearly critical for progress.
 Simply put, if a united Europe can agree with the United States, the two acting together are much more likely to succeed.
 After all, the 25-nation European Union weighs in with $11 trillion in economic output, roughly on par with the United States, and a currency so strong that the euro may one day replace the dollar as the principal means of exchange. And as a whole, the most turbulent Arab societies, including the Palestinians, trust the European Union's emissaries to look after their interests more than they trust President Bush.All of that said, some fear remains in parts of the Bush administration -- like the Defense Department and the office of Vice President Dick Cheney -- that this new Europe is not always in tune with American goals. Europe has, in this view, become lethargic, self-absorbed, even pacifist about protecting its interests.
 Some conservatives see this new Europe as focusing on building itself up as a counterweight to American interests, instead of being vigilant against new threats. 
 One focus of American concern is the kind of talk that was heard at a recent security conference of Europeans and Americans in Germany -- suggestions that Europeans want to downgrade the trans-Atlantic partnership of NATO in favor of a European Union with an independent military capability. That sort of talk enrages Bush administration officials, who see it as an attempt to lessen American say in how Europe uses its muscle. 
 While it may be true that no American administration has ever set a policy of wanting a divided Europe, skepticism about a unified Europe with its own military is neither new nor likely to disappear. 
 ''A lot of the language heard now about an independent European Union force was first invented by a very wary Clinton administration,'' said Robert Kagan, a conservative author who is now at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''America has always been of two minds about a united Europe. There's the Acheson model of needing a united Europe to keep the Germans in the game without alarming everyone, but we've always had our concern about Europe returning as a great power.''
 Mr. Kagan notes, however, that the United States won't be able to stop Europe from elevating the European Union over NATO if it wants to. ''We can't prevent it from happening,'' he said. ''We need to get over it and deal with it.''
 To some degree, Europeans have already welcomed the message that the United States has moved beyond the discussion of whether a united Europe is good or bad for Americans, in part because Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice went out of her way to assure Europe about American intentions when she visited on her own earlier this month.
 ''To me the debate in the United States is over, and it's very good that it's over,'' Javier Solana, the European Union's high representative for foreign and security policy, said in an interview. ''We are hearing a very clear message that it is better to have a European ally that is strong and united, even if it's more troublesome at times, than to have someone who is weak and divided.''
 To drive home that point, Mr. Bush will travel not to Paris or Berlin or London, but to Brussels, headquarters of NATO, the European Commission and the European Union, to proclaim his desire to work together against terrorism and nuclear proliferation and for Palestinian-Israeli peace talks and democratic reforms.
 Henry Kissinger, the former secretary of state, used to joke that he would take ''Europe'' seriously as an entity when it had a telephone number he could dial. Mr. Bush seems to recognize that the number at least has a Brussels area code. 
 Still, a feeling persists in Washington that the new Europe, impressive as it is, remains cumbersome and self-absorbed and that future crises may well require America to find allies where it can. On that score, some challenging examples are on the table for discussion -- notably Iran and China.
 In general, the United States wants to confront the government in Tehran over its suspected nuclear weapons development by threatening sanctions, hinting at future military actions and holding out hope that Iranians may throw out their current regime. 
 Europeans, in general, want instead to talk to Iran about economic and political incentives if it voluntarily abandons work that could produce a nuclear bomb. They are likely to appeal to Mr. Bush this week to join in such discussions or risk being blamed for their failure.
 But there are subtle divisions in Europe, with Britain sympathizing more with the American desire for confrontation, while France is somewhat less sympathetic and Germany the least. The Germans, in fact, are the most eager for the United States to join the negotiations. ''So far we've had expressions of support from Washington but not much actions of support,'' said Wolfgang Ischinger, the German ambassador here. 
 Similarly, on China, Europeans seem poised to lift an arms embargo, arguing that such a step is the best means to moderate China's behavior. The United States strenuously opposes this, saying it could dangerously tip the balance of power in East Asia. Here it is less clear whether there are differences in Europe to exploit, since European countries, across the board, are eager for contracts with the Chinese.
 FEW experts expect a convergence or consensus to emerge from Mr. Bush's discussion of these and other issues, but they say it would help if Europeans feel he is listening. 
 ''If the president just comes to Europe and says, 'We love you, but here is what you have to do,' he's not going to convince Europeans of anything,'' said Timothy Garton Ash, professor of European studies at St. Antony's College at Oxford University. ''He has to convey a sense of real conversation between two partners.''
 A final paradox of European-American tensions is this: The one American strategy most likely to unite Europe would be to try to divide it. That is because in a newly united and integrated Europe, former Communist countries like Poland have a much greater interest in keeping the social welfare, subsidies and economic boon they get by tying themselves to Europe than any advantage they might gain by heading off on a new military venture with the United States.
 ''It's not that Europeans think the United States wants a weakened, sluggish or divided Europe,'' said Tony Judt, the director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.
 ''The fear is that what American wants is a Europe that does its bidding,'' Mr. Judt said. ''But to suppose that because there are divisions in Europe, American policy can exploit them and turn some countries into American allies would be a big mistake. It would just backfire.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Sizing Up Friends (and Rivals)''Comparing the United States to the 25 nations of the European Union.United StatesAREA: 3.7 MILLION SQUARE MILESEuropean UnionAREA: 1.5 MILLION SQUARE MILESFERTILITYAverage number of children born per woman.U.S.: 2.1E.U.: 1.5REPLACEMENT LEVEL: 2.1POPULATION OVER AGE 65U.S.: 12.4%E.U.: 16.3%LIFE EXPECTANCY:MENU.S.: 74.5E.U.: 74.8 -- SWEDEN: 77.9WOMENU.S.: 79.9E.U.: 81.1 -- SPAIN -- 83.7CARS PER 10 PEOPLEU.S.: 7.7E.U.: 4.5POPULATIONU.S.: 293,030,000E.U.: 454,560,000GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCTU.S.: $11 trillionE.U.: $11 trillionPOPULATION DENSITY PER SQUARE MILEU.S.: 79E.U.: 302UNEMPLOYMENTU.S.: 5.2%E.U.: 8.9%ADULT SMOKERSU.S.: 22.5%E.U.: 33.9%(Drawings by Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(Sources by The European Union, Eurostat, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); BELGIUM (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



441 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Lawmaker Rallies Gas Plant Opposition

BYLINE: By John Rather

 BODY:
Suffolk County Legislator Jon Cooper, a Democrat from Lloyd Harbor, said on Tuesday that he would seek quick legislative action on a resolution he sponsored opposing Broadwater Energy Corporation's planned floating liquefied natural gas plant in Long Island Sound.
 Mr. Cooper said he was concerned that unless the county took a position against the $700 million project soon it would miss its opportunity to influence Broadwater to abandon the plan. Broadwater is a partnership formed by the TransCanada Corporation of Calgary, Alberta, and Shell U.S. Gas and Power of Houston. 
 Mr. Cooper said he also hoped that approval of his resolution would influence Nassau County, New York State and Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton to join in the opposition to the project. 
 He said he would seek a vote in the County Legislature's six-member Economic Development, Higher Education and Energy Committee to send the bill to the full Legislature. 
 If the committee fails to do so, he said, he would seek the votes of 10 of the 18 legislators to order the committee to release the resolution so the Legislature can consider it at its next meeting on March 15. 
 Mr. Cooper said the project would industrialize the Sound and lacked environmental safeguards. He also said he was concerned the plant would be vulnerable to terrorism and would win federal approval without sufficient review. 
 Broadwater officials and lobbyists including former Suffolk County Executive Robert Gaffney have met with Mr. Cooper and other legislators to argue for the project. Broadwater says it would safely deliver a new supply of natural gas to the region without the disruption of an onshore plant. The floating plant, the size of the Queen Mary 2, would be the first plant of its kind in the country and would open in 2010.
 The Town of Riverhead, Representative Timothy Bishop of Southampton and more than 30 civic and an environmental groups oppose the project. John Rather


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TRANSCANADA CORP (91%)

TICKER: TRP (TSX) (91%); TRP (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



442 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; ADVISORY: TRAVEL NOTES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Airlines and Fliers Hit Tax Plan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Air travelers and airlines have quickly established themselves as among the loudest critics of the budget proposed by President Bush for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1.
 The budget calls for taking in $1.5 billion more to pay for existing security with a $3 increase in the security surcharge of $2.50 per flight segment. 
The difference between security fees and spending now comes out of general tax revenues.
 The airlines, several in bankruptcy or near it, contend that anything that raises the cost of travel decreases demand, and thus their prospects for profitability.
 ''A tax on travelers is a tax on airlines,'' said James C. May, the president of the Air Transport Association, the trade association of the major airlines. ''U.S. airlines appear to be the only business in America that the administration has chosen to tax back to economic health.''
 Elected officials and passenger advocates did not like the idea, either. ''It's not that we don't want good security when we fly,'' said David S. Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association, an advocacy group. ''It's just that passengers shouldn't have to pay for it all when the entire country benefits from a safe, efficient, free-flowing air transportation system.'' 
 Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, complained in a letter to Mr. Bush that even before the proposed increase, taxes come to nearly 20 percent of the average domestic round-trip fare, which he put at $230.85. The taxes come to $45.87, including the security fee, federal segment tax of $3.20, 7.5 percent federal excise tax, and $4.50 ''passenger facility charge.'' 
 Hearings on the Transportation Security Administration's budget were to start Feb. 15. MATTHEW L. WALD


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AIR FARES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); EXCISE TAX (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



443 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Amtrak's Own Board Sows Alarm About System's Future

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
As Amtrak's supporters in Congress seek to renew the federal subsidy for the railroad despite President Bush's plan to eliminate federal aid, the railroad faces a new challenge: the ambivalence of its own board of directors.
 The board, whose four members were appointed by President Bush, missed a Feb. 15 deadline to submit a budget request to Congress. Two days later, the chairman, David M. Laney, sent a letter to Congress saying that the board plans to make a grant request, but that ''the status quo at Amtrak is neither viable nor acceptable.''
 The board said it was developing legislative proposals that ''would provide the foundation needed for the development of U.S. passenger rail service, whether or not Amtrak remains its chief steward.'' 
 The letter, combined with the language the Bush administration used to introduce its budget for the fiscal year starting in October, is raising alarm among Amtrak's supporters.
 ''With no subsidies, Amtrak would quickly enter bankruptcy, which would likely lead to the elimination of inefficient operations and the reorganization of the railroad through bankruptcy procedures,'' the Transportation Department said in a statement accompanying the budget. 
 ''Ultimately, a more rational passenger rail system would emerge,'' the department said, ''with service on routes where there is real ridership demand and support from local governments -- such as the Northeast Corridor.''
 Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, said in a telephone interview, ''This is the first time the administration has said its stated purpose is to put Amtrak into bankruptcy.'' She added that ''the independent board, by its silence, has put its stamp of approval on what the administration is doing, which is the exact opposite of what its mission is -- to tell Congress what is necessary to keep Amtrak running.''
 Mr. Laney, a Dallas lawyer and Bush campaign donor who is a former chairman of the Texas Transportation Commission, declined a request for an interview, as did the other two outside members of the board, Floyd Hall, of Montclair, N.J., a retired chairman of Kmart, and Enrique Sosa, of Miami. Amtrak's president, David Gunn, also declined a request for comment.
 Norman Y. Mineta, the secretary of transportation and the fourth board member, said in a session with reporters on Tuesday that an overhaul was essential.
 ''President Bush and I are very, very supportive of intercity passenger rail,'' he said. ''If we really wanted to kill it, we wouldn't lift a finger. That's not where we're coming from.'' 
 Mr. Mineta said one goal of proposing no subsidy was to stimulate Congress to overhaul the railroad. He said the federal government had given Amtrak $29 billion since its creation in 1971, with no end in sight.
 ''I'm afraid that maybe in three or four years, Congress will get tired of having to shoehorn another $1.2 billion or $900 million or whatever the amount is, and I'm afraid Amtrak will die,'' he said.
 The $1.2 billion figure is what Congress approved for the current fiscal year. Supporters say that because the railroad is aggressively trying to replace old infrastructure, some of it from the 1930's, it needs $1.5 billion next year.
 On Feb. 10, 35 senators signed a letter expressing ''deep concern'' about the Bush administration's plan to eliminate financing, saying, ''Amtrak has made real progress reforming itself over the last few years.''
 A fundamental disagreement is whether the railroad should be aiming at self-sufficiency. In 1997, Congress insisted that Amtrak become self-supporting within five years, and the railroad's management said it was on its way to doing so.
 It ran up deep debts, however, including mortgaging Pennsylvania Station in New York, and did not come close to breaking even. Current management does not believe the railroad can meet its operating and capital expenses through commercial revenues.
 The administration has proposed shifting intercity rail financing to make it more like transit financing, which includes federal aid but is mostly supported by the states. Mr. Mineta said that if one state on a long train route refused to contribute, ''you're going to run through that state without opening the door or stopping.'' 
 But other experts say eliminating stops would cut ridership and make the economics of money-losing trains even less favorable. And state budgets are even tighter than the federal one, they say.
 Some passenger rail advocates say the nation should focus on shorter routes in corridors with denser populations. They differ, however, on whether Amtrak should develop such routes, or whether a dissolution of Amtrak would help or hinder that plan. The administration would like to open the operation of such routes to private bidding, although there is some question about whether they would be profitable. 
 Amtrak supporters are critical of any mention of bankruptcy. John Robert Smith, a former Republican board member who was appointed Amtrak chairman by President Bill Clinton, said discussing bankruptcy ''can be a self-fulfilling prophecy.''
 ''It gets you an unclean audit, and bad credit, and it makes your suppliers and your lenders extremely nervous,'' said Mr. Smith, who is the mayor of Meridian, Miss.
 Amtrak is trying to arrange for repair or replacement of electric cables from the 1930's and the 85-year-old Thames River Bridge in Connecticut. The Transportation Department's inspector general warned last November that the railroad was at risk of a major failure that could shut down service for an extended period. 
 Unlike an airline bankruptcy, in which the system keeps running while managers try to reorganize, the goal in an Amtrak bankruptcy would be to sell the assets to satisfy creditors, the railroad's supporters say.
 ''They're committing corporate suicide, and they ought to be sued for doing it,'' said Ross Capon, the president of the National Association of Rail Passengers. 
 President Bush's budget provides $360 million to help maintain the operations of commuter railroads that use Amtrak-owned rails or stations. The board's letter to Congress notes that the Northeast Corridor, which stretches 456 miles from Washington to Boston, carries commuter trains bound for Boston; Providence, R.I.; New Haven; New York; Philadelphia; Wilmington, Del.; and Washington, and that Amtrak ''is distinctly a minority user on certain portions'' of the corridor.
 In Chicago last week, Mr. Mineta said some Amtrak assets might end up being owned by the commuter rail system there. He is to appear Tuesday in Charlotte, N.C., where a spokesman said he would speak approvingly of intercity passenger service that the state helps finance. 
 But some commuter lines are not eager to see changes. ''It would not be as simple as flipping a light switch and letting someone else be in charge,'' said Dan Stessel, a spokesman for New Jersey Transit.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Amtrak employees protested Monday at Union Station in Chicago, where Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta spoke. (Photo by Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%) Railroads; Bankruptcies; Finances; States (US); Boards of Directors ; Law and Legislation; Railroads

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Transportation Department (US); Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corp)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); CHRISTIE HEFNER (58%) Matthew L Wald; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



444 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3274 words

HEADLINE: In Secretly Taped Conversations, Glimpses of the Future President

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
As George W. Bush was first moving onto the national political stage, he often turned for advice to an old friend who secretly taped some of their private conversations, creating a rare record of the future president as a politician and a personality.
 In the last several weeks, that friend, Doug Wead, an author and former aide to Mr. Bush's father, disclosed the tapes' existence to a reporter and played about a dozen of them.
 Variously earnest, confident or prickly in those conversations, Mr. Bush weighs the political risks and benefits of his religious faith, discusses campaign strategy and comments on rivals. John McCain ''will wear thin,'' he predicted. John Ashcroft, he confided, would be a ''very good Supreme Court pick'' or a ''fabulous'' vice president. And in exchanges about his handling of questions from the news media about his past, Mr. Bush appears to have acknowledged trying marijuana. 
 Mr. Wead said he recorded the conversations because he viewed Mr. Bush as a historic figure, but he said he knew that the president might regard his actions as a betrayal. As the author of a new book about presidential childhoods, Mr. Wead could benefit from any publicity, but he said that was not a motive in disclosing the tapes.
 The White House did not dispute the authenticity of the tapes or respond to their contents. Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman, said, ''The governor was having casual conversations with someone he believed was his friend.'' Asked about drug use, Mr. Duffy said, ''That has been asked and answered so many times there is nothing more to add.'' 
 The conversations Mr. Wead played offer insights into Mr. Bush's thinking from the time he was weighing a run for president in 1998 to shortly before he accepted the Republican nomination in 2000. Mr. Wead had been a liaison to evangelical Protestants for the president's father, and the intersection of religion and politics is a recurring theme in the talks. 
 Preparing to meet Christian leaders in September 1998, Mr. Bush told Mr. Wead, ''As you said, there are some code words. There are some proper ways to say things, and some improper ways.'' He added, ''I am going to say that I've accepted Christ into my life. And that's a true statement.''
 But Mr. Bush also repeatedly worried that prominent evangelical Christians would not like his refusal ''to kick gays.'' At the same time, he was wary of unnerving secular voters by meeting publicly with evangelical leaders. When he thought his aides had agreed to such a meeting, Mr. Bush complained to Karl Rove, his political strategist, ''What the hell is this about?'' 
 Mr. Bush, who has acknowledged a drinking problem years ago, told Mr. Wead on the tapes that he could withstand scrutiny of his past. He said it involved nothing more than ''just, you know, wild behavior.'' He worried, though, that allegations of cocaine use would surface in the campaign, and he blamed his opponents for stirring rumors. ''If nobody shows up, there's no story,'' he told Mr. Wead, ''and if somebody shows up, it is going to be made up.'' But when Mr. Wead said that Mr. Bush had in the past publicly denied using cocaine, Mr. Bush replied, ''I haven't denied anything.'' 
 He refused to answer reporters' questions about his past behavior, he said, even though it might cost him the election. Defending his approach, Mr. Bush said: ''I wouldn't answer the marijuana questions. You know why? Because I don't want some little kid doing what I tried.''
 He mocked Vice President Al Gore for acknowledging marijuana use. ''Baby boomers have got to grow up and say, yeah, I may have done drugs, but instead of admitting it, say to kids, don't do them,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bush threatened that if his rival Steve Forbes attacked him too hard during the campaign and won, both Mr. Bush, then the Texas governor, and his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, would withhold their support. ''He can forget Texas. And he can forget Florida. And I will sit on my hands,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 The private Mr. Bush sounds remarkably similar in many ways to the public President Bush. Many of the taped comments foreshadow aspects of his presidency, including his opposition to both anti-gay language and recognizing same-sex marriage, his skepticism about the United Nations, his sense of moral purpose and his focus on cultivating conservative Christian voters.
 Mr. Wead said he withheld many tapes of conversations that were repetitive or of a purely personal nature. The dozen conversations he agreed to play ranged in length from five minutes to nearly half an hour. In them, the future president affectionately addresses Mr. Wead as ''Weadie'' or ''Weadnik,'' asks if his children still believe in Santa Claus, and chides him for skipping a doctor's appointment. Mr. Bush also regularly gripes about the barbs of the press and his rivals. And he is cocky at times. ''It's me versus the world,'' he told Mr. Wead. ''The good news is, the world is on my side. Or more than half of it.''
 Other presidents, such as Richard M. Nixon and Lyndon B. Johnson, secretly recorded conversations from the White House. Some former associates of President Bill Clinton taped personal conversations in apparent efforts to embarrass or entrap him. But Mr. Wead's recordings are a rare example of a future president taped at length without his knowledge talking about matters of public interest like his political strategy and priorities.
 Mr. Wead first acknowledged the tapes to a reporter in December to defend the accuracy of a passage about Mr. Bush in his new book, ''The Raising of a President.'' He did not mention the tapes in the book or footnotes, saying he drew on them for only one page of the book. He said he never sought to sell or profit from them. He said he made the tapes in states where it was legal to do so with only one party's knowledge. 
 Mr. Wead eventually agreed to play a dozen tapes on the condition that the names of any private citizens be withheld. The New York Times hired Tom Owen, an expert on audio authentication, to examine samples from the tapes. He concluded the voice was that of the president. 
 A White House adviser to the first President Bush, Mr. Wead said in an interview in The Washington Post in 1990 that Andrew H. Card Jr., then deputy chief of staff, told him to leave the administration ''sooner rather than later'' after he sent conservatives a letter faulting the White House for inviting gay activists to an event. But Mr. Wead said he left on good terms. He never had a formal role in the current president's campaign, though the tapes suggest he had angled for one.
 Mr. Wead said he admired George W. Bush and stayed in touch with some members of his family. While he said he has not communicated with the president since early in his first term, he attributed that to Mr. Bush's busy schedule. 
 Mr. Wead said he recorded his conversations with the president in part because he thought he might be asked to write a book for the campaign. He also wanted a clear account of any requests Mr. Bush made of him. But he said his main motivation in making the tapes, which he originally intended to be released only after his own death, was to leave the nation a unique record of Mr. Bush. 
 ''I believe that, like him or not, he is going to be a huge historical figure,'' Mr. Wead said. ''If I was on the telephone with Churchill or Gandhi, I would tape record them too.''

Summer of 1998
 The first of the taped conversations Mr. Wead disclosed took place in the summer of 1998, when Mr. Bush was running for his second term as Texas governor. At the time, Mr. Bush was considered a political moderate who worked well with Democrats and was widely admired by Texans of both parties. His family name made him a strong presidential contender, but he had not yet committed to run. 
 Still, in a conversation that November on the eve of Mr. Bush's re-election, his confidence was soaring. ''I believe tomorrow is going to change Texas politics forever,'' he told Mr. Wead. ''The top three offices right below me will be the first time there has been a Republican in that slot since the Civil War. Isn't that amazing? And I hate to be a braggart, but they are going to win for one reason: me.''
 Talking to Mr. Wead, a former Assemblies of God minister who was well connected in conservative evangelical circles, Mr. Bush's biggest concern about the Republican presidential primary was shoring up his right flank. Mr. Forbes was working hard to win the support of conservative Christians by emphasizing his opposition to abortion. ''I view him as a problem, don't you?'' Mr. Bush asked. 
 Mr. Bush knew that his own religious faith could be an asset with conservative Christian voters, and his personal devotion was often evident in the taped conversations. When Mr. Wead warned him that ''power corrupts,'' for example, Mr. Bush told him not to worry: ''I have got a great wife. And I read the Bible daily. The Bible is pretty good about keeping your ego in check.'' 
 In November 1999, he told his friend that he had been deeply moved by a memorial service for students who died in an accident when constructing a Thanksgiving weekend bonfire at Texas A&M University, especially by the prayers by friends of the students. 
 In another conversation, he described a ''powerful moment'' visiting the site of the Sermon on the Mount in Israel with a group of state governors, where he read ''Amazing Grace'' aloud. ''I look forward to sharing this at some point in time,'' he told Mr. Wead about the event. 
 Preparing to meet with influential Christian conservatives, Mr. Bush tested his lines with Mr. Wead. ''I'm going to tell them the five turning points in my life,'' he said. ''Accepting Christ. Marrying my wife. Having children. Running for governor. And listening to my mother.''
 In September 1998, Mr. Bush told Mr. Wead that he was getting ready for his first meeting with James C. Dobson, founder of Focus on the Family, an evangelical self-help group. Dr. Dobson, probably the most influential evangelical conservative, wanted to examine the candidate's Christian credentials. 
 ''He said he would like to meet me, you know, he had heard some nice things, you know, well, 'I don't know if he is a true believer' kind of attitude,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Mr. Bush said he intended to reassure Dr. Dobson of his opposition to abortion. Mr. Bush said he was concerned about rumors that Dr. Dobson had been telling others that the ''Bushes weren't going to be involved in abortion,'' meaning that the Bush family preferred to avoid the issue rather than fight over it.
 ''I just don't believe I said that. Why would I have said that?'' Mr. Bush told Mr. Wead with annoyance.
 By the end of the primary, Mr. Bush alluded to Dr. Dobson's strong views on abortion again, apparently ruling out potential vice presidents including Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania and Gen. Colin L. Powell, who favored abortion rights. Picking any of them could turn conservative Christians away from the ticket, Mr. Bush said. 
 ''They are not going to like it anyway, boy,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Dobson made it clear.''

Signs of Concern
 Early on, though, Mr. Bush appeared most worried that Christian conservatives would object to his determination not to criticize gay people. ''I think he wants me to attack homosexuals,'' Mr. Bush said after meeting James Robison, a prominent evangelical minister in Texas. 
 But Mr. Bush said he did not intend to change his position. He said he told Mr. Robison: ''Look, James, I got to tell you two things right off the bat. One, I'm not going to kick gays, because I'm a sinner. How can I differentiate sin?'' 
 Later, he read aloud an aide's report from a convention of the Christian Coalition, a conservative political group: ''This crowd uses gays as the enemy. It's hard to distinguish between fear of the homosexual political agenda and fear of homosexuality, however.'' 
 ''This is an issue I have been trying to downplay,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I think it is bad for Republicans to be kicking gays.''
 Told that one conservative supporter was saying Mr. Bush had pledged not to hire gay people, Mr. Bush said sharply: ''No, what I said was, I wouldn't fire gays.''
 As early as 1998, however, Mr. Bush had already identified one gay-rights issue where he found common ground with conservative Christians: same-sex marriage. ''Gay marriage, I am against that. Special rights, I am against that,'' Mr. Bush told Mr. Wead, five years before a Massachusetts court brought the issue to national attention.
 Mr. Bush took stock of conservative Christian views of foreign policy as well. Reading more of the report from the Christian Coalition meeting, Mr. Bush said to Mr. Wead: ''Sovereignty. The issue is huge. The mere mention of Kofi Annan in the U.N. caused the crowd to go into a veritable fit. The coalition wants America strong and wants the American flag flying overseas, not the pale blue of the U.N.''
 As eager as Mr. Bush was to cultivate the support of Christian conservatives, he did not want to do it too publicly for fear of driving away more secular voters. When Mr. Wead warned Mr. Bush to avoid big meetings with evangelical leaders, Mr. Bush said, ''I'm just going to have one,'' and, ''This is not meant to be public.''

Past Behavior
 Many of the taped conversations revolve around Mr. Bush's handling of questions about his past behavior. In August 1998, he worried that the scandals of the Clinton administration had sharpened journalists' determination to investigate the private lives of candidates. He even expressed a hint of sympathy for his Democratic predecessor.
 ''I don't like it either,'' Mr. Bush said of the Clinton investigations. ''But on the other hand, I think he has disgraced the nation.''
 When Mr. Wead warned that he had heard reporters talking about Mr. Bush's ''immature'' past, Mr. Bush said, ''That's part of my schtick, which is, look, we have all made mistakes.''
 He said he learned ''a couple of really good lines'' from Mr. Robison, the Texas pastor: ''What you need to say time and time again is not talk about the details of your transgressions but talk about what I have learned. I've sinned and I've learned.''
 ''I said, 'James' -- he stopped -- I said, 'I did some things when I was young that were immature,''' Mr. Bush said. ''He said, 'But have you learned?' I said, 'James, that's the difference between me and the president. I've learned. I am prepared to accept the responsibility of this office.'''By the summer of 1999, Mr. Bush was telling Mr. Wead his approach to such prying questions had evolved. ''I think it is time for somebody to just draw the line and look people in the eye and say, I am not going to participate in ugly rumors about me, and blame my opponents, and hold the line, and stand up for a system that will not allow this kind of crap to go on.'' 
 Later, however, Mr. Bush worried that his refusal to answer questions about whether he had used illegal drugs in the past could prove costly, but he held out nonetheless. ''I am just not going to answer those questions. And it might cost me the election,'' he told Mr. Wead.
 He complained repeatedly about the press scrutiny, accusing the news media of a ''campaign'' against him. While he talked of certain reporters as ''pro-Bush'' and commented favorably on some publications (U.S. News & World Report is ''halfway decent,'' but Time magazine is ''awful''), he vented frequently to Mr. Wead about what he considered the liberal bias and invasiveness of the news media in general.
 ''It's unbelievable,'' Mr. Bush said, reciting various rumors about his past that his aides had picked up from reporters. ''They just float sewer out there.'' 
 Mr. Bush bristled at even an implicit aspersion on his past behavior from Dan Quayle, the former vice president and a rival candidate. 
 ''He's gone ugly on me, man,'' Mr. Bush told Mr. Wead. Mr. Bush quoted Mr. Quayle as saying, ''I'm proud of what I did before 40.''
 ''As if I am not!'' Mr. Bush said.

Sizing Up Opponents
 During the primary contest, Mr. Bush often sized up his dozen Republican rivals, assessing their appeal to conservative Christian voters, their treatment of him and their prospects of serving in a future Bush administration. He paid particular attention to Senator John Ashcroft. ''I like Ashcroft a lot,'' he told Mr. Wead in November 1998. ''He is a competent man. He would be a good Supreme Court pick. He would be a good attorney general. He would be a good vice president.'' 
 When Mr. Wead predicted an uproar if Mr. Ashcroft were appointed to the court because of his conservative religious views, Mr. Bush replied, ''Well, tough.''
 While Mr. Bush thought the conservative Christian candidates Gary L. Bauer and Alan Keyes would probably scare away moderates, he saw Mr. Ashcroft as an ally because he would draw evangelical voters into the race. 
 ''I want Ashcroft to stay in there, and I want him to be very strong,'' Mr. Bush said. '' I would love it to be a Bush-Ashcroft race. Only because I respect him. He wouldn't say ugly things about me. And I damn sure wouldn't say ugly things about him.''
 But Mr. Bush was sharply critical of Mr. Forbes, another son of privilege with a famous last name. Evangelicals were not going to like him, Mr. Bush said. ''He's too preppy,'' Mr. Bush said, calling Mr. Forbes ''mean spirited.''
 Recalling the bruising primary fight Mr. Forbes waged against Bob Dole in 1996, Mr. Bush told Mr. Wead, ''Steve Forbes is going to hear this message from me. I will do nothing for him if he does to me what he did to Dole. Period. There is going to be a consequence. He is not dealing with the average, you know, 'Oh gosh, let's all get together after it's over.' I will promise you, I will not help him. I don't care.'' 
 Another time, Mr. Bush discussed offering Mr. Forbes a job as economic adviser or even secretary of commerce, if Mr. Forbes would approach him first.
 Mr. Bush's political predictions were not always on the mark. Before the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Bush all but dismissed Senator John McCain, who turned out to be his strongest challenger.
 ''He's going to wear very thin when it is all said and done,'' he said.
 When Mr. Wead suggested in June 2000 that Mr. McCain's popularity with Democrats and moderate voters might make him a strong vice presidential candidate, Mr. Bush almost laughed. ''Oh, come on!'' He added, ''I don't know if he helps us win.''
 Mr. Bush could hardly contain his disdain for Mr. Gore, his Democratic opponent, at one point calling him ''pathologically a liar.'' His confidence in the moral purpose of his campaign to usher in ''a responsibility era'' never wavered, but he acknowledged that winning might require hard jabs. ''I may have to get a little rough for a while,'' he told Mr. Wead, ''but that is what the old man had to do with Dukakis, remember?''
 For his part, Mr. Wead said what was most resonant about the conversations with Mr. Bush was his concern that his past behavior might come back to haunt him. Mr. Wead said he used the tapes for his book because Mr. Bush's life so clearly fit his thesis: that presidents often grow up overshadowed by another sibling. 
 ''What I saw in George W. Bush is that he purposefully put himself in the shadows by his irresponsible behavior as a young person,'' Mr. Wead said. That enabled him to come into his own outside the glare of his parents' expectations, Mr. Wead said. 
 Why disclose the tapes? ''I just felt that the historical point I was making trumped a personal relationship,'' Mr. Wead said. Asked about consequences, Mr. Wead said, ''I'll always be friendly toward him.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Doug Wead, an author and former aide to President Bush's father. (Photo by The Washington Times)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%) Presidential Election of 2000; Recordings (Audio); Election Issues; Biographical Information; Presidential Election of 2000

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); KARL ROVE (58%) David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush; Doug Wead

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



445 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Spurs' Ginobili Is Predictably Unpredictable

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

DATELINE: DENVER, Feb. 19 

 BODY:
Not even Manu knew. 
 He was like any other youngster, watching every N.B.A. All-Star Game on tape in the basketball-crazy city of Bahia Blanca, Argentina, staying out so late practicing that his father had to call him in to bed. 
 Emanuel Ginobili, known as Manu, grew up wanting to conquer Europe. But the N.B.A.? He wanted to play with his friends for Argentina's national team. But the Olympics? 
 Michael Jordan's poster was taped to his bedroom wall, and his older brothers served as basketball tutors, but Ginobili simply wanted to be like Manu, a mold he alone created and one now every young baller in Argentina wants to emulate.
 Ginobili, 27, who was drafted six years ago with a shrug by the San Antonio Spurs at No. 57, never thought he would become an All-Star in his third season.
 But unpredictability is his trademark, and it became his ticket to the All-Star celebration here. ''Now that I'm part of it, it's unbelievable,'' said Ginobili, a 6-foot-6 shooting guard.
 Over the last four years, Ginobili has spun the globe the way he has defenders -- with frantic flair and espresso-fueled passion for the game. 
 Along the way, he has won everywhere and everything, starting with the Euroleague championship in 2001 with Virtus Kinder Bologna in Italy. In his 2002-3 rookie season with the Spurs, Ginobili won an N.B.A. title. 
 Last summer, Ginobili took home a gold medal from the Athens Olympics, validating his talent and confirming that the United States is no longer the pre-eminent international power.
 ''Sometimes I think of the places I have played and it's incredible,'' Ginobili said on a bus Wednesday night as the Spurs entered the All-Star Game break with the best record (41-12) in the league.
 ''I'm still playing and I started 6,000 miles from here,'' he said. ''I wasn't sure at all. My biggest goal was to win a championship in Europe. Every time I won something, I felt like I was in heaven.'' 
 Asked if he could have imagined his success last season, Ginobili laughed and said, ''It was an impossible dream.''
 R.C. Buford, the Spurs' general manager, spoke of Ginobili's potential a bit differently when he called the decision to draft him in the second round a ''wild guess.'' 
 But finding unheralded stars from emerging basketball lands has become the Spurs' trademark as they use their extensive international scouting.
 ''I think they got lucky to get me,'' said Ginobili, who is averaging 15.9 points, 4 assists and 4.5 rebounds a game this season. ''When I was 22 I was not yet a good player, and they let me develop.''
 Buford said: ''We didn't see him any place that other teams weren't. We got fortunate that a lot of things came together to allow us to get his rights. The biggest credit is to Manu because he's the one who built his abilities and unconventional game.''
 Ginobili (pronounced jin-OH-bili) began playing professionally in 1995 when he was 18, then moved to Italy in 1999 to play in Reggio Calabria. Two years later, he moved to a better team, in Bologna, and won the Euroleague title that season.
 ''Every time he faced a higher step, the first time he might just be O.K., but he would learn,'' Ettore Messina, his coach in Bologna, said Friday in a telephone interview. ''His first Euroleague game in Athens, he scored 1 point. Six months later, we won the championship and he was the M.V.P. of the series.''
 But Messina said he could not have charted Ginobili's sudden spurt of success. ''I was sure he was going to be a pretty great N.B.A. player, but I was not expecting him to do it that quickly,'' Messina said. 
 But that is Ginobili's nature, to turn the improbable into reality.
 ''Manu has incredible control of his body in the air,'' Messina said. ''He's like a snake sometimes, he can bend, move and do the strangest things. He's not afraid of contact.''
 Kobe Bryant and Charles Barkley call Ginobili their favorite player for his contortionist moves. His teammate Tim Duncan marveled at how Ginobili had infused the Spurs with new energy. 
 ''With his controlled chaos, he changes the game for us,'' Duncan said. ''I think we've played with such a structure for so many years, to add an aspect like that, it helps us tremendously.'' 
 Ask Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich and he will shake his head at Ginobili's maddening style. ''You have to let Manu be Manu,'' Popovich said. 
 They have come to a tacit agreement after three years of film sessions. Instead of going for every steal on an inbounds pass or on a full-court press, Ginobili might do that three times a week. 
 ''One of Manu's real strengths is his unpredictability,'' Popovich said, ''and if I try to pigeonhole and take that away, I think it would affect all parts of his game. Whether it's making a steal an unorthodox way, going to the offensive boards when he shouldn't, taking a 3 when I'm jumping off my seat, I've decided that I just let him play.''
 Last summer, Ginobili signed a six-year, $52 million deal to stay a Spur despite being courted by other teams. But in Argentina, it was one of the richest contracts ever signed by an athlete, which became an instant cause for celebration and alarm.
 ''Right now he is by far the most popular athlete in Argentina, that there isn't anyone else on his level, whether it be a 'footballista' or anyone else that compares to him,'' his father, Jorge, said matter-of-factly through an interpreter Thursday in a telephone interview.
 Jorge, Ginobili's former coach and president of the Bahiense del Norte basketball club, knows painfully about fame. After Ginobili signed his contract, the police informed him that kidnapping threats were made against his father. Ginobili installed a security system and had guards around the clock outside the family's home, where they have lived for 34 years.
 ''There was a time there we felt uneasy,'' Jorge Ginobili said. ''The economic situation here is a fundamental problem. When the people see how much they he signs a contract for, it creates that animosity.''
 Manu Ginobili said that, for now, he had been able to reduce the security. ''There's a risk,'' he said. ''There's not a day goes by when I'm not worried.''
 Ginobili continues to be accessible, even if at a safe distance, to his fans. He runs his own Web site and is continually on the Internet, responding to e-mail messages. 
 ''The flair and the fearlessness that he lives on the court, he is almost the polar opposite as an individual,'' Buford said. ''He's a very quiet, very secure man, and anybody would be lucky to be his friend. 
 Back in Argentina, Ginobili and his wife, Marianela, have donated money to two orphanages and basketball schools. 
 ''He's still the same person when he was a child, we are really satisfied with how he has handled it all,'' Jorge said. ''Manu is just Manu. He always wanted things better for himself.''
 He is never satisfied. After he led Argentina's upset of the United States team in the semifinals of the 2002 world championships in Indianapolis, he sprained his ankle in the semifinal game against Serbia and Montenegro and sat dejectedly with all of his teammates in a restaurant. 
 ''Because of the team effort, the way we played in Indy, the way we lost it, it was really helpful for us to grow up,'' Ginobili said. ''That experience taught us that we were not going to make the mistake when it happened again.''
 Ginobili is the linchpin to a Spurs team favored to win another championship. Together with Tony Parker of France; Duncan, of the United States Virgin Islands; and Rasho Nesterovic and Beno Udrih of Slovenia, Ginobili represents the new movement in the league, which has 79 international players on 30 teams.
 ''The foreign players used to be all big men or small forwards, Nowitzki, Stojakovic; of course, there was Drazen Petrovic,'' Ginobili said. ''We are the first of the guards, me and Tony. Now we are the new image.
 ''Years ago, the feeling was with foreign players, he's got skills but he can't play D. That's not true anymore.''
 The Spurs drafted another Argentine, Luis Scola, a power forward playing in Spain. Ginobili said Scola was ready to play in the N.B.A now. 
 ''If you want the best league in the world, you need the best players in the world,'' Ginobili said.
 This weekend, he has finally realized he is one of them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Spurs guard Manu Ginobili will play in his first N.B.A. All-Star Game tonight in Denver. (Photo by Eric Gay/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
Manu Ginobili, a slithery guard from Argentina, is averaging 15.9 points a game this season for San Antonio. (Photo by Matt York/Associated Press)
 Ginobili, left, recently signed a fan's Argentine flag. He led his country's Olympic team to a victory over the United States in Athens last summer. (Photo by Robert Padgett/Reuters)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%) Basketball; All-Star Games

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (94%); DENVER NUGGETS (59%) San Antonio Spurs

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%) Liz Robbins; Manu Ginobili

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); ITALY (79%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2005



446 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1980 words

HEADLINE: More Africans Enter U.S. Than in Days of Slavery

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For the first time, more blacks are coming to the United States from Africa than during the slave trade.
 Since 1990, according to immigration figures, more have arrived voluntarily than the total who disembarked in chains before the United States outlawed international slave trafficking in 1807. More have been coming here annually -- about 50,000 legal immigrants -- than in any of the peak years of the middle passage across the Atlantic, and more have migrated here from Africa since 1990 than in nearly the entire preceding two centuries.
 New York State draws the most; Nigeria and Ghana are among the top 20 sources of immigrants to New York City. But many have moved to metropolitan Washington, Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, Boston and Houston. Pockets of refugees, especially Somalis, have found havens in Minnesota, Maine and Oregon. 
 The movement is still a trickle compared with the number of newcomers from Latin America and Asia, but it is already redefining what it means to be African-American. The steady decline in the percentage of African-Americans with ancestors who suffered directly through the middle passage and Jim Crow is also shaping the debate over affirmative action, diversity programs and other initiatives intended to redress the legacy of slavery. 
 In Africa, the flow is contributing to a brain drain. But at the same time, African-born residents of the United States are sharing their relative prosperity here by sending more than $1 billion annually back to their families and friends. 
 ''Basically, people are coming to reclaim the wealth that's been taken from their countries,'' said Howard Dodson, director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, which has just inaugurated an exhibition, Web site and book, titled ''In Motion,'' to commemorate the African diaspora. 
 The influx has other potential implications, from recalibrating the largely monolithic way white America views blacks to raising concerns that American-born blacks will again be left behind. 
 ''Historically, every immigrant group has jumped over American-born blacks,'' said Eric Foner, the Columbia University historian. ''The final irony would be if African immigrants did, too.'' 
 The flow from Africa began in the 1970's, mostly with refugees from Ethiopia and Somalia, and escalated in the 1990's, when the number of black residents of the United States born in sub-Saharan Africa nearly tripled. Combined with the much larger flow of Caribbean blacks, the recent arrivals from Africa accounted for about 25 percent of black population growth in the United States over all during the decade. Nationally, the proportion of blacks who are foreign born rose to about 7.3 percent from 4.9 percent in the 1990's. In New York City, about 1 in 3 blacks are foreign born. 
 According to the census, the proportion of black people living in the United States who describe themselves as African-born, while still small, more than doubled in the 1990's, to 1.7 percent from about 0.8 percent, for a total estimated conservatively at more than 600,000. About 1.7 million United States residents identify their ancestry as sub-Saharan. 
 Those numbers reflect only legal immigrants, who have been arriving at the rate of about 50,000 a year, first mostly as refugees and students and more recently through family reunification and diversity visas. Many speak English, were raised in large cities and capitalist economies, live in families headed by married couples and are generally more highly educated and have higher-paying jobs than American-born blacks.
 There is no official count of the many others who entered the country illegally or have overstayed their visas and who are likely to be less well off. 
 Kim Nichols, co-executive director of the African Services Committee, which directs newcomers to health care, housing and other services in the New York region, estimates that the number of illegal African immigrants dwarfs the legal ones. ''We think it's a multiple of at least four,'' she said. 
 Africans' reasons for coming echo the aspirations of earlier immigrants.
 ''Senegal became too small,'' said Marie Lopy, who arrived as a student in 1996, worked as a bookkeeper in a restaurant and earned an associate degree in biology from the City University of New York. 
 After winning a place in an American immigration lottery that his secretary had entered for him in 1994, Daouda Ndiaye recalls being persuaded by his six children to leave Senegal, where he was working as a financial manager. ''I said, 'I'm 45, I'd have to build a whole new life, I'd have to go to school to learn English,''' he recalled. ''They said, 'We want you to go and we want you to send for us because there's more opportunity in the U.S. than here.''' 
 His wife and two of his children have joined him in the United States, where he has worked as a sporting goods store manager and is now a translator.
 That the latest movement of black Africans arriving voluntarily surpasses the total who disembarked in chains before the United States outlawed international slave trafficking is a bit of a statistical anomaly. That total, most historians now agree, was about 500,000, with an annual peak of perhaps 30,000, compared with the millions overall who were sold into slavery from Africa. Many died aboard ship. Most were transported to the Caribbean and Brazil, where they were vulnerable to indigenous diseases and to the rigors of raising sugar cane, which was harder to cultivate than cotton or rice, the predominant crops on plantations in the United States, where the slave population was better able to survive and reproduce. 
 Moreover, black Africans represented a much higher proportion of the population then than they do today. In 1800, about 20 percent of the 5 million or so people in the United States were black. Among nearly 300 million Americans today, about 13 percent are black. 
 Still, with Europe increasingly inhospitable and much of Africa still suffering from the ravages of drought and the AIDS epidemic and the vagaries of economic mismanagement, the number migrating to the United States is growing -- despite the reluctance of some Africans to come face to face with the effects of centuries of enduring discrimination.
 In the 1960's, 28,954 legal immigrants were admitted from all of Africa, a figure that rose geometrically to 80,779 in the 1970's, 176,893 in the 1980's and 354,939 in the 1990's. In 2002, 60,269 were admitted, including 8,291 from Nigeria, 7,574 from Ethiopia, 4,537 from Somalia, 4,256 from Ghana and 3,207 from Kenya.
 To many Americans, the most visible signs of the movement are the proliferation of African churches, mosques, hair-braiding salons, street vendors and supermarket deliverymen, the controversy over female genital mutilation and the election last year of Barack Obama, son of a native Kenyan, to the United States Senate from Illinois. Especially in New York City, the shooting deaths of two unarmed African immigrants, Amadou Diallo from Guinea in 1999 and Ousmane Zongo from Burkina Faso in 2003, come to mind. 
 Immigrants arrive with their own perceptions and expectations, from countries where blacks constitute a majority at every level of society, only to discover that whether they are professors or peddlers, they may be lumped together here by whites and even by American-born blacks. 
 ''You have the positive impact that race is not seen to be an absolute definer of people's opportunities,'' Kathleen Newland, director of the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, said, ''but that begs the larger question of what does it mean to have a black skin in the United States.''
 Agba Mangalabou, who arrived from Togo in 2002, recalls his surprise when he moved here from Europe. ''In Germany, everyone knew I was African,'' he said. ''Here, nobody knows if I'm African or American.'' 
 Ms. Lopy, who now works as a medical interpreter for the African Services Committee, describes herself as ''African, first and foremost,'' though the identity of her children will depend on whom she marries and where. ''I'll raise them to be African-something,'' she said, ''but ultimately they'll define it for themselves.'' 
 Sylviane A. Diouf, a historian and researcher at the New York Public Library's Schomburg Center and Dr. Dodson's co-author of ''In Motion,'' said that Americans have a more positive view of immigrants in general than they do of American-born blacks. Referring to African immigrants, she said: ''They are better educated, they're here to work, to prosper, they're more compliant and don't pose a threat.''
 Dr. Dodson added, ''They're not politically mobilized as yet and not as closely tied to the African-American agenda.'' 
 While the ancestors of most Caribbean-born blacks were enslaved, and slavery also victimized the forbears of many African-born blacks, the growing proportion of immigrants may further complicate the debate over programs envisioned to redress the legacies of slavery. 
 ''I think there is a legitimate set of specific claims by persons born in the United States that don't necessarily apply to Caribbean or African populations that have come here subsequently,'' Dr. Dodson said. 
 ''African-born and Caribbean-born brothers and sisters have realized that the police don't discriminate on the basis of nationality -- ask Amadou Diallo,'' said Professor Charles J. Ogletree Jr., who teaches at Harvard Law School and has warned colleges and universities that admitting mostly foreign-born blacks to meet the goals of affirmative action is insufficient. 
 ''Whether you are from Brazil or from Cuba, you are still products of slavery,'' he continued. ''But the threshold is that people of African descent who were born and raised and suffered in America have to be the first among equals.'' 
 French-speaking Haitians do not necessarily mix with English-speaking West Indians, much less with Africans, and competition for jobs has been another source of tension. 
 ''The Africans tend to be quite industrious and entrepreneurial and often take advantage of opportunities that might have been here for others before,'' said Kim Nichols of the African Services Committee. 
 ''We're talking about very profoundly different cultures,'' Kathleen Newland said. 
 Analyses by the Department of City Planning, and by the Lewis Mumford Center for Comparative Urban and Regional Research, in Albany found recent immigrants often segregated from other blacks. The census found Nigerian clusters in Flatlands and Canarsie in Brooklyn and Ghanaians in Morris Heights and High Bridge in the Bronx. 
 ''As with European ethnics at the turn of the century,'' Joseph J. Salvo, the director of the population division of the Department of City Planning, and Arun Peter Lobo, the deputy director, wrote recently, ''ethnicity has been a powerful force in shaping black residential settlement in New York.'' 
 Immigration may also shift some of the nation's focus from racial distinctions to ethnic ones. ''Certainly, South Africa showed us that minority status does not necessarily correlate to one's position in society, but rather that power and its uses are the issues,'' said Samuel K. Roberts of Columbia, a history professor who is also on the faculty of the university's Institute for Research in African-American Studies. ''That being said, increasingly distinguishing between black Americans and black Africans may produce conditions in which we will be less prone to think of a fictional construct of 'race' as the distinguishing factor among all of us in North America.''
 How long might those distinctions last? ''I guess one of the questions will have to be what happens in the next generation or two,'' said Professor Foner of Columbia. ''In America, marriage is the great solvent. Are they going to melt into the African-American population? Most likely yes.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ajah Fatou Camara at the Joloff restaurant in Brooklyn, which serves West African food
she is the mother of the owners, who are from Senegal. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)
Daouda Ndiaye, from Senegal, has worked here for 13 years and is now a translator. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 The Senegalese Fashion Center on Fulton Street in Brooklyn is run by Abdou Diop, a Senegalese immigrant. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times(pg. A1)Chart: ''Out of Africa''According to the 2000 census, the proportion of black Americans who describe themselves as African-born more than doubled in the 1990's.UNITED STATES BLACK POPULATION1990AMERICAN BORN: 28,034,2752000AMERICAN BORN: 33,048,095% OF BLACK POPULATION1990: 96%2000: 941990-2000 GROWTH: +18%1990CARIBBEAN BORN: 924,6932000CARIBBEAN BORN: 1,542,895% OF BLACK POPULATION1990: 32000: 41990-2000 GROWTH: +671990AFRICAN BORN: 229,4882000AFRICAN BORN: 612,548% OF BLACK POPULATION1990: 12000: 21990-2000 GROWTH: +167Metropolitan areas with the largest black African-born populationsWashington1990: 32,2482000: 80,2811990-2000 GROWTH: +149New York1990: 31,5322000: 73,8511990-2000 GROWTH: +134Atlanta1990: 8,9192000: 34,3021990-2000 GROWTH: +285Minneapolis-St. Paul1990: 3,7882000: 27,5921990-2000 GROWTH: +628Los Angeles1990: 16,8262000: 25,8291990-2000 GROWTH: +54Boston1990: 11,9892000: 24,2311990-2000 GROWTH: +102Houston1990: 9,8822000: 22,6381990-2000 GROWTH: +129Chicago1990: 8,7382000: 19,4381990-2000 GROWTH: +122Dallas1990: 7,3732000: 19,1341990-2000 GROWTH: +160Philadelphia1990: 5,0982000: 16,3441990-2000 GROWTH: +221Largest black African-born populations in the U.S. by countries of birthNigeria1980: 22,1011990: 51,0372000: 109,198Ghana1980: 7,0231990: 17,7512000: 50,649Ethiopia1980: 4,8701990: 30,9572000: 47,791Liberia1980: 2,3201990: 8,4962000: 30,577Somalia1980: 2821990: 1,3712000: 22,646Kenya1980: 1,8601990: 5,5712000: 21,576Map of Africa highlighting Ethiopia, Ghana, Liberia, Somalia, Nigeria, Kenya.(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); HISTORY (75%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (68%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (95%); SENEGAL (94%); SOMALIA (94%); ETHIOPIA (93%); GHANA (93%); LIBERIA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); KENYA (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



447 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: Alarm Over Single AIDS Case Is Challenged by Questioners

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN; Andrew Pollack in Los Angeles and Carol Pogash in San Francisco contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
New York City's health commissioner, Thomas R. Frieden, had barely stepped away from the microphone on Feb. 11 after announcing the discovery of a possibly new and deadly H.I.V. strain when the storm started. More than a week later, it has not abated.
 One group of scientists not involved in the research was quick to dismiss the news as isolated to one man and unworthy of alarm. Other scientists said not enough research had been done to warrant a public health announcement, and accused Dr. Frieden of excessive haste.
 Gay activists worried that Dr. Frieden's use of the announcement to emphasize safe-sex practices would set up gay men as culprits, reviving a concern as old as the disease. Longstanding rivalries among top AIDS researchers resurfaced, and one of the researchers who discovered the possible strain was accused of using a test developed by a company to which he had close ties. 
 To those who expect government officials to keep diseases at bay, it might seem surprising that a public health announcement about a deadly virus would be attacked, but AIDS is not like tuberculosis or polio. From the moment that H.I.V. was discovered, it caused political chasms and profound disagreements among experts, and in recent weeks the virus seemed to be proving that it could still be treacherous and surprising, both as a deadly disease and a political fuse. 
 ''The old jealousies, rivalries and big egos,'' said Kevin Robert Frost, vice president of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, when asked why the response was so furious. ''Scientists in general react negatively to news by press conference.''
 At one level, the reaction illustrates the intense competition among scientists and their institutions to communicate new findings and get credit, crucial in obtaining money to expand their research. Many experts have been involved in the field for years, and in some cases their professional disagreements have developed into the animosities and outright personal hatreds that are common in academia.
 Nonetheless, scientists, skeptics by nature and training, have a fundamentally different role than public health officials, who often have to take emergency measures to stop the spread of disease.
 As a result, some research scientists said the appearance of a possible drug-resistant and virulent strain of the virus in one 46-year-old man meant little. The man's immune system might have been compromised by the crystal methamphetamine he had taken, they said, or the virus could have rapidly led to full-blown AIDS for other reasons that needed additional investigation before the public was alerted.
 ''This is a nonstory,'' Dr. Paul Volberding, director of the Center for AIDS Research at the University of California, San Francisco, said in an interview, noting that the pace of change from H.I.V. to AIDS depended not only on the virus but also the patient. ''There have been many cases of rapid progression. The New York case is only that, a case report.''
 But public health officials said that with the battle against AIDS possibly on the verge of a new phase, where drug-resistant strains become harder to treat, Dr. Frieden was right to go public. Dr. Alfred Sommer, the dean of the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore, said health officials often did not have the luxury of waiting for full scientific information before acting.
 ''For most things we do, we do not have ironclad proof one way or the other,'' he said.
 Dr. Frieden said that his initial announcement clearly contained cautions and unknowns, but that his actions were necessary given the potential public health effects.
 ''We had enough clinical and scientific information to warrant making the announcement because of the immediate implications for the community, and for doctors practicing in New York City,'' he said.
 ''We run the risk of either being a dollar short and a day late, or shouting fire in a crowded theater,'' said Dr. Michael T. Osterholm, director of for the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota. ''The question is,'' he said of Dr. Frieden, ''is he a prophet today or is he a prophet 10 years from now?''
 The debate is likely to grow louder beginning tomorrow in Boston when 3,800 of the world's top AIDS experts are to meet in a conference to discuss an array of new scientific findings. Long after the deadline for submissions of reports had passed, the doctors who handled the New York City case, Dr. David D. Ho and Dr. Martin Markowitz, asked for a waiver to discuss the findings about the possible strain they had made at the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center in Manhattan. After much wrangling, the organizers of the meeting agreed to hold an unusual special session for the disagreement about the city's announcement.
 But scientists were not the only ones upset about the city's actions. Some gay activists asserted that Dr. Frieden was using the possible new strain as a scare tactic to get gay men to practice safe sex, an accusation he denied.
 Charles King, the president of Housing Works, an AIDS support group, said the announcement could be used to demonize the gay lifestyle and accused Dr. Frieden of having wanted to change regulations regarding H.I.V. testing for a long time. The Community H.I.V./AIDS Mobilization Project, based in New York, said the link between the spread of the possible new strain and the use of crystal methamphetamine was unproven, and suggested that the city had ignored the ''underlying issues'' behind the spread of the virus, like discrimination, poor housing and unemployment.
 ''Rather than increasing awareness of the risks of unsafe sex and crystal use, the Health Department risks stigmatizing gay men as crazed drug addicts carelessly or wantonly spreading a killer bug,'' Community H.I.V./AIDS Mobilization Project said in a statement. ''In this case, the Health Department seems to offer little to the understanding of the root causes and potential solutions to drug use apart from the discredited strategy of Nancy Reagan, 'Just say no.'''
 Martin Delaney, the founding director of Project Inform, a nonprofit AIDS foundation, said the city had been needlessly alarmist. ''By pushing this out early, the public health department set off panic nationwide, before the scientific community had had a chance to see the scientific data,'' Mr. Delaney said.
 Several gay activists said Dr. Frieden was motivated, in part, by a close relationship with the Aaron Diamond Center, a charge that city officials dismissed as ridiculous. The center was created in 1988 to study the basic science of AIDS as a joint venture of the city's Health Department, the New York University School of Medicine, and the Aaron Diamond Foundation, a philanthropic organization. Upon becoming commissioner in 2002, Dr. Frieden joined the center's board, as had all his predecessors since the founding of the institution. Health Department officials say he has no financial interest in the center. 
 Dr. Ho, then a relatively unknown 37-year-old researcher fresh from Harvard and U.C.L.A., was hired to run the center in 1989 and immediately attracted attention. With more money at his disposal than most other research institutions, Dr. Ho became the object of envy as top-flight scientists lined up to join his center. Within a few years, Dr. Ho's team won international publicity, challenging long-held theories about AIDS and reporting new evidence about the way the AIDS virus works in the body. 
 However, Dr. Ho has been criticized for trumpeting findings that other scientists say later proved wrong. For instance, Dr. Ho and colleagues strongly suggested, without explicitly stating it as fact, that a treatment with drug cocktails could cure AIDS by eradicating the virus from a patient's blood. Since then, it has become clear that the virus lurks in hidden sanctuaries in the body, making it all but impossible to eradicate H.I.V. with currently licensed drugs.
 Critics have also charged that ViroLogic, the lab that did some of the testing for the Diamond Center and the Health Department in the most recent case, is using the case to promote its services. The Monday after Dr. Frieden's Friday news conference, ViroLogic issued a news release calling attention to its work performing the test for drug resistance. Dr. Ho, who was quoted in the release, serves on the scientific advisory board of ViroLogic. His brother, Sidney Ho, does marketing work for the company and once was the head of its communications department.
 William D. Young, the chairman and chief executive of ViroLogic, said there was no effort by Dr. Ho to promote ViroLogic through this case. He said the company's scientific advisers ''are very aware of their scientific reputations and that's paramount to them. At some times I prefer them to be promotional but they are not.'' Mr. Young said ViroLogic issued the news release to make the public aware of its role in the testing and its extensive nature. 
 Dr. Ho said that he has disclosed all of his ties to the company and that any suggestion of impropriety was false. 
 After Dr. Frieden disclosed the case, reports of similar cases quickly emerged, some of which had been published earlier. For example, Dr. Julio Montaner, a professor of medicine at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, reported in 2003 in the scientific journal AIDS that two men with a highly drug-resistant strain of H.I.V. might have progressed rapidly to AIDS. Dr. Ho did not contact Dr. Montaner about the case until three days after Dr. Frieden's news conference.
 Dr. Ho said he had searched standard databases for similar cases but did not find Dr. Montaner's report. After being made aware of the cases and looking into them, he said there were similarities but also significant differences. ''Our case was much more dramatic in the history of progression and resistance,'' Dr. Ho said.
 Dr. Ho, for his part, said, he was accustomed to criticism, but insisted, ''We did the right thing in this case.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); VIRUSES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (69%); METHAMPHETAMINE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



448 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Cabinet in Israel Ratifies Pullout From Gaza Strip
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel won cabinet approval for two sweeping plans intended to reshape Israel's relations with the Palestinians: the withdrawal of Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip, and a revamped route for the separation barrier in the West Bank. A1

New Marine Offensive in Iraq
The Marine division that led the Falluja assault three months ago said that it had started a major new offensive against insurgents in Ramadi. The Marine statement said that the aim was to ''locate, isolate and defeat'' insurgents intent on disrupting the new government after Iraq's recent elections. A10

Resignation Over U.N. Scandal
Ruud Lubbers resigned his post at the United Nations as high commissioner for refugees, denying charges of sexual harassment and complaining that his loyalty had been rewarded by injury and insult. A3

China Weary of Taiwan Dialogue
China accused Japan and the United States of meddling in its internal affairs, and criticized a new joint security statement in which the two countries declared a peaceful Taiwan Strait as among their ''common strategic objectives.'' A3

Bush Diplomacy in Europe
President Bush will declare that America supports a ''strong Europe'' in a speech in Brussels aimed at opening a new era in his relations across the Atlantic and at soothing the allies that opposed him on Iraq. A4

New Vote Setback for Schroder
Leaders of Germany's conservative opposition party claimed to have won a narrow victory in a regional election in Schleswig-Holstein. The result would demonstrate Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's difficulty in persuading voters that his reform plan can reverse economic stagnation. A6

Pressure on Togo's Leader
International pressure on Togo's new leader to step down increased as an African Union spokesman said the organization would vote to impose sanctions against the impoverished nation's government. A8

NATIONAL A11-16

More Taxpayers Face Losing Useful Deductions
The federal tax deductions that people receive for paying local and state taxes have quietly started to vanish for many households. The reason is a federal provision known as the alternative minimum tax. A1

Lobby Group Prepares Attacks
A conservative lobbying organization, USA Next, has hired some of the same consultants of last year's Swift boat veterans campaign to orchestrate spending more than $10 million to attack groups opposed to overhauling Social Security. A1

Mayor Faces Rough Re-election
The mayor of Los Angeles, James K. Hahn, appears vulnerable in his bid for a second four-year term. Several city departments have been accused of steering contracts to his campaign contributors. A11

U.S. to Review Wal-Mart Deal
The inspector general of the Labor Department has decided to investigate its agreement to give Wal-Mart Stores 15 days' notice before investigating any stores facing complaints of child labor violations, department officials said. A11

New Tool In Drug Fight
The optimism generated by the Navajo Nation Tribal Council's vote to criminalize the sale, possession and manufacture of methamphetamine on the reservation in Arizona may be tempered by a lack of jail space to handle the expected growth in arrests, authorities say. A11

Big Oil Cool on Alaska Drilling
The Bush administration and the oil industry are now far apart on whether to drill for oil in a small part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. The companies are skeptical about the potential there, but the White House is continuing to push the issue. A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Screenings Debated
An influential federal advisory group is expected to recommend that all newborn babies be screened for 29 medical conditions. The proposed screening is already generating fierce debate. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

More Africans Enter U.S. Than in Days of Slavery
For the first time, more blacks are coming to the United States from Africa than during the slave trade. New York State draws the most; Nigeria and Ghana are now among the top 20 sources of immigrants to New York City. A1

Debate Over AIDS Alarm
A week after New York City officials announced the discovery of a possibly new and deadly strain of H.I.V., the storm of reactions has not abated. Some scientists accused city officials of excessive haste. B1

High Notes at Jazz Auction
Among the highest-selling items at a jazz auction held in the Time Warner Center was was a King alto saxophone owned by Charlie Parker, which sold for $225,000. A notebook containing a book report on ''A Tale of Two Cities,'' written by a teenaged Thelonious Monk, sold for $60,000. B3

Prime-Time Gay Marriage
''The Simpsons'' took on the hot-button issue of gay marriage when Patty Bouvier, Marge Simpson's sister, announced that she was a lesbian and small-town Springfield legalized same-sex weddings in a bid to increase tourism. B2

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Olympic Bid Under Evaluation
The leaders of New York's 2012 Olympic bid will labor this week to impress the International Olympic Committee's evaluation commission, which will spend the next four days scouring the city and investigating the bid details. D1

ARTS E1-12

OBITUARIES A17

Hunter S. Thompson
Maverick journalist and author whose chronicling of the underbelly of American life and politics embodied a new countercultural form of non-fiction writing he was 67. A17

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Tough Adelphia Negotiator
Richard D. Parsons, the chief executive of Time Warner, is working to balance the concerns of his shareholders with the demands of William R. Huff as the company seeks to acquire Adelphia Communications. C1

F.C.C. Policy Challenged
An advocacy group is mounting a legal challenge to a new Federal Communications Commission regulation intended to prevent piracy of digitized broadcast. C1

Wal-Mart, the TV Network
The Wal-Mart TV Network, a Web network of in-store programming and the fifth-largest television network in the United States, features snippets of sports events, consumer product ads and corporate messages. C1

Video Games and Film Deals
The relationship between video game publishers and Hollywood has become unpredictable and at times unprofitable, as game makers weigh Hollywood licensing deals far more carefully. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The Americans are coming; ruffling Big Bird's feathers; Verlyn Klinkenborg on California real estate.

Column: Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Bridge E10
Crossword E8
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E11
Weather B6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LOBBYING (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (71%); REFUGEES (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (66%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%) SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); TOGO (92%); TAIWAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



449 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Life on the Beanstalk, or Real Estate in Southern California

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
We came over the mountains and down into Los Angeles a little more than a month ago. The heavy rains had subsided, and the hills were stationary again. Most of the roads and highways had reopened, though it was impossible, on certain routes, to get to San Juan Capistrano or Ojai or to drive up Topanga Canyon. 
 In Malibu, high above the Pacific Coast Highway, you see surprising sights even now. A land spill has nearly closed off a residential street and, beside it, steel buttresses hold back the rest of the slope. Here and there blue tarps have been thrown across hills to keep the slips from slipping further when the rains return. Up the coast, south of Santa Barbara, the earth is still settling over the edge of La Conchita, where 10 people died in a recent landslide. 
 I felt a sudden claustrophobia when we came over the mountains that first time, as if we had somehow left the mainland behind. I felt it again when we drove up Mount Baldy at night and looked out over the lights of the San Bernardino Valley.
 The passes leading out of this great basin are so few, the mountains steep and brittle. But most of that unease has worn off. This is the wrong season for fire, and the thought of earthquakes barely crossed my mind at our friend's house in Malibu -- just a few yards downhill from that bulging hillside in a neighborhood that burned to the ground in 1978. I think of earthquakes only when I'm idling under a freeway overpass, waiting for a light to change. I can feel the concrete slab rumbling overhead.
 But what never goes away is the dread of real estate. It's an utterly anomalous feeling. I meet perfectly pleasant people here -- people whose lives differ from mine in only the ordinary ways that lives do differ -- and yet they seem extraordinary to me because they are vested in California real estate. 
 I think of it as a fable of sorts. You wake up one morning and find that overnight a giant beanstalk has sprouted under your house and lifted it high off the ground. The next night it happens again, and soon you're in the clouds. The view would be terrifying -- the plain earth is so far out of sight -- except that all around you are other houses on other beanstalks. 
 It's an old story, and yet no one gets tired of telling it. Most of our friends here live in very modest houses -- 1,500 square feet and under. But they live in immodest places. It is literally nothing to come across, as we did, a laborer's cottage in Santa Barbara, built in the days when laborers could still afford to live in that town, appraised at nearly $1 million. 
 A friend in Brentwood notices that her sense of her house's worth is always a decade behind the times. I think this is a sober defense against an unsettling unreality. What can it mean when the houses on one block in La Jolla are worth more than all the real property in the western half of South Dakota? 
 I've been trying to decide whether this extraordinary escalation of property values produces hypermobility or immobility. The answer is probably both. One person trades upward as quickly as he can. Another stays put, in the depressing assurance that even if she sells her two-bedroom bungalow for $1.2 million, she can only afford to buy the place next door, which also has an old Thermador heater in the bathroom.
 One thing is certain. Without this enormous equity bubble, which seems to be floating California's economy, all the Hummer dealerships would go out of business. 
 In Los Angeles, time is equity. The money -- swelling like a zucchini in August -- changes everything. It brings a strange formality to the act of selling real estate, which here has become one of the theatrical professions. 
 There is always something august, almost sacramental about the transfer of real property. It is one of the grand rites of capitalism. Here that rite attains its highest pitch, though in ways that are unpredictable. All across town real estate agents peer down from their billboards the way personal injury lawyers peer down from the billboards of Albuquerque. The photographs are meant to impose trust, but what they really seem to be saying is, ''Have You Seen This Woman?'' A real estate agent and his clients stand in the drive of a house on San Vicente Boulevard. They look as though they've come for a wake. But they're not in the presence of death; they're in the presence of money. Not even present money. Future money. 
 In some way, I suspect, there is a symbiosis between these extraordinary inflating prices, which have a life of their own, and the potential for natural disaster. By any real logic, the threat of wildfires and the collapse of sodden hillsides whose vegetation has been scorched away, not to mention the possibility of the Big One, should somehow dampen the real estate market. 
 But what reminds people of the Big One every day is that it hasn't happened yet. As for those other disasters, hillsides wash away and houses burn, but equity is never really destroyed. Insurance takes care of that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); WEATHER (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



450 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: Case of Vanishing Deductions: Alternative Tax Called Culprit

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The valuable federal tax deductions that people receive for paying local and state taxes have quietly started to vanish for many households, raising the cost of living in places like New York, Massachusetts and California, already among the nation's most expensive.
 The culprit is a once-obscure federal tax provision known as the alternative minimum tax, which was created in 1969 to ensure that a relatively small number of wealthy people did not use loopholes to avoid paying taxes.
 But it is increasingly being applied to families with incomes of $75,000 to $250,000 a year who claim relatively high deductions -- like the ones for property taxes, state and local income taxes -- and the exemption for children. When it does apply, it cancels some of those deductions.
 The impact is about to mushroom. Barring a change in the law, almost 19 million taxpayers will be subject next year to the alternative minimum tax, or A.M.T., up from roughly 3.4 million this year and 1.3 million in 2000, according to the Tax Policy Center, a Washington research group whose calculations on this issue are widely accepted. 
 The shrinking of the deduction for local taxes for millions more families in the next few years has the potential to cool price increases in thriving real estate markets, particularly in the Northeast and on the West Coast.
 About half the people paying the alternative minimum tax in recent years live in one of four states -- California, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York -- accounting for almost a quarter of the nation's population.
 ''If you're just talking about a rank-and-file working couple, they're getting hit in these towns,'' said Timothy F. Allen, a tax preparer in Belmont, Mass., about many of the middle- to upper-middle-class two-income families he serves in the Boston suburbs. ''It grabbed me in 2004, and I was kind of surprised.''
 The A.M.T. effectively sets up a parallel tax system for all households, in which few deductions are allowed. Taxpayers whose alternative tax is higher than their regular federal income tax must pay the alternative one.
 The taxes that people pay to their local and state governments become a deduction in the standard federal system but not in the alternative one. The higher those deductions, the more likely a household is to fall into the A.M.T.
 A commission appointed by President Bush to make recommendations for overhauling the tax system met Wednesday in Washington for the first time, with a deadline of July 31 to issue a report, meaning there will not be a change before this year's deadline for filing 2004 taxes. 
 While many powerful members of Congress have called for a change, the administration's proposed budget did not offer one. Almost any plan to ease the tax without raising other taxes would cost the Treasury hundreds of billions of dollars in revenue over the next decade, worsening the federal budget deficit.
 Some tax experts say the relative simplicity of the A.M.T. offers a good model for tax reform. The problem, people of almost all political viewpoints say, is the combination of the A.M.T. and the regular federal income tax. 
 ''It makes the system completely opaque,'' said Pamela F. Olson, an assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy in Mr. Bush's first term and now a partner at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. ''People have no idea what their taxes are going to be, and it takes back things we put in the code.''
 The interplay between local taxes and the A.M.T. has in effect become a face-off between two forces that many economists consider unsustainable: the rising federal budget deficit and the continuing leaps in home prices. Left unchanged, the alternative tax would produce more revenue by 2009 than the ordinary federal income tax, according to the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute.
 ''It's an enormous issue,'' said Connie Mack, a former Republican senator from Florida who heads the commission Mr. Bush appointed to study tax reform, ''and one we're clearly going to take a look at.''
 If the tax remains, living in many localities will become more expensive, potentially curtailing the growth in home values that has been a major boon to the economy recently. It could also create pressure to cut property taxes, the major source of public education funding in many communities.
 Without a change in the A.M.T., 30 million taxpayers are likely to face it five years from now, many of them concentrated in high-tax states.
 ''Taxes do affect the market,'' said Raymond G. Russolillo, who oversees tax-consulting services at U.S. Trust in New York. ''I suspect it will affect behavior at some point.''
 Michael Levin, 52, is an anesthesiologist in Manhattan, married, with a daughter in high school and a son in college. He does not use tax shelters or take big deductions from investments, he said. But his income, while not outsize by New York standards, is relatively high and he owns a condominium in the West Village section of Manhattan. As a result, he fell into the A.M.T. last year, costing him almost $5,000 in additional taxes.
 ''When I first heard about it,'' Dr. Levin said, ''my understanding was that the concept was to prevent fat cats from not paying any taxes. Well, that's fair. Everybody should pay something. But it's killing the middle class as well.''
 The alternative minimum tax began in 1969, after Joseph W. Barr, the departing Treasury secretary under President Lyndon B. Johnson, told Congress that 155 wealthy families had used loopholes to avoid paying any federal income tax in 1967. Mr. Barr warned of the possibility of a middle-class taxpayer revolt in response.
 Congress, deluged with letters, created the tax soon after, and President Richard M. Nixon signed it into law. When Congress overhauled the tax code in 1986, it changed the provision so that it no longer offered tax breaks for local taxes, among other things.
 Today, it exempts a standard amount of income -- as much as $58,000 for a married couple this year -- and allows further deductions for mortgage interest and contributions to charity. It then taxes nearly all other income at a flat rate of at least 26 percent.
 Though the calculation usually remains hidden, tax-preparation software figures out both the regular income tax and the alternative one for all households, and they must pay whichever is higher. The surcharge for the tax appears on a single line -- Line 43 -- of the Form 1040.
 The triggers for the alternative tax have not kept up with inflation, causing it to capture many people whose main deductions come from nothing more exotic than children and local taxes. People in towns with high property taxes sometimes face the A.M.T., while others with similar incomes in the next town do not.
 The average property tax in Belmont, Mass., for example, will exceed $7,500 this year. In Arlington, the next town north, the average is $4,500.
 In parts of Fairfield County, Conn., homeowners pay $10,000, said Alan J. Clavette, an accountant there. In Montclair, N.J. -- a town with many New York commuters, in the state with the highest per-capita property taxes in the nation -- the typical bill is about $12,000.
 Over all, people from Connecticut, New York and New Jersey have the highest average deductions for local taxes, which are mainly property taxes and state and local income taxes, according to the Internal Revenue Service. Local taxes have risen in recent years, as both property values and local tax rates have increased.
 Consider a married couple with three children, living in Massachusetts and making $100,000 a year. With a typical-size home equity loan and $9,000 in property taxes, the couple would face an A.M.T. surcharge of almost $700, increasing their federal tax bill to nearly $11,000, from $10,300, according to Ernst & Young. A similar couple paying significantly less in property taxes would not fall under the alternative tax.
 The tax falls hardest on states that are overwhelmingly Democratic, including Connecticut, Maryland and Oregon. Some Dermocrats say the uneven effect is one reason that the provision has not yet been changed.
 ''The Republican majority may not be acting on it because they see it as a red state-blue state issue,'' Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a New York Democrat, said. ''But it is really a middle-class issue, and the middle class is everywhere.'' 
 Republicans said that Congress, under their leadership, had created temporary fixes -- including one for 2005 -- that reduced the number of people subject to the extra tax. They said they expected to devise a long-term solution by overhauling the tax code in the next two years.
 The A.M.T. is just one of many factors influencing the housing market; the effect of mortgage rates and the ups and downs of the economy certainly outweigh it in importance. But specialists foresee taxes becoming a more prominent factor in real estate markets as the alternative tax affects many more homeowners. 
 ''It's not until people sit in front of their Quicken program and find out that in fact some of their deductions have been in a sense disallowed that they might come to understand this issue,'' said Eric S. Belsky, executive director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University. ''As it does affect more and more people, there is an argument that it will have some influence on people's willingness to take on mortgage debt and pay property taxes.''
 Many of the families who have already been hit by the A.M.T. make enough money that its cost is not a hardship. Barring a change, though, the tax will cover more than half of all households with incomes of $75,000 to $100,000 five years from now, the Tax Policy Center forecasts. Nearly all families who have children and make more than $100,000 would fall into it. Many would lose some or all the tax cuts they have received since President Bush took office.
 Of course, many also live in houses that are worth much more than they were a few years ago. Someone who sold a home and moved to a less expensive one would easily make up for any additional taxes they had paid as a result of the alternative minimum tax.
 But extracting the value from a home is not easy. To make a significant gain, a homeowner often must move to a much cheaper region or a far smaller house.
 Carlo and Chris Marano bought their home in Danbury, Conn., for $265,000 in 1992. After its value had more than doubled, they put it up for sale a year ago and looked into moving. Their three children are grown, Ms. Marano said, and ''we have significant space we don't need.'' 
 But the Maranos -- he is self-employed, helping design employee benefit plans, and she works for an accounting firm -- could not find any house around Danbury that they wanted and that was inexpensive enough to make a move seem worthwhile. 
 So they stayed put, and they paid the A.M.T.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Levin, a physician in New York, had to pay almost $5,000 more in federal taxes last year. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Chart: ''Falling Into the Alternative Minimum Tax''The alternative minimum tax sets a floor based on a family's income, effectively canceling most deductions that normally help reduce federal taxes.EXAMPLE: A Massachusetts family with three childrenHousehold incomeREGULAR CALCULATION: $100,000ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX: $100,000Normally, taxpayers use a wide range of deductions to reduce taxable income.Personal exemption for five-person householdREGULAR CALCULATION: -16,000DeductionsHOME-EQUITY LOAN DEDUCTIONREGULAR CALCULATION: -2,000STATE INCOME TAXREGULAR CALCULATION: -5,300PROPERTY TAXREGULAR CALCULATION: -9,000The A.M.T. allows only one exemption, eliminating federal tax benefits from local property and state income taxes.A.M.T. exemptionALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX: -58,000*Taxable incomeREGULAR CALCULATION: $67,700ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX: $42,000The A.M.T. taxes income at a higher, flat rate. Families must pay the higher of the A.M.T. or the normal tax.Effective tax rateREGULAR CALCULATION: 15.1%ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX: 26.0%Federal income taxREGULAR CALCULATION: 10,255ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX: 10,920This can increase a family's tax bill.Total state and federal tax billREGULAR CALCULATION: $ 24,555ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX: $ 25,220*$58,000 is the exemption for married couples up to $150,000 in household income
 thereafter the exemption is phased out.Charitable contributions and mortgage interest deductions were omitted from the above examples because they reduce taxable income whether the A.M.T. is used or not.(Source by Ernst & Young)(pg. A15)Chart: ''Who Is Most Affected''The alternative minimum tax affects people living in states with higher income and property taxes.AVERAGE TAXES PER ITEMIZED RETURNNew York -- $11,098Connecticut -- 10,424New Jersey -- 10,003District of Columbia -- 9,234California -- 8,884Massachusetts -- 8,655Rhode Island -- 8,259Maryland -- 7,944Wisconsin -- 7,692Maine -- 7,301PROPERTYNew Jersey: $5,582New York -- 4,597Connecticut -- 4,429New Hampshire -- 4,417Texas -- 4,088Illinois -- 3,781Massachusetts -- 3,476Vermont -- 3,447Rhode Island -- 3,443Wisconsin -- 3,371(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TAX REFORM (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (62%); SUBURBS (62%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



451 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: African Nations to Step Up Pressure on New Togo Ruler

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: LOME, Togo, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
International pressure on this tiny, impoverished nation's new leader to step down increased Sunday as an African Union spokesman said the organization would vote shortly to impose sanctions against Togo's government. 
 Such penalties would clear the way for wider sanctions from the United Nations and the European Union, and add tougher measures, including seizure of assets from top Togolese officials, to the travel ban and other penalties already imposed by Ecowas, the Economic Community of West African States. 
 The new threat of wider sanctions was the latest effort to resolve the crisis in Togo, which began after Gnassingbe Eyadema, the country's longtime ruler, died on Feb. 5, and the military installed his son Faure Gnassingbe in his place. On Thursday, under considerable international pressure, Mr. Gnassingbe said he would hold an election for president in 60 days, but he refused to step down in the interim. The concession to allow a vote was immediately declared inadequate by opposition parties here and critics abroad. 
 ''They are clearly not willing to go,'' said Adam Thiam, a spokesman for the African Union Commission, the agency responsible for the union's day-to-day management. ''If they go it will be out of international pressure. They will be forced.''
 The United States also called upon Mr. Gnassingbe to step down, saying in a statement released by the State Department that it ''does not accept as legitimate the designation of Gnassingbe as interim president and calls on him to step aside immediately.''
 Togo, a former French colony on the Gulf of Guinea in West Africa, has become increasingly isolated in the two weeks of political turmoil since Mr. Eyadema died, of a heart attack, after 38 years of authoritarian rule. Despite a constitutional line of succession that required that the speaker of Parliament become president and that elections be held in 60 days, the military put Mr. Gnassingbe, 39, in place, and the Parliament hastily amended the Constitution to allow him to finish his father's term. African leaders, who for decades tolerated coups and dictatorships among their neighbors, this time strongly objected, issuing swift condemnations and sending top diplomats to try to persuade Togo's government to return to constitutional rule. 
 Those efforts have failed so far. Talks in Niger went nowhere, and a high-level delegation from Ecowas extracted no public concessions. On Thursday, Mr. Gnassingbe flew to the Nigerian capital, Abuja, to meet with President Olusegun Obasanjo, one of the most vociferous critics of his installation, but it was unclear what, if anything, the meeting yielded.
 One senior Western diplomat here said those talks had come to nothing, despite the clear threat of sanctions from the West African economic group. ''It fell on deaf ears,'' the diplomat said. ''It was made clear to them what Ecowas intended to do, and they sensed they could perhaps string it out. Clearly Ecowas is having none of it, and it really is just an unprecedented reaction.''
 People briefed on the negotiations regarding Mr. Gnassinbe said it had appeared that he had decided to step down at several points, especially after he met with Mr. Obasanjo. 
 ''We don't know what happened,'' Mr. Thiam said. ''We are under the impression that he could have made a decision to step down, but when he came back to Lome, it changed.''
 That change has led some to speculate that Mr. Gnassingbe is merely a puppet of his father's allies; the military is dominated by his father's Kabiye tribe.
 But others point out that his father had clearly been grooming him as a successor for some time, and a few years ago even had the Constitution altered to lower the minimum age for a president to 35 from 40. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); DEATHS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (91%); ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) TOGO (99%); WESTERN AFRICA (96%); AFRICA (94%); NIGERIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NIGER (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



452 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 897 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Ben Sisario

 BODY:

Writers' Film Awards
 ''Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind'' and ''Sideways'' were winners at the 57th annual Writers Guild Awards on Saturday, held simultaneously in Los Angeles and New York. ''Eternal Sunshine,'' written by Charlie Kaufman, based on a story by Mr. Kaufman, the director Michel Gondry and Pierre Bismuth, won for best original screenplay. ''Sideways,'' right, written by Alexander Payne and Jim Taylor from the novel by Rex Pickett, won best adapted screenplay. Both films are up for awards in the same categories at the Oscars. For television, an episode of ''The West Wing'' won for episodic drama; Tony Kushner won best long-form adapted screenplay for ''Angels in America''; ''Arrested Development'' and ''Malcolm in the Middle'' won for comedy; and an episode of ''The Simpsons'' won for animated series. 

'Vagina Monologues' Banned in Uganda
 The Ugandan government banned a performance of ''The Vagina Monologues'' planned by women's groups for Feb. 19 on the grounds that the play was offensive to traditional values. Officials had earlier said that while they disapproved of the play they would not ban it, but late last week the state information minister, James Nsaba Buturo, called for the prohibition, saying the work did not focus on sexual violence, as women's rights advocates had said, but rather on women's private parts, The Associated Press reported. ''This is the stuff that homosexuals and pornography promoters feed on,'' Mr. Buturo said in a statement. Activists said a goal of the production had been achieved anyway. ''Our major issue was to raise concerns about the rights of women, their suffering on the domestic and other fronts,'' Sarah Mukasa said. ''Although the play has been banned, our point has been made.''

'Producers' Takes London Theater Awards
 ''The Producers'' won big at the Laurence Olivier Awards for British theater, announced last night in London. The show, which opened in the West End in October, was nominated for eight awards and won three: best new musical, best actor in a musical (Nathan Lane, below, who was a last-minute substitute on opening night, filling in for an ailing Richard Dreyfuss) and best supporting actor in a musical (Conleth Hill). Alan Bennett's acclaimed show ''The History Boys'' won three awards, too: best new play, best director (Nicholas Hytner) and best actor (Richard Griffiths). Mr. Bennett also received a special award for his contributions to British theater. The hit production of ''Mary Poppins'' had nine nominations and won two awards, for best actress in a musical (Laura Michelle Kelly) and for best theater choreographer (Matthew Bourne and Stephen Mear).

Alliance for Arts Funds
 Two big nonprofits, Americans for the Arts in Washington and the Arts and Business Council in New York, will merge their operations, forming the largest arts advocacy group in the country, the organizations announced. The combined agencies will promote the arts and obtain arts financing from the private sector. By combining, the groups say they will raise more money, a necessary goal since the total philanthropy devoted to nonprofit arts groups has declined by nearly a third since 1990, the groups say.

Pop CD's in Release
 New pop albums to be released tomorrow include a number of comebacks and indie-rock favorites. Tori Amos will release ''The Beekeeper'' (Sony), her first new album in three years (Critic's Choice, Page 3). ''Aha Shake Heartbreak'' (RCA), the much anticipated new album by Kings of Leon, the Southern rock newcomers who have recently been announced as the opening act for U2's new world tour, will come out in the United States after becoming a minor hit in Britain. Omarion, of the pop vocal hitmakers B2K, releases ''O'' (Sony). Ian Brown, of the 1980's British art-rock sensation the Stone Roses, has a solo album, ''Solarized'' (Koch). Petra Haden, of the 1990's alt-rock band That Dog, releases ''Petra Haden Sings: The Who Sell Out'' (Bar/None), an a cappella remake of the Who's classic 1967 album ''The Who Sell Out.'' The singer Ben Lee releases ''Awake Is the New Sleep'' (New West), and Iron and Wine, the hit indie-folk act, has a new EP, ''Woman King'' (Sub Pop). 

Bailout for Edinburgh
 The struggling Edinburgh International Festival has been given the $1.1 million bailout it needed to present its program this year. Half the money was given by the EventScotland agency and the other half comes from the Edinburgh city council, The Scotsman newspaper reported. The three-week festival usually sells about 400,000 tickets a year and attracts an estimated $35 million in spending to the city, but its financing has not kept up with inflation, organizers have said. 

Memorial to Drummer
 The Doobie Brothers said they would donate proceeds from their Doobie Red Wine to the National Veterans Foundation for the next five years in memory of the band's drummer, Keith Knudsen, who died on Feb. 8 of pneumonia, The Associated Press reported. Knudsen, who was 56, played with the band on a string of hits, including ''Black Water'' and ''Taking It to the Streets'' and is credited with pushing the group to re-form in 1987. ''The National Veterans Foundation and founder Shad Meshad were very close to Keith, the band and me,'' said the band's manager, Bruce Cohn, in a statement last week. Doobie Red is produced by Mr. Cohn's B.R. Cohn Winery in Glen Ellen, Calif. 


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); WOMEN (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ANIMATION (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); MUSICAL THEATER (66%); PORNOGRAPHY (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); THEATER (58%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures ; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: Writers Guild of America

PERSON: Ben Sisario

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



453 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Home From the War, Yet the Battle Is Just Beginning

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:

'The Bonus Army'
'An American Epic'
By Paul Dickson and Thomas B. Allen.
Illustrated. 370 pages. Walker & Company. $27.
 Paul Dickson and Thomas B. Allen began their prodigious research project on the Bonus Army of 1930's America with a nagging question: ''How could this all be forgotten?'' Certainly the events the authors sought to describe were well known in their day. These were the repeated marches on Washington by aging World War I veterans who had been promised federal funds in recognition of their wartime sacrifice. These veterans came home as heroes only to discover, in the words of one historian, that ''the Keys to the City had turned out only to be a pass to the flophouse.'' In 1924, the returning soldiers had been promised government recompense for the time they had spent overseas. By the early 1930's, with the nation in the throes of the Great Depression, this issue took on added urgency. There were veterans who had given up their main sources of income in order to enlist. They came back jobless, unable to pay their taxes and in danger of losing their homes. 
 The government promised to make good on these payments but not until 1945, on the grounds that it would be too fiscally draining to pay them off any sooner. But large corporations and war profiteers had been reimbursed much more quickly. So the money owed to the soldiers took on the nickname of Tombstone Bonus, since the easiest way to collect these payments was to die. ''This country is not broke,'' insisted Will Rogers. ''If we owed it to some Foreign Nation you would talk about honor and then pay it.'' ''The Bonus Army'' tells how these frustrated veterans decided to force the federal government's hand. They decided, beginning in 1932, that their presence in the nation's capital would help to further their cause. Bearing signs like the one that read ''We Done a Good Job in France, Now You Do a Good Job in America,'' they traveled cross-country to make their case. They would wind up in impromptu Washington shantytowns, including one only half a mile away from the White House. 
 ''Out of here by Thursday?'' one veteran asked incredulously, when told that the marchers might be routed by a military contingent that would include Douglas A. MacArthur, George S. Patton and Dwight D. Eisenhower. ''Huh! Kaiser Wilhelm didn't do it in 18 months.'' The authors of ''The Bonus Army,'' a revealing and bleakly fascinating account of these events, ascribe several explanations to the relative obscurity of the veterans' crusade. The first is racial: the Bonus marchers were an embarrassingly well-integrated group in the midst of a Washington that remained a segregated city. Second, the marchers were easily dismissed as Communists, though their leaders knew they must diligently avoid Communist rhetoric and infiltration. Finally, this movement was of no benefit to politicians of any stripe. The book explains why the bonus idea was an albatross for both Republican and Democratic presidents, in ways that crossed party lines and created frustration on all sides. 
 Liberal Democrats might have been expected to champion the veterans' cause. But they resisted paying bonuses on the theory that generalized unemployment benefits were more urgent. And although Presidents Herbert Hoover and Calvin Coolidge (''Patriotism which is bought and paid for is not patriotism'') had been loftily opposed to the high price of veterans' bonuses, Franklin Delano Roosevelt was no more helpful. ''The veteran who is disabled owes his condition to the war,'' Roosevelt said, as he vetoed a bonus bill. ''The healthy veteran who is unemployed owes his troubles to the Depression.'' 
 In addition to its analysis of these political realities, the book's most haunting aspect is its verbal and pictorial record of the marchers' individual experiences. It illustrates what their journeys were like: hitching rides on freight trains until the railroad companies balked, then being ferried from one state line to the next by State Highway Department trucks. Workers tended to be more willing than their bosses to help the Bonus Army proceed along its way.
 And the book includes striking images of the vast shantytowns that sprung up to house the marchers. One such Hooverville was only half a mile from the White House. These settlements were built of cardboard, egg crates, wrecked cars and bedsprings yet maintained with an almost military sense of order. Tourists and photographers captured amazing images, yet newsreel crews steered clear of the camps' scenes of peace, order and cooperation. They waited, hoping for outbreaks of violence instead. 
 Some predictions of disaster were exaggerated. (There were no outbreaks of disease because the veterans had been inoculated for their military service.) But eventually, they proved prophetic. Despite the impressive peacekeeping efforts of Pelham D. Glassford, Washington's chief of police, the combined trigger-happy instincts of J. Edgar Hoover at the F.B.I. and the Army chief of staff, General MacArthur, prevailed. Tear gas and a cavalry charge drove the Bonus Army away from Washington, and the hovels were torched, despite orders not to allow American flags to be burned. The Bonus Army's quarters were full of them.
 The book's final chapters are its saddest, with veterans brushed out of sight and sent to federal rehabilitation camps in the South. In Florida, in events described powerfully by Ernest Hemingway, their encampment on Matecumbe Key was devastated by a hurricane and storm surge, and many of them died. The veterans were left to weather this, yet there had been sufficient warning for the highway department to move Matecumbe's costly road-building machinery to safety.
 For all the defeats that the Bonus Army endured, its struggle paved the way for the G.I. Bill of Rights. And it underscored the power that could be unleashed by the marcher who made himself ''a petition in boots.'' Its legacy was of great importance to the World War II veterans whose homecomings were a far cry from the hardships and indignities of the 1930's. That legacy is all the more meaningful today.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The authors Paul Dickson, left, and Thomas B. Allen. (Photo by Walker Books) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); VETERANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WRITERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); HISTORY (72%); LITERATURE (71%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: WALKER & CO (WINTER PARK, FLORIDA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (91%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (91%)

PERSON: Janet Maslin; Paul Dickson; Thomas B Allen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



454 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Different Ways To Season Raw Talent

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
THEY come in many shapes and sizes from around this very large basketball-shaped globe, and some still make it to the N.B.A.'s ultimate playground the old-school way, from the American college campus. More than a game, last night's All-Star show was a testament to diversity, of cultures and choice.
 Grant Hill and Tim Duncan walked the cobblestone-paved and increasingly less-traveled path to the pros, after four years of college, Hill at Duke and Duncan at Wake Forest. Vince Carter took the early-entry route, although he returned to North Carolina to get his degree. 
 Yao Ming negotiated his way out of the Chinese Communist bureaucracy, while the German Dirk Nowitzki turned pro, as many Europeans do, before he was old enough to vote.
 Everybody here had a story to tell, and that includes the preps-to-pros lightning rods, from Kevin Garnett to Kobe Bryant, Jermaine O'Neal to LeBron James.
 ''You do the numbers and decide if the N.B.A. is worse off for having the high school players,'' O'Neal said before the Eastern Conference's 125-115 victory over the West, a game in which James announced himself early with a one-handed slam, set up by the game's most valuable player, Allen Iverson, on a fast break. And the so-called young gunners acted and played as if they had been here before. 
 Four players with no college credits were in the starting lineups, 7 on the combined rosters and 11 in all, if you count foreign players who never swam in the N.C.A.A. cesspool. As O'Neal, the Indiana Pacers' power forward, was saying, the quasi breakdown of the scratch-my-back college developmental system that provided a free and heavily marketed minor league for the N.B.A. isn't putting anyone out of business.
 Better yet, it has created more options, raised important questions for these young men to ponder. ''Does college make you better prepared to deal with the N.B.A., or does the N.B.A. make you better prepared with the N.B.A.?'' O'Neal said. 
 He knows what has worked for him, and most recently for James and Amare Stoudemire. He knows that their teams are not complaining and that no one is being forced at gunpoint to draft young.
 ''You don't want to draft a high school player, don't draft him,'' O'Neal reasoned, in full disagreement with Commissioner David Stern, who says he wants a 20-year-old minimum age, in accordance with his preferred business model. 
 In a sports culture that last year celebrated a 14-year-old pro soccer player, at least Stern doesn't try to convince people that this has less to do with higher education than it does with public perception and the resulting stereotypes that affect the bottom line. 
 ''Everything is an economic issue,'' Stern said. ''Because it affects our business, in terms of our responsibility, the way we are viewed, the players' maturity and how they deal with the community.''
 From the other side of the negotiating table, Billy Hunter, the executive director of the players union, sees a racial subtext to the never-ending scrutiny of basketball's gifted and talented that shouldn't necessarily be appeased. ''I'm always mindful of the fact that the N.B.A. is perceived as a black product,'' he said. ''And so I have to be sensitive to that.''
 Stern and Hunter are putting the happiest face they can on the league's pending collective bargaining negotiations, not a bad idea as the tears of North American hockey fans melt sheets of ice from Florida to Edmonton. Hunter said he hadn't forgotten the $500 million his players lost during the 1998-99 lockout. 
 ''We've been down this road before,'' he said.
 N.B.A. players have already conceded on capping salaries and on other cost certainty givebacks that the hockey principals used to high stick each other senseless. And guess what? Average salaries are still making multimillionaires of the majority. Nobody is starving. This time around, Stern and Hunter do not appear to be posturing across a great ideological divide, with the possible exception of the age-limit issue, about which Stern admits, ''I'm kind of out there alone on that one.''
 The bottom line, for lack of a better way to put it, is that Stern and Hunter are both right, and wrong. In its long and litigious struggle to bar underclassmen who haven't completed their junior seasons, the N.F.L. at least had the plausible excuse that underdeveloped bodies are at risk in a brutal game. In the N.B.A., James and Stoudemire are two examples of teenagers who physically held their own from Day 1.
 Conversely, Hunter should remember that a rookie out of high school like Atlanta's Josh Smith may win the slam-dunk contest, but thriving in the N.B.A. requires using one's head, as soccer-savvy Steve Nash did Saturday night in assisting Stoudemire, his high-flying Phoenix teammate, in the same competition. 
 ''A lot of young kids can't deal with the mental aspect of the N.B.A.,'' said O'Neal, a former four-year bench warmer in Portland. That is why Hunter, after holding firm against the 20-year-old age limit, should agree to allow teams to farm the not-ready-for-prime-time teenagers to the league's developmental vehicle, so the jobs of more marginal veterans can be spared. 
 College coaches and their familiar mouthpieces will scream louder than Dick Vitale, but too bad, they should be grateful to be spared the humiliation of groveling on living room carpets nationwide for the privilege of coaching Mr. Basketball for a year. Not everyone is LeBron James, but not everyone is cut out for college, either. In a sport as far-ranging as this one, one size or age limit doesn't fit all, and isn't at all fair.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Magic's Grant Hill, in his first All-Star Game in five years, scored 6 points and pulled down 3 rebounds to help the East defeat the West. (Photo by John Gress/Reuters)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); SOCCER (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (66%) Basketball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Age, Chronological; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (59%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (78%); KOBE BRYANT (58%); KEVIN GARNETT (58%) Harvey Araton

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



455 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Art; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By Adriana Lins de Albuquerque, Michael O'Hanlon and Amy Unikewicz. 
Adriana Lins de Albuquerque and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, a research analyst and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
HAVING completed its first democratic election, Iraq is teeming not just with traffic and street bazaars, but with political energy as well. And the professed willingness of some Sunni Arab leaders to help write the new constitution may compensate for the very low Sunni voter turnout in last month's election -- thereby defusing anger among that minority group and reducing the likelihood of further growth in the insurgency. 
 Iraq remains, however, a country with high unemployment, mediocre public services and some of the highest crime rates in the world (probably worse than the late Saddam Hussein years). The insurgency was weakened, but only somewhat, by the battle of Falluja in November and the elections. So far this month, levels of insurgent activity -- measured in attacks per day, casualties of Iraqi civilians, security personnel and coalition troops, and similar indicators -- have declined 20 percent to 50 percent from peak levels last fall. But the rates are, in general, still higher than they were in 2003 or the early months of 2004, despite the fact that coalition forces have been arresting or killing about 2,000 enemy fighters a month. 
 Iraqis remain divided in their views toward the United States. Many are grateful that the American-led coalition overthrew Saddam Hussein but resentful about much that has happened since. (The latest figures in the chart below are for January, and thus do not reflect public reaction to the Jan. 30 election.) While there is no overwhelming pressure for an immediate withdrawal of coalition forces from the public or major political leaders, surveys suggest that the Iraqis are eager to begin discussing a responsible exit strategy.


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); CRIME RATES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



456 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Socialist Builds Big Lead in Portugal Election, Voter Surveys Show

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: MADRID, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
Portuguese voters appeared Sunday to be choosing the Socialist candidate, Jose Socrates, to become the country's fourth prime minister in three years.
 Surveys of voters after they cast their ballots indicated that the center-left Socialists would win 45 percent of the vote, followed by the 29 percent for the center right Social Democrats, led by the acting prime minister, Pedro Santana Lopes, Radio Television Portugal reported. 
 The figures suggested that the Socialists stood a strong chance of winning an absolute majority in Parliament, meaning the party could govern alone without having to form alliances with other groups. 
 An absolute majority, which no party has obtained since 1991, would represent a significant step toward stabilizing Portugal's democracy, which has been plagued by years of volatility, experts say.
 Over the past five years, governments have risen and fallen with alarming rapidity, leading many Portuguese to fear that the country is returning to the political instability that marked the nation's first decade of democracy, before it entered the European Union in 1986, said Pedro Magalhaes, a political scientist at the Institute of Social Sciences at the University of Lisbon. 
 The political situation may have reached a low point during the tenure of Mr. Santana Lopes, when ministers contradicted one another regularly, sometimes daily, and one of them resigned four days after starting work. 
 ''The government presented an image of total incoherence and lack of organization,'' Mr. Magalhaes said. 
 Mr. Santana Lopes lasted only four months before President Jorge Sampaio decided on Nov. 30 to dissolve Parliament and call early elections after a tide of complaints from business leaders, politicians, academics and editorial writers who contended that the government was foundering under increasingly chaotic leadership.
 Portugal, with about 10 million people, was one of Europe's brightest success stories in the late 1990's. Its economic growth regularly outpaced the European average, and continuity in the political leadership provided a measure of predictability after years of volatility. 
 Since then, the economy has suffered a recession, unemployment has risen and the budget deficit has ballooned. Before the European Union expanded last year, Portugal was the poorest member state.
 In his campaign to convince voters that he could get Portugal moving forward again, Mr. Socrates focused more on his leadership qualities than on his policies. In fact, it can be difficult to distinguish his policy positions from those of his predecessor, particularly in international affairs, where the two share a commitment to further integration into the European Union and to strong ties with the United States.
 Domestically, the differences are starker, but not much so. The economic platform laid out by Mr. Socrates differs little from the fiscal conservatism of his opponent, including a proposal to trim the government's huge work force and a declaration that tax cuts are out of the question during a time of economic stagnation and budget deficits.
 ''The Socialists are very pragmatic,'' Mr. Magalhaes said. ''They are likely to govern from the center.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); BUDGETS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); TAX LAW (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); WRITERS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: JOSE SOCRATES (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



457 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Expected to Express Support for a 'Strong Europe' Today

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush will declare that America supports a ''strong Europe'' in a major speech here on Monday aimed at opening a new era in his relations across the Atlantic and at soothing the allies that opposed him on Iraq.
 Mr. Bush's words are to make clear that the United States welcomes the drive toward European unity and views the 25-member European Union, with an economy roughly equal to that of the United States, as a partner, not a rival.
 ''The alliance of Europe and North America is the main pillar of our security in a new century,'' Mr. Bush is expected to say at Concert Noble, a 19th-century hall, according to advance excerpts from his text. ''Our robust trade is one of the engines of the world economy. Our example of economic and political freedom gives hope to millions who are weary of poverty and oppression.'' 
 Mr. Bush is also expected to say that, ''In all these ways, our strong friendship is essential to peace and prosperity across the globe -- and no temporary debate, no passing disagreement of governments, no power on earth will ever divide us.''
 Mr. Bush arrived in Brussels on Sunday evening and immediately went by motorcade to the 18th-century home of Tom C. Korologos, the American ambassador to Belgium. 
 Earlier in the day, about 1,000 people protested the Iraq war and American environmental policies outside the Brussels Bourse, where a banner placed across the entrance proclaimed, ''President Bush, the world holds you accountable.'' 
 An alliance of environmental, human rights and peace groups plan additional protests in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday.
 In his speech, Mr. Bush is expected to call for a ''new era of trans-Atlantic unity'' and to say that together the United States and Europe can work toward ''our greatest opportunity and our immediate goal'' of peace in the Middle East.
 ''We seek peace between Israel and Palestine for its own sake,'' Mr. Bush is expected to say.
 He is also expected say that Europe and the United States must work together in rebuilding Iraq. ''Now is the time for established democracies to give tangible political, economic and security assistance to the world's newest democracy,'' the excerpts say.
 Senior members of the Bush administration have recently spoken out in favor of a strong Europe. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice heartened Europeans when she said in a speech in Paris on Feb. 8 that ''the United States, above all, welcomes the growing unity of Europe.'' Mr. Bush's speech will be the first time he has supported the idea with such force. 
 His words are likely to quell dissent from some American conservatives who say that a unified Europe is not necessarily in America's interests because the Continent will see itself as a counterforce to the United States.
 Mr. Bush's speech underscores his decision to spend a full two days and three nights in the heart of the new Europe, Brussels, which is the headquarters of NATO, the European Union and the European Commission, the union's executive body. Significantly, Mr. Bush will spend much of Tuesday visiting all three. 
 He gave some insight into his own thinking behind a unified Europe in an interview with European newspapers at the White House on Friday, when he was asked what he thought of the European Constitution. Mr. Bush said he would not comment, but added that, ''Every time I meet with the European leaders, I ask them how it's going because I'm fascinated by the political integration and, is it possible.''
 Mr. Bush had no public events scheduled in Brussels on Sunday evening. On Monday morning he is to pay a courtesy call on King Albert II and Queen Paola of Belgium and then meet with the Belgian prime minister, Guy Verhofstadt.
 Mr. Bush will also meet with the NATO secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. In the evening, he will give a dinner at the home of Mr. Korologos for President Jacques Chirac of France and is expected to try to mend relations after his anger over Mr. Chirac's opposition to the American-led invasion of Iraq.
 ''I don't feel bitter, personally,'' Mr. Bush told the European newspaper writers on Friday. ''And so it's easy to have a conversation with somebody to overcome bitterness if you don't feel bitter.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); BELGIUM (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



458 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Big Oil Steps Aside in Battle Over Arctic

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20 

 BODY:
George W. Bush first proposed drilling for oil in a small part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska in 2000, after oil industry experts helped his presidential campaign develop an energy plan. Five years later, he is pushing the proposal again, saying the nation urgently needs to increase domestic production.
 But if Mr. Bush's drilling plan passes in Congress after what is expected to be a fierce fight, it may prove to be a triumph of politics over geology.
 Once allied, the administration and the oil industry are now far apart on the issue. The major oil companies are largely uninterested in drilling in the refuge, skeptical about the potential there. Even the plan's most optimistic backers agree that any oil from the refuge would meet only a tiny fraction of America's needs. 
 While Democrats have repeatedly blocked the drilling plan, many legislators believe it has its best chance of passage this year, because of a Republican-led White House and Congress and tighter energy supplies. Though the oil industry is on the sidelines, the president still has plenty of allies. The Alaska Congressional delegation is eager for the revenue and jobs drilling could provide. Other legislators favor exploring the refuge because more promising prospects, like drilling off the coasts of Florida or California, are not politically palatable. And many Republicans hope to claim opening the refuge to exploration as a victory in the long-running conflict between development interests and environmentalists.
 The refuge is a symbol of that larger debate, said Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who is a major supporter of drilling. Opponents agree. ''This is the No. 1 environmental battle of the decade,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 Whether that battle will be worthwhile, though, is not clear. Neither advocates nor critics can answer a crucial question: how much oil lies beneath the wilderness where the administration wants to permit drilling?
 Advocates cite a 1998 government study that estimated the part of the refuge proposed for drilling might hold 10 billion barrels of oil. But only one test well has been drilled, in the 1980's, and its results are one of the industry's most closely guarded secrets.
 A Bush adviser says the major oil companies have a dimmer view of the refuge's prospects than the administration does. ''If the government gave them the leases for free they wouldn't take them,'' said the adviser, who would speak only anonymously because of his position. ''No oil company really cares about ANWR,'' the adviser said, using an acronym for the refuge, pronounced ''an-war.''
 Wayne Kelley, who worked in Alaska as a petroleum engineer for Halliburton, the oil services corporation, and is now managing director of RSK, an oil consulting company, said the refuge's potential could ''only be determined by drilling.''
 ''The enthusiasm of government officials about ANWR exceeds that of industry because oil companies are driven by market forces, investing resources in direct proportion to the economic potential, and the evidence so far about ANWR is not promising,'' Mr. Kelley said.
 The project has long been on Mr. Bush's agenda. When he formulated a national energy policy during the 2000 campaign he turned to the oil industry for help. Heading the effort was Hunter Hunt, a top executive of the Hunt Oil Company, based in Dallas.
 The Bush energy advisers endorsed opening a small part -- less than 10 percent of the 19-million-acre refuge -- to oil exploration, an idea first proposed more than two decades ago. The refuge, their report stated, ''could eventually produce more than the amount of oil the United States now imports from Iraq.'' 
 The plan criticized President Bill Clinton's energy policies, both in the Middle East, where most of the world's oil lies, and in the United States. In 1995 Mr. Clinton vetoed legislation that authorized leasing in the Alaska refuge. An earlier opportunity to open it collapsed after oil spilled into Alaskan waters in 1989 from the Exxon Valdez. Subsequent efforts, including one in Mr. Bush's first term, also failed.
 Mr. Hunt, through an aide, declined an interview request. Others who advised Mr. Bush on his energy plan said including the refuge was seen as a political maneuver to open the door to more geologically promising prospects off the coasts of California and Florida. Those areas, where tests have found oil, have been blocked for years by federal moratoriums because of political and environmental concerns. 
 ''If you can't do ANWR,'' said Matthew R. Simmons, a Houston investment banker for the energy industry and a Bush adviser in 2000, ''you'll never be able to drill in the promising areas.'' 
 Shortly after assuming office, Mr. Bush asked Vice President Dick Cheney to lead an examination of energy policy. A May 2001 report by a task force Mr. Cheney assembled echoed many of Mr. Bush's campaign promises, including opening up part of the refuge. The report called for further study of the Gulf of Mexico and other areas. The next year, Mr. Bush said ''our national security makes it urgent'' to explore the refuge. 
 By then, the industry was moving in the opposite direction. In 2002 BP withdrew financial support from Arctic Power, a lobbying group financed by the state of Alaska, after an earlier withdrawal by Chevron Texaco. BP, long active in Alaska, later moved its team of executives to Houston from Alaska, a company executive said. 
 ''We're leaving this to the American public to sort out,'' said Ronnie Chappell, a BP spokesman, of the refuge. About a year ago, ConocoPhillips also stopped its financial support for Arctic Power, said Kristi A. DesJarlais, a company spokeswoman.
 Ms. DesJarlais said her company had a ''conceptual interest'' in the refuge but ''a more immediate interest in opportunities elsewhere.''
 Other companies have taken similar positions. George L. Kirkland, an executive vice president of Chevron Texaco, said a still-banned section in the Gulf of Mexico, where the company has already drilled, was of more immediate interest. ExxonMobil also has shown little public enthusiasm for the refuge. Lee R. Raymond, the chairman and chief executive, said in an television interview last December, ''I don't know if there is anything in ANWR or not.''
 For the Interior Department, however, the refuge is the best land-based opportunity to find new oil. Any lease revenues, estimated by the department to be $2.4 billion in 2007, would be split between the federal and state governments. Advocates say oil production could reach one million barrels per day. In a decade from now, when the site might be fully developed, that would be about 4 percent of American consumption, according to federal forecasts.
 David L. Bernhardt, deputy chief of staff to the secretary of the interior, cited a 1998 study by the United States Geological Survey estimating that the refuge might hold 10.4 billion barrels of recoverable oil. (The estimate for offshore oil is 76 billion barrels.) 
 But that study has significant weaknesses, which Mr. Bernhardt acknowledged. Its estimates are of ''petroleum resources'' -- potential oil deposits -- instead of ''petroleum reserves,'' which refers to oil that has been discovered.
 Ken Bird, a geological survey official who worked on the study, said the federal geologists did not have access to test data from the only exploratory well drilled on the refuge, by Chevron Texaco and BP in the 1980's. An official with one of the companies, speaking anonymously because of the confidentiality of the test, said that if the results had been encouraging the company would be more engaged in the political effort to open the refuge.
 There has not been much discussion about the refuge between the companies and the Bush administration, according to industry and government officials.
 ''I don't think I've talked to the oil industry over the last several years about the economic potential of ANWR,'' Mr. Bernhardt said.
 The relationship between the administration and the oil industry has been a flashpoint for critics of Mr. Bush. Democrats, upset that Mr. Cheney refused to disclose information about his task force meetings with industry executives, see a cozy alliance.
 Their concerns are heightened because of the former ties between the industry and Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney and the administration's stance on issues like climate change. The president once headed a small exploration company, and Mr. Cheney previously was chief executive of Halliburton.
 ''Big oil,'' Senator John Kerry said in last year's presidential campaign, now calls ''the White House their home.'' 
 Some industry executives say their views are more aligned with those of Republicans on a broad range of issues including regulation, the environment and energy supply, and they were heartened by the initial pronouncements of the Bush administration. But some say they feel let down by Mr. Bush's inability to lift bans on oil exploration.
 ''When this administration came in, the president and the vice president recognized there was a problem of energy supply and demand,'' said Tom Fry, the executive director of the National Offshore Industries Association. But Mr. Cheney's task force, Mr. Fry said, talked only about offshore drilling as something to be studied. ''They never say they will lift the moratoria,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about major oil companies' loss of interest in drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge misstated the name of a trade group for the offshore-petroleum industry. It is the National Ocean Industries Association, not Offshore Industries Association.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The coastal plain of the Artic National Wildlife Refuge, where the administration proposes to allow drilling. (Photo by Al Grillo/Associated Press)Chart/Map: ''For Arctic Refuge, Questions of Oil Potential''President Bush first proposed drilling in the coastal plain area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as a presidential candidate in 2000. Since then, the United States' dependence on foreign oil has continued to edge higher. Even the most optimistic backers of the drilling plan agree that any oil there would meet only a small fraction of the nation's energy needs.Graph tracks net oil imports as a percentage of consumption since 1995.2004 figure is for first 11 months.Map of Alaska highlighting the Artic National Wildlife Refuge. (pg. A12)(Source by Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); BETSY MARKEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ARCTIC (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



459 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; BEHIND THE BID; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: THE PLAYERS

BYLINE: By Lynn Zinser

 BODY:
New York officials welcomed the International Olympic Committees evaluation team last night at the start of a four-day tour. Lynn Zinser examines some of the key players and issues.

Daniel L. Doctoroff
Deputy Mayor
 Daniel L. Doctoroff caught Olympic fever while watching a World Cup soccer game at Giants Stadium in 1994. His astonishment at the international flavor of the event turned into a burning desire to bring the Olympics to New York in 2012. A Michigan native and a multimillionaire investment banker, he became the city's leading salesman.
 He founded NYC2012, invested $4 million of his money and set about to persuade New York's most influential businessmen to back him. His enthusiasm and intensity won him much support in those early days, but he has drawn significant criticism since becoming deputy mayor under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2001.
 Doctoroff's position allows him to use the mayor's pulpit to push Olympic projects, the largest and most controversial being a West Side stadium, which has Bloomberg's full backing.
 In the past year, Doctoroff has directed his sales pitch toward the 117 members of the International Olympic Committee, traveling extensively to meet them at every opportunity the I.O.C. allows. So far, he has succeeded in lifting the public perception of the bid, once considered a long shot, to serious contender. He refuses to discuss the other bid cities, aside from calling them all worthy, putting New York's bid above the stream of insults flying between London and Paris.
 That nice-guy image is far from the hard-driving one he has developed in New York while pushing his stadium plan and Olympic vision. But then again, playing nice does not always work in New York.

Michael R. Bloomberg
Mayor
 Michael R. Bloomberg's feelings about the Olympic bid became obvious upon his election in 2001. He appointed Daniel L. Doctoroff, the bid founder and its tireless advocate, deputy mayor for economic development. But since then, Bloomberg has gone much further.
 Not only has he taken a large political risk with his no-holds-barred approach to pushing for a West Side stadium, but he has also lent significant time and energy to the bid process. He went to the Athens Games in August to help woo International Olympic Committee members. He spent two days in Dubrovnik, Croatia, in December for the same reason. He will play host to the evaluation commission at a dinner at his home Wednesday night, and he will be involved in many of the bid team's presentations.
 Bloomberg has made a good impression in his international forays, helping dispel some initial skepticism within the I.O.C. about New York's bid.

Nawal el-Moutawakel
Chairwoman, I.O.C. evaluation commission
 In the Olympic history books, Nawal el-Moutawakel's place is secure as the first Muslim woman to win an Olympic medal. But her victory in the 400-meter hurdles at the 1984 Los Angeles Games meant so much more. Fellow Moroccans stayed up in droves to watch on television -- at 2 a.m. their time -- and people flooded the streets in Casablanca to celebrate her victory.
 Since ending her athletic career, Moutawakel has used her success to push for women's rights at home and in the international sports community. She speaks Arabic, French and English flawlessly. She was elected to the International Olympic Committee in 1998 and immediately bolstered its efforts to increase the participation of women in the Games. After all, she had overcome one of the hardest hurdles: many Muslims do not want women to compete in sports.
 For all the I.O.C.'s efforts to help women in athletics, the I.O.C. membership is still made up mostly of men, and Moutawakel's appointment as the head of this commission was considered another of her breakthroughs.

Gilbert Felli
Olympic Games
executive director
 Gilbert Felli will not cast a vote for which city will be host to the 2012 Olympics because he is a paid staff member of the International Olympic Committee, not a voting member. His influence, though, reaches far deeper than one vote.
 Felli, once a member of Switzerland's ski team and an architect by trade, essentially oversees every Olympics. He has guided the coordination commissions for every Games since 1992 in Barcelona, Spain, and will do the same for the Turin Winter Games in Italy next year. He understands the technical and logistical requirements so well that his word is trusted at the highest levels of the I.O.C.
 When the I.O.C. barred members from visiting bid cities after the Salt Lake City bribery scandal and decided to send an evaluation team to judge the bids, it chose Felli be on the 13-member committee. He has been on every one since 2000.
 He has great influence with the I.O.C. president, Dr. Jacques Rogge. After the experience of sweating out the problems and delays before the Athens Games last year, Rogge is particularly interested in the selection of a technically sound bid to spare the I.O.C. similar stress.

Charlie Battle
NYC2012
international relations director
 Charlie Battle became involved in the Olympic bid business when a good friend, Billy Payne, persuaded him to help Atlanta land the 1996 Games. Battle, 62, who was a successful lawyer in Atlanta, found that his infectious Southern charm could work wonders, even on the European-dominated International Olympic Committee.
 So winning is Battle's personality that no one blamed him for the many pitfalls of the Atlanta Games. He was a member of the I.O.C. evaluation commission that picked a city for the 2004 Games. Beijing and Vancouver, British Columbia, hired him as a consultant in winning efforts to land the 2008 Summer Games and the 2010 Winter Games. Everyone in the I.O.C. knows Battle.
 NYC2012's founder, Daniel L. Doctoroff, brought Battle into New York's fold about a year ago, and Battle has been traveling to countless I.O.C. functions, the only places bid promoters are allowed to approach members. The visits are part of the charm offensive New York hopes will sway members when they vote for a host city July 6.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by John Marshall Mantel)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich)
(Photo by Russell Boyce)
(Photo by John Gichigi)
 (Photo by Darko Bandic) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SOCCER (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); WOMEN (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); CROATIA (79%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



460 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Three States Are in Talks With Aon to Settle Inquiry
The attorneys general in New York, Connecticut and Illinois are in talks with Aon, the insurance broker, to settle investigations into whether it received improper payments from insurance companies that increased costs for its customers, some of the officials said.
 The talks have been under way for several weeks and could conclude with an agreement as early as this week, according to people who have been briefed on the case. [Page C2.]

Blogs Monitor the Press in Europe
In Europe, the Web has spawned a new breed of self-appointed cybermonitors of the conventional news media. One example is Bildblog, a media monitor that was created last summer and dissects the tabloid reports of Bild, Germany's leading daily. Christoph Schultheis, above, is one of the founding members of the blog. [Page C7.]

New Wave of Telecom Deals Seen
The merger wave in the telecommunications industry may soon hit the equipment makers that supply the big carriers. Investors are increasingly talking about potential deals between Motorola, Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks and possibly European manufacturers like Alcatel. The rationale is simple: When carriers merge, they cut their capital spending budgets. To survive, their suppliers have to merge to keep revenue growing and expand into new product areas. New Economy. [C4.]

Pop-Up Company Tries a New Path
The Claria Corporation, which has recently collected enemies among Internet users and publishers, is ready to play nice. The company, formerly known as the Gator Corporation, built a business covering consumer desktops and publisher Web sites with pop-up ads. But last week it announced a new advertising service that rejects pop-ups and seeks to make business partners of publishers. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C3.]

Post Office Drops Two Airlines
Add the United States Postal Service to the list of disgruntled airline customers. Exasperated by frequent delays that caused first-class mail to arrive late, the post office has stopped using American Airlines and US Airways. [C2.]

Glitch Enables Illegal Downloads
It was clear last week that Napster, which sells legal music downloads, still has less-than-perfect controls over illegal copying. [C6.]

Advertising for Peace in Middle East
The chief executive of Publicis Groupe, an advertising company, is leading an effort to develop a public service campaign promoting the idea of peace. It would run in Arabic and Hebrew, aimed at Israelis, Palestinians and -- perhaps eventually -- a wider audience. [C6.]

Spears Takes On Magazine
In an interview in the March issue of Details, Britney Spears referred to the influential Jann Wenner, publisher of US Weekly and editor of Rolling Stone, in unflattering terms. Ms. Spears has been the subject of a string of embarrassing articles in US Weekly over the last year. Adding fuel to the fire, a recent issue of US Weekly featured pictures that the magazine purchased Ms. Spears and Kevin Federline on their honeymoon. [C6.]

Financial Markets Closed
Financial markets in the United States are closed today for the Presidents' Day holiday.


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,785.22 down 10.79Nasdaq composite -- 2,058.62 down 18.0410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.26 up 0.18The euro -- 1.3067 up 0.0195The dollar -- 105.64 down 0.12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POSTAL SERVICE (86%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); MERGERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); BUDGETS (71%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (83%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (82%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (69%); CLARIA CORP (67%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (83%); ALU (NYSE) (83%); ALU (BIT) (83%); PUB (PAR) (82%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (67%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (67%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JANN WENNER (54%); BRITNEY SPEARS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2005



461 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Living Standards Among the Lowest, U.N. Finds

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KANDAHAR, Afghanistan, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Three years after the United States drove the Taliban out of Afghanistan and vowed to rebuild, the war-shattered country ranked 173rd of 178 countries in the United Nations 2004 Human Development Index, according to a new report from the United Nations. 
 It was trailed only by a few countries in sub-Saharan Africa: Burundi, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger and Sierra Leone.
 The survey, ''National Human Development Report: Security With a Human Face,'' released Monday in Kabul, is the first comprehensive look at the state of development in Afghanistan in 30 years. In addition to ranking Afghanistan in the development index for the first time, the report warned that Afghanistan could revert to anarchy if its dire poverty, poor health and insecurity were not improved. 
 ''The fragile nation could easily tumble back into chaos,'' concluded the authors of the study, led by Shahrbanou Tadjbakhsh, the report's editor in chief. ''The basic human needs and genuine grievances of the people, lack of jobs, health, education, income, dignity and opportunities for participation must be met.''
 Despite the problems, Afghanistan has shown remarkable progress in the three years since the United States-led war in 2001, the report said. 
 More than 54 percent of school-age children are enrolled, including four million high school students. The economy is making great strides, with growth of 16 percent in nondrug gross domestic product in 2003 and predicted growth of 10 to 12 percent annually for the next decade.
 While there has been rapid progress, said Zphirin Diabr, associate administrator of the United Nations Development Program, the country has a long way to go just to get back to where it was 20 years ago. The figures, as President Hamid Karzai says in the report's introduction, paint a gloomy picture.
 Average life expectancy for Afghanistan's 28.5 million people is 44.5 years, at least 20 years lower than that of neighboring countries, the report said. Ambassador Christopher Alexander of Canada, whose government helped pay for the report, said that illustrated Afghanistan's post-conflict predicament and the prevalence of poverty.
 One of two Afghans can be classified as poor, and 20.4 percent of the rural population does not have enough to eat, getting less than the benchmark of 2,070 calories a day. More than half of the population has suffered from the effects of a prolonged drought, the report said.
 One-quarter of the population has at some time sought refuge outside the country, and 3.6 million remain refugees or displaced people. 
 Most glaring are the inequalities that affect women and children, still some of the worst social indicators in the world today, said Alistair McKechnie, country director of the World Bank, which financed the report along with the Canadians and the United Nations. One woman dies from pregnancy-related causes about every 30 minutes, and maternal mortality rates are 60 times higher than in industrialized countries, the report said.
 One-fifth of the children die before the age of 5, 80 percent of them from preventable diseases, one of the worst rates in the world. Only 25 percent of the population has access to clean drinking water, and one in eight children die from lack of clean water.
 Afghanistan now has the worst education system in the world, the report concluded, and one of the lowest adult literacy rates, 28.7 percent. Annual per capita income was $190 and the unemployment rate 25 percent, said Hanif Atmar, the minister of rehabilitation and rural development.
 ''Obviously this is a warning,'' the minister said of the report. ''It shows why we are poor, how and in what way we can solve this.'' 
 The success of Afghanistan depends on improved security, political reform, broad-based economic development and gradual elimination of poppy production, Mr. McKechnie said, adding that failure in any of those areas would imperil the reconstruction of the state country and the living conditions of the people. 
 The report and its donors emphasized that attention must be paid to helping the nation's poorest people if Afghanistan is to be lifted out of its dire poverty and persistent instability.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Children warming themselves in a refugee camp in Kabul. They are among the many displaced Afghans. (Photo by Emilio Morenatti/Associated Press)Chart: ''Lagging Behind''Afghanistan is well behind its neighbors in several indicators of poverty and vulnerability.AfghanistanG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: $190LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 44.5INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 115*TajikistanG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 193LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 68.6INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 53UzbekistanG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 314LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 69.5INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 52PakistanG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 408LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 60.8INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 83TurkmenistanG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 1,601LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 66.9INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 76IranG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 1,652LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 70.1INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 35Least developed countriesG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 298LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 50.6INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 99WorldG.D.P. PER CAPITA 2002: 5,174LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH 2002: 66.9INFANT MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 LIVE BIRTHS 2002: 56*2003 figure(Source by United Nations Development Program) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); WRITERS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (59%) Taliban (Afghan Group); United Nations

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) Carlotta Gall

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALI (92%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); CANADA (92%); NIGER (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); BURUNDI (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



462 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; INNOVATORS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Brothers Raised on Cash Build a Business on Credit

BYLINE: By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
IN Monterrey, Mexico, where Roy and Bertrand Sosa grew up playing Atari and street soccer, cash paid for everything -- the rent, the water bill, the white Volkswagen Beetle. Even at fancy restaurants, the brothers never glimpsed a Visa card, and they never used credit until college in Austin, Tex. 
 So in the late 1990's, when upbeat dot-coms promised to build online uber-malls, the Sosa brothers wondered about how people without plastic could shop on the Internet. 
 ''How in the world are all these millions of Americans going to be able to buy things online?'' Roy recalled asking. For many people they knew, credit cards were still unfamiliar or out of reach, while checking accounts and debit cards were confusing or inconvenient. 
 Roy, then 28, and Bertrand, three years younger, hunted for another way to convert cash into digital dollars. Prepaid phone cards, sold directly in stores and vending machines, seemed like the right model. So, they thought, why not prepaid MasterCard and Visa cards? 
 Small-business advisers and lenders were skeptical, warning that customers for prepaid credit cards would be tough to find. 
 ''The first thing that you heard was that, 'Oh, those people don't have any money,''' Roy said. The brothers changed their sales pitch, saying they would market the cards to tech-smart teenagers. 
 But their first instincts proved right. With little advertising and even less publicity, their company, NetSpend, has put its gold All-Access cards into the wallets of one million customers, typically people in their late 20's who earn under $30,000 a year. 
 ''They understood a real market need,'' said Edward Kountz, senior analyst in the bankcards practice at TowerGroup, a market research company in Needham, Mass. ''They're certainly one of a core group of providers.'' 
 Started in 1999 with $750, NetSpend has built its prepaid-card business by persuading banks to hold customers' deposits and by working with MasterCard and Visa to get merchants to accept the card. Prepaid cards, a nascent idea when the Sosas began offering them, are increasingly being promoted by big banks for other uses, including gift giving, remittances, wages, even welfare and child-support payments. 
 Sold at supermarkets, drugstores and check-cashing outlets, NetSpend's cards cost $9.95 up front, with either a $1 surcharge for each purchase or an $8 to $10 fee a month, all paid in cash. Such fees, which are standard among prepaid providers, have raised objections from consumer groups. But NetSpend and other companies say they charge less than competing services that their customers have long used, like check-cashing and money-transfer centers. 
 Besides using the cards in stores, customers can withdraw cash at A.T.M.'s, pay bills online and have paychecks directly deposited. For Penny Ballard, an administrative assistant in Phoenix who is trying to rebuild her credit, that means never again giving 2 percent of her paycheck to a check-cashing outlet or borrowing her friend's MasterCard to buy a plane ticket. 
 Like her parents, Ms. Ballard has never had a checking account and has no plans to open one. ''This card offers all of the things the banks do,'' she said. 
 Roy Sosa said that NetSpend is tapping what he calls ''the Wal-Mart cohort,'' meaning undervalued consumers who have considerable spending power. ''We basically repackaged traditional financial services in a way that makes sense for those customers,'' said Roy, now 33 and the company's president. Bertrand, 30, is vice president in charge of marketing. 
 In a letter that Roy has saved, a customer in Houston said that until he bought the card, it was impossible for him to rent a car to see his children in Dallas, where their mother had custody, and take them out to a mall or restaurant. ''It really highlights the opportunities that we can deliver,'' Roy said. ''We can do this by allowing people to spend their money? To have their $20 be as good as anybody else's?''
 Last year, NetSpend's customers loaded $1 billion in cash onto their cards, which are sold primarily in the Southwest but are also available in New York, Illinois and Florida. The company said it expected to double that volume in 2005. 
 NetSpend has also recruited H. Eugene Lockhart, former chief executive of MasterCard International, to lead its board; he succeeds Stephen B. Galasso, former president of credit cards at Bank of America. Mr. Galasso, who remains a director at NetSpend, was the company's chief executive for three years.
 Based in Austin, NetSpend employs about 170 people at its new headquarters, at the Omni Austin Hotel office tower. The company bought the 12th-floor space from a defunct Internet start-up. 
 As NetSpend's business grows, its mission is expanding, the Sosas said. ''The economy is like a highway, and there are some people that get pushed out,'' Roy said. ''We like to think of ourselves as the access ramp.'' 
 This month, for instance, the company began offering cardholders free virtual accounts where they can set aside money for, say, a down payment on a car.
 But prepaid cards lack the standard federal safeguards against loss, fraud and theft, said Jean Ann Fox, director of consumer protection for the Consumer Federation of America, an advocacy group in Washington. No law expressly governs them, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is still deciding whether its coverage generally extends to cardholders' deposits. ''We're operating in a market where the plastic has gotten ahead of the protections,'' Ms. Fox said. 
 NetSpend, however, says it is voluntarily following the federal laws that govern debit cards, and in late 2003, after a lengthy and complicated application process, it became one of the few prepaid providers to have its accounts insured by the F.D.I.C.
 The Sosas say that prepaid cards can work like financial training wheels, helping people learn, or relearn, how to use plastic wisely. To help its customers qualify for credit, the company is offering to share transaction histories with credit-card issuers, like a credit bureau would. ''Would we like to keep the customer for another one or two years? Of course,'' Roy said. ''Is it better for a customer? No.''
 But, he added, ''if the word gets out that NetSpend is the way that you can enter the highway again,'' then there will always be people to buy its cards. 
 That was the case for Christi Turney, a real-estate agent in Palm Harbor, Fla., who had gone past the limit on her credit cards after her husband lost his job in 2002. No bank would give her another card, she said. ''I was so desperate,'' she said. ''I couldn't even rent a car for business trips.''
 Her prepaid card restored her buying power and helped her pride. ''It's just the fact that you have access to things,'' she said. ''You can take people to dinner, and they don't know it's your prepaid card.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: GOOD GUESS -- Roy Sosa, left, and his brother Bertrand sell prepaid credit cards. (Photo by George Brainard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PREPAID CARDS (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (87%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); INTERNET BANKING (76%); RETAILERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (74%); TEENS MARKET (71%); DEBIT CARDS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (50%) Credit and Money Cards; Company and Organization Profiles; Credit and Money Cards

COMPANY: VISA INC (94%); NETSPEND HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Netspend (Co)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (94%); NTSP (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%)

PERSON: Roy Sosa; Bertrand Sosa; Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



463 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: In a Theater, Seeking Insights on Urban Planning

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Robert Moses and Le Corbusier were not exactly kindred spirits, though both were larger-than-life urban planners. Le Corbusier, the architect, proposed reorganizing Paris into superblocks. Moses, the parks commissioner and city planner in the middle of the last century, created most of New York City's parks and highways. Nevertheless, these two figures currently share the stage of the Ohio Theater on Wooster Street in SoHo in the rather quirky play ''Boozy: The Life, Death and Subsequent Vilification of Le Corbusier and, More Importantly, Robert Moses.'' After Sunday night's performance, a panel of experts, along with one of the play's creators, discussed the legacy of these two figures and the issues they raise for today's New York.
 ''How one creates public works in a democracy'' is what David Evans Morris said he and his collaborators on the play -- which opened on Thursday and runs through March 5 -- were interested in exploring. As Robert A. Caro points out in ''The Power Broker,'' his 1974 biography of Moses, ''every great public work has been built under some autocratic regime,'' Mr. Morris said. 
 This idea seems to resonate in the continuing planning for ground zero, Mr. Morris said, in that the PATH station designed by Santiago Calatrava is the only architecturally acclaimed piece so far. As a Port Authority project, the PATH station was largely unencumbered by the many decision makers involved in the site. ''Democracy had nothing to do with it,'' Mr. Morris said, ''and it's gorgeous.''
 Today's planning climate -- including the World Trade Center site and the potential Jets stadium on the Far West Side -- calls for another theatrical installment, said Deborah Gans, author of ''The Le Corbusier Guide.'' 
 ''We need a sequel in which Danny Libeskind has more than a walk-on part,'' she said, referring to Daniel Libeskind, who designed the master plan for ground zero. She added that such a sequel would have to include a character called Bloomy (Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg) as well as Boozy (Le Corbusier). 
 ''It's an olympic struggle,'' she continued, brainstorming aloud. ''Moses is drooling because it turns out that New York is again empty. You have railroads and coastline that is crying out for more. There is a great postmodern void you'll have to fill.'' 
 The architect Rem Koolhaas would have a part, she went on, saying that things should be ''extra big, extra big,'' and the ''green people'' would be arguing for ecological considerations.
 The panel, organized by The Architect's Newspaper, included David Grahame Shane, an expert on urban design, and Geoff Lynch of the architecture firm H3 Hardy Collaboration.
 Presented by the theater company Les Freres Corbusier, the play was conceived by Juliet Chia and Alex Timbers along with Mr. Morris, and written by Adam Scully. It was directed by Mr. Timbers, includes original songs by Douglas J. Cohen and features characters like Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, the Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Reviewing the play in The New York Times, Charles Isherwood wrote: ''The show certainly serves as a lively if loose primer on the career of a legendary figure in New York City history, but it's hampered as a theatrical entertainment by the monotony of its self-conscious comic tone.''
 Mr. Shane took issue with the play's portrayal of Jane Jacobs, who wrote about the importance of maintaining street life in urban planning, as a shrill harpy who hurls a croissant at Le Corbusier -- her boyfriend in the play -- and organizes housewives to oppose Moses. ''I thought you were really cruel to Jane Jacobs, and unnecessarily so,'' Mr. Shane said. 
 ''I could tell you were totally up to date on her theory,'' he added, but ''she was an amazing person who activated'' people.
 At the same time, Mr. Shane said, the play challenged some of his notions about urban planning. ''I'm a bit of a fan of emergence theory,'' he said, ''but now you've got me questioning myself.'' As the play defines emergence, ''simple components self-organize to create complex, functioning systems, absent of any 'top-down' control.'' 
 Mr. Morris said he and his colleagues poked fun at Jacobs ''mainly because we felt she so clearly won.''
 ''Did she win?'' Mr. Shane responded. ''That's the real question.''
 To some extent, Mr. Morris said, the creators wanted to play against type, lionizing Moses, now known for his hardhearted bulldozing of neighborhoods, and vilifying Jacobs, now beloved for championing the importance of preserving local character. ''So we turn him into the superhero and her into the diabolical,'' Mr. Morris said.
 These broad theatrical strokes aside, however, Mr. Morris said Moses was not a clear-cut figure. ''We take what he did so for granted, and no one else has been able to build on that scale since him,'' he said.
 Mr. Shane said one's ultimate assessment of the Moses legacy in New York depends on ''how green you are.''
 ''It's like we've learned -- beyond Jane Jacobs -- that everything has a cost,'' he said. ''We can't breathe the air; waters are polluted. It's a very, very complicated debate in the end.''
 As for Le Corbusier, Mr. Shane said, ''Corb hated New York, and you didn't really put that across.'' 
 Ms. Gans said: ''It was love-hate. He was jealous of it, and he kind of lusted after it. He loved the silverware.''
 She said Le Corbusier ''would have really liked this play.''
 ''He was a theatrical charlatan at heart,'' she said. ''Le Corbusier was a stage name.'' 
 ''He self-constructed his identity after the First World War,'' she continued. ''He had a prop -- a bicycle -- and a bowler hat.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nina Hellman as Jane Jacobs and Daniel Larlham as Le Corbusier in ''Boozy,'' at the Ohio Theater in SoHo. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); WRITERS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (52%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%) Theater; Area Planning and Renewal; Urban Areas ; Architecture

ORGANIZATION: Architect's Newspaper

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) Robert (1888-1981) Moses; Le Corbusier (Charles-Edouard Jeanneret) (1887-1965); Geoff Lynch; David Grahame Shane; David Evans Morris; Deborah Gans; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



464 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey and Delaware at Odds Over a 1682 Grant Blocking a Riverside Terminal

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
Because of a quirk in an agreement between William Penn and the duke of York more than three centuries ago, some stretches of the Delaware River between Delaware and New Jersey belong almost entirely to Delaware. Just where the boundary falls within the river has long bedeviled fishermen, crabbers and duck hunters on the New Jersey side, and now the fate of a $500 million liquefied natural gas terminal may hang in the balance. 
 BP is proposing to build the terminal in Logan Township, N.J., just south of the Commodore Barry Bridge, a project that could bring 500 construction jobs and tens of millions of dollars in economic benefits to western Gloucester County. The company has promised that the plant will provide five million homes with energy. 
 But an integral part of the plant is a 2,000-foot pier that would extend into Delaware's territory. That means that BP, like generations of New Jersey fishermen and hunters, is required to get a permit from Delaware. On Feb. 3, the head of Delaware's environmental department denied BP's request for the permit. The secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, John A. Hughes, said the plant would constitute a new heavy industry, which is prohibited in Delaware's coastal zone. 
 A week ago, BP appealed the decision to the Coastal Zone Industrial Control Board of Delaware, which is required to rule within 60 days. 
 Back in New Jersey, Assemblyman John J. Burzichelli, whose district includes Logan Township, has demanded that Delaware keep its laws off New Jersey's shores. Mr. Burzichelli, a Democrat, is looking into ways to move the state line or modify the current arrangement so that New Jersey's authority would extend deeper into the Delaware River. Barring that, he is calling on New Jersey residents to consider not using credit cards issued by banks in Delaware. 
 ''If you're going to extend your will and adversely affect our economic development and redevelopment, we're going to talk about not participating in your economy,'' he said.
 The roots of the dispute reach back to March 22, 1682, when Charles II gave his brother, James, the duke of York and the future King James II, all the land within a 12-mile radius of New Castle, now in Delaware. A few months later, the duke granted to William Penn land bordered by the circle ''along with that part of the Delaware River and all of its islands within the 12-mile circle for 10,000 years, at the cost of 5 shillings,'' according to ''East of the Mason Dixon Line, a History of the Delaware Boundaries,'' by Roger E. Nathan (Delaware Heritage Press, 2000). That gave Penn access to the sea from the Port of Philadelphia.The boundary never set well between the two states, whose fights over fishing rights were not resolved until a Supreme Court decision in 1934, said Constance Cooper, director of library and archives for the Historical Society of Delaware. The court decided that Delaware owned the river underneath the 12-mile circle, all the way to the mean low tide line. North and south of the circle, the border is in the middle of the shipping channel. 
 The boundary issue, complicated as it is, also has an environmental factor. Robert J. Valihura Jr., a Delaware state representative, described the terminal site as a beautiful piece of property with an excellent view of the river, which is a route for migrating birds, he said. 
 ''If something tragic happens on that coast, or if it disappears through industrialization, a migratory route of international significance will disappear, and the birds will disappear with it,'' he said. ''If it were in my district I'd have been fighting tooth and nail to save that land from development of any sort.'' 
 He added, ''I sort of liken this dispute to a neighbor who wants to build a garage in their backyard, but they want to put a driveway through my property.'' 
 A BP spokesman, Tom Mueller, said the site, now a soybean field owned by Sunoco, was chosen because it was far from major population centers, accessible to large ships and has natural gas pipelines running under it.
 The terminal would receive liquefied natural gas, chilled to minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit, from Trinidad, which would be reprocessed for use in homes and industries. It could produce 1.2 billion cubic feet a day, Mr. Mueller said. 
 He said that Delaware law permits a bulk transfer facility, if it is tied to a manufacturing plant on shore. BP argues that the terminal qualifies as a manufacturing plant. 
 While BP's argument will more than likely be ruled on in the courts, there is a precedent for a Delaware-New Jersey battle to be settled in a gentlemanly fashion.
 In the 1980's, when Delaware prohibited net fishing for shad, Thomas A. Pankok, then a freeholder in Salem County, N.J., helped persuade Delaware to allow a handful of New Jersey fishermen to use nets in Delaware waters for as long as they live.
 The fishermen, now aged 60 to 88, are preparing this month for their annual 60-mile trek from Salem, N.J., to Dover, Del., for their fishing licenses. One of them, Sid Riley, 71, looks forward to getting his annual supply of shad roe, known as ''poor man's caviar.''
 He said he was pleased with his special privilege, until he learned that Delaware required him to throw back the stripers he caught in his shad nets, because New Jersey prohibits taking the fish that way. If he wanted to eat the stripers, he would have to do so in Delaware. 


GRAPHIC: Maps of Delaware, Pennsylvania and New Jersey highlighting the proposed terminal pier: Delaware has refused a permit for a pier on its border with New Jersey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); SPORT HUNTING (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (71%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (71%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); DELAWARE, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



465 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: The Next 9/11 Could Happen at Sea

BYLINE: By John S. Burnett. 
John S. Burnett is author of ''Dangerous Waters: Modern Piracy and Terror on the High Seas.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
AN unsuspected bit of good news related to the Indian Ocean tsunami was revealed this month when the International Maritime Bureau released its annual report on pirate attacks against international shipping. The new figures showed a 27 percent decline in 2004, to 325 incidents from 445 in 2003, and noted that there had not been single attack in the pirate-infested waters off Sumatra since the earthquake.
 Now, while these figures show an improvement, the positive trend should not distract us from the huge threat that piracy, and its connection to terrorism, pose to the global economy. 
 Piracy did not disappear with the killing of Blackbeard. I found this out the hard way in 1992 when pirates boarded my sloop as I was crossing the South China Sea. After suffering a beating, I was able to escape. But many others have not been so lucky. Last year, according to the maritime bureau, some 400 crew members and passengers were killed, injured, held hostage or remain missing as a result of attacks. Every year the pirates are better organized, ambushing ships with military precision and firepower. 
 Merchant vessels are the lowest-hanging fruit of global commerce, slow and vulnerable to attack. Hauling 90 percent of world trade, these lumbering beasts file through the world's choke points -- the Suez and Panama Canals, the Bab el Mandeb (the entrance to the Red Sea), the Straits of Gibraltar and the Malacca Strait between Indonesia and Malaysia. 
 It is the Strait of Malacca, the shortest sea route connecting the Indian and Pacific Oceans, that has maritime and intelligence authorities most worried. The passage, 600 miles long but just over a mile wide at one point, is the conduit for 50,000 ships a year, carrying a third of the world's commerce and half of its crude oil. 
 Despite the global decline in the number of reported attacks (many experts feel that there are hundreds more each year that go unreported), the number of attacks in the Malacca Strait increased last year to 37 from 28 in 2003. And, while many raids are likely carried out by crime syndicates, there is evidence that many have been the work of the Free Aceh Movement of northern Sumatra, an Islamist separatist organization that has been fighting to gain independence from Indonesia since 1976. While the United States does not officially call the group a terrorist organization, the Indonesian government does. And many terrorism experts cite its links to Jemaah Islamiyah, the Islamist group suspected in the Bali nightclub bombings of 2003, and to Al Qaeda.
 In 2002, the Free Aceh Movement announced that vessels moving through the strait were to seek its ''permission for safe passage,'' a classic protection scam. It has also admitted to attacking Exxon-Mobil natural-gas plants in Aceh. In March 2003, the chemical tanker Dewi Madrim was attacked by heavily armed pirates in speedboats in the Malacca Strait. According to the crew, the pirates, speaking Indonesian, seemed less interested in robbery than in taking turns steering the ship down the congested waterway. They took two officers hostage and a satchel full of technical documents. Singapore's defense minister, Tony Tan, said that he was concerned that this incident and others like it were practice runs for a terrorist attack. 
 Just as terrorists learned to be pilots for 9/11, terrorists may now be learning to be pirates. Purposely grounding a crude carrier hauling two million barrels of oil at a place like Batu Berhanti, where the strait is little more than a mile wide, would close the waterway indefinitely. The delay in oil supplies to China, Japan and South Korea could devastate their economies, setting off a global economic crisis. 
 Such concerns are why Potengal Mukundan, the director of the International Maritime Bureau, said he was encouraged that there have been no attacks since the tsunami. The coastal fishing villages, or kampongs, from which the attacks are launched have probably been severely damaged. Indeed, I cannot imagine how the kampong I visited in the late 1990's, a backwater village on stilts among the mangroves, could have survived a tidal surge as high as 10 feet. ''Many of the pirates may have died,'' Captain Mukundan said. 
 It is also possible that the large American military presence as part of the tsunami relief efforts in Aceh has given the pirates pause. In fact, American officials have been calling for a show of force in the Malacca Strait for some time. Adm. Thomas Fargo, head of the Pacific Command, told the House Armed Services Committee last year that the United States should team up with the Malaysian and Indonesian Navies to deploy special forces on high-speed boats to counter pirates. Unfortunately, the defense ministers of those countries rejected the plan, saying that the American military patrolling the strait would violate their sovereignty. (Another concern was that aligning their nations with American policy could add to the tensions both are experiencing with Islamic fundamentalists.)
 Now, one hopes, these countries will take note of what an increased military presence can accomplish, because the pause in piracy will not last forever, nor will the cease-fire the Free Aceh Movement made with the Indonesian government in the aftermath of the tsunami. Unless Indonesia and Malaysia accept American help in fighting them, the pirates will be back. And we'll be lucky if plundering loot is all they have in mind.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nathan Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARITIME PIRACY (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); BULK SHIPPING (77%); AL-QAEDA (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%) Terrorism; Piracy at Sea; Ships and Shipping; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: International Maritime Bureau

PERSON: John S Burnett

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); RED SEA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) INDONESIA (97%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Indonesia; Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



466 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; THE CONSUMER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Heartburn Relief, From Aciphex to Zantac

BYLINE: By MARY DUENWALD

 BODY:
Five popular heartburn drugs work in essentially the same way, but only one of them, Prilosec, is sold without a prescription. Does that mean it is not as effective as the others? No, doctors say, Prilosec works just as well as the prescription drugs for most people -- but only if they can get their hands on it.
 The pills are in such short supply that many drugstores are asking customers to wait two weeks or more for fresh stocks. Some patients have tracked down the medicine by calling around to other stores or shopping on eBay. Others have switched to prescription brands like Prevacid, Nexium, Aciphex and Protonix, which cost five to six times as much. 
 The drugs belong to a class known as proton pump inhibitors, or P.P.I.'s. 
 But another alternative is to switch to less powerful and less expensive over-the-counter acid blockers like Zantac or Tagamet, or even old-fashioned antacids like Rolaids and Pepto-Bismol, which doctors say offer relief to many people with mild to moderate heartburn.
 One side effect of the shortage, in other words, may be to demonstrate that P.P.I.'s are often not the most economical choice.
 ''Saying they are the right treatment for heartburn is a little like saying that driving a Rolls-Royce to the supermarket is the best way to get there,'' said Dr. Jerry Avorn, an internist at Brigham and Women's Hospital, in Boston, who wrote ''Powerful Medicines: The Benefits, Risks and Costs of Prescription Drugs.'' ''At current prices, it is wasteful and irrational for them to be the first thing that a patient or a doctor thinks of whenever they see a bellyache.''
 Americans spent $13.5 billion on prescription P.P.I.'s in 2003, making them the second biggest-selling class of drugs, after cholesterol-lowering medicines, according to NDCHealth, a healthcare information company. The drugs are used to treat GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease), whose chief symptom is recurring heartburn, and to heal the esophageal sores it can cause.
 More than 60 million Americans suffer from GERD at least monthly, according to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. ''These conditions are so common and the drugs are so safe that patients go through them like water,'' said Dr. Nicholas Shaheen, director of the Center for Esophageal Diseases and Swallowing at the University of North Carolina. 
 Demand for proton pump inhibitors has been fueled by a barrage of advertisements. AstraZeneca, which makes Nexium, spent more than $110 million on television commercials for the ''purple pill'' last year, according The AARP Watchdog Report.
 AstraZeneca also makes Prilosec, the best-selling prescription drug before it went over the counter less than two years ago. Chemically, the two drugs are distinct, but they keep stomach cells from producing acid in a similar manner. And doctors say they work equally well for a great majority of patients. ''Unless your condition is very bad, you're going to do pretty well on either drug,'' Dr. Shaheen said.
 Prevacid, Aciphex and Protonix, the other prescription P.P.I.'s, also work in basically the same way. ''There are certainly chemical differences between them, but no significant clinical differences, provided the doses are the same,'' said Dr. Steven F. Moss, a gastroenterologist at Brown Medical School.
 Prilosec is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for self-treatment of frequent heartburn, which, if it occurs at least twice a week, falls under the definition of GERD. Prilosec use should be limited to one 14-day course every four months.
 The over-the-counter medicine does not pose any special danger with longer use. But people whose heartburn persists longer than two weeks should see a doctor to check for more severe problems, like scarring in the throat or Barrett's esophagus, a precancerous disorder.
 Doctors often prescribe or recommend P.P.I.'s without conducting any diagnostic test for GERD, like an endoscopy, figuring that success with the medicine will demonstrate that the patient's problem was excess acid. Patients then often continue taking the drugs for months or years.
 But half of the people who have GERD can get relief instead from H2 blockers, the class of acid-reducing drugs that includes Zantac and Tagamet. The H2 blockers work faster, while P.P.I.'s need a day or two to take effect.
 Prescription P.P.I.'s cost about $4 a pill. A Prilosec is 65 to 80 cents. Zantac, Tagamet and similar medicines are available over the counter for 20 to 35 cents each.
 Cheaper still are Rolaids, Alka-Seltzer, Maalox and Pepto-Bismol, antacids that can quickly calm occasional cases of heartburn. And even cheaper are changes in behavior, like cutting back on caffeine, nicotine, alcohol and spicy foods, avoiding eating within a few hours of bedtime and losing weight.
 But such changes may not help people with severe GERD. ''Of course, you want people to stop smoking and lose weight, but the idea that that's going to stop their reflux may be a pipe dream,'' said Dr. Stuart Jon Spechler, chief of gastroenterology at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Dallas.
 Only 2 to 3 percent of P.P.I. users suffer side effects, mainly headaches and diarrhea, so the issue of safety usually does not prompt doctors to turn to less potent drugs. Insurers have begun pushing physicians to consider the cost. Georgia Medicaid, for example, requires that doctors try treating patients with H2 blockers before resorting to P.P.I.'s. In 2002, this rule saved the state $20.6 million, said Dr. Tom Delate, who reviewed Georgia's drug costs for Express Scripts, a pharmacy benefits manager.
 Procter & Gamble, which markets Prilosec, has been working with AstraZeneca to ease the shortage. A P&G spokesman said shelves should be stocked in two to three months.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (92%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GASTROESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE (89%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (89%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (78%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (77%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (70%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (70%); DIABETES (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%) Heartburn; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Research

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (58%)

TICKER: AZN (STO) (58%); AZN (NYSE) (58%); AZN (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: Mary Duenwald

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



467 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Kremlin Interference Seen as Critical Factor in Decline of Russia's Oil Output

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND and JAD MOUAWAD; Erin E. Arvedlund reported from Moscow for this article and Jad Mouawad from New York.

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Almost overnight, the Kremlin has become one of the world's most important energy players. But that has made foreign investors wary as the Russian government has tightened its grip on the oil and gas industry, contributing to a decline in oil production.
 The country's oil production began to drop in October and has fallen slightly ever since. Crude oil output in January was 9.28 million barrels a day, down from 9.42 million barrels a day in September, Russian Energy Ministry data show. 
 Though that was partly due to an expected seasonal winter decline, the collapse of Russia's largest oil producer, Yukos, in response to the government's squeeze on the company also appears to have contributed to the fall. And the political trauma seems to be at the center of fears that Russia might not be able to meet demands for more energy output. ''The breakup of Yukos has been the most disruptive event affecting Russian production,'' said Alex Brideau, a Russia analyst at the consulting firm Eurasia Group in New York ''Now, there's confusion and uncertainty as to what the Kremlin's end game will be.''
 Sergei Oganesyan, the head of the Russian federal energy agency, said earlier this month that he expected Russia's oil production to rise to 9.74 million barrels a day this year, a 5.7 percent increase over last year. But most other forecasts are more conservative. 
 Oil and gas production has been a major driver of Russia's stunning economic recovery. And at a time when global production is extremely tight and demand remains strong, consuming nations can ill afford weakness from Russia, the world's No. 2 oil producer after Saudi Arabia. 
 ''Russian production has played a very important role, particularly since 1998, and it's become critical'' to world markets, said Adrian Lajous, chairman of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies in London and a senior fellow at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Russia's exports ''probably won't grow at the rates they were in recent years,'' he added. 
 Yukos, with its Western-style headquarters and relatively open management style, could not be more different from state-run Gazprom, a heavily guarded monolith outside Moscow, which recalls an old-style state ministry office. 
 While Yukos has been the loser in the Kremlin's bid to retake control of the energy industry, Gazprom is the winner. Moscow is pinning its hopes on Gazprom, the country's natural gas monopoly, becoming Russia's version of Exxon Mobil or Aramco. On Monday, Gazprom said its net profit rose 9 percent in the first nine months of 2004, to 137.9 billion rubles, or $4.9 billion, on sales that rose 14 percent, to 683.3 billion rubles, or $24.5 billion, compared with the same period a year earlier.
 But Gazprom is a high-cost, relatively inefficient monolith, as shown by the 19 percent increase in its operating costs. Already, Gazprom has had to delay plans to lift limits on foreign shareholders, partly because of the legal tangle over the Yukos oil field it looks likely to acquire.
 The company controls at least 20 percent of the world's natural gas reserves, but needs billions of dollars in foreign investment to pay for exploration and to develop a system to convert its gas into liquefied natural gas for transport to markets not reachable by pipeline. Foreign investment would also be needed if Gazprom goes ahead with a long-planned merger with Rosneft, the midsize Russian state oil company that bought the Yukos oil field, Yuganskneftegas.
 But as the Kremlin's chosen energy juggernaut, Gazprom is juggling two very different obligations: one to shareholders -- growth of profits, investments and raising capital on the open market -- and the other to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
 Only a year ago, Russia had a much larger pool of independent oil companies. Today, only three remain -- TNK-BP, a joint venture between a Russian business and BP; Lukoil, Russia's No.2 producer; and Sibneft, which is still caught up in a failed merger with Yukos.
 Yulia Woodruff, a Russia analyst with Energy Security Analysis, a consulting firm in Wakefield, Mass., said that the major reshuffling of ownership and assets -- the biggest change since the industry's shady privatization deals of the early 1990's -- would have a negative impact on Russia's oil production.
 When Mr. Putin was elected president in 2000, he tried to make big changes at Gazprom, installing Aleksei Miller, a trusted envoy, as chief executive. Mr. Miller pledged to end suspect financial practices and eventually to scrap the strict limits on foreign investment, allowing Western mutual funds and other conservative investors to pour billions of dollars into buying shares. 
 Mr. Putin keeps close tabs on Gazprom, according to Anders Aslund, a long-time Russia specialist who is a senior associate with the Carnegie Endowment in Washington. ''Miller meets with Putin at least three times a week,'' he said. ''Nobody outside of the Kremlin has such access to the president.''
 Until recently, the Kremlin appeared to be maneuvering Gazprom into position to control about 15 percent of Russia's oil output. But an 11th-hour bankruptcy filing by Yukos in a Texas court threw those plans into disarray. Rosneft ended up buying the Yugansk oil field. If Gazprom should merge with Rosneft or take possession of the oil field alone, that could jeopardize its future financing needs in the capital markets, investors say. 
 ''Gazprom doesn't want to be contaminated with any legal problems,'' Mr. Williams said, that the buyer could face from Yukos's founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, who is now jailed, or his partners or Yukos shareholders. 
 Stuart Eisenstat, who served as a top economics official in the Carter and Clinton administrations and is now an adviser to the board of Menatep, the investment company for Mr. Khodorkovsky, agreed with that view. If and when the Yugansk field changes hands, he said, ''the purchasers can expect a lifetime of lawsuits, including from American shareholders.'' 
 Fear of litigation in the West has forced a rare retreat by the Kremlin. Gazprom had been hoping to raise the government's share in the combined company to a 51 percent majority stake, up from 38 percent now. Then, by dropping an archaic two-share system, in which foreigners can only buy more expensive shares while Russians can buy cheaper local shares, foreigners would be allowed to own up to 25 percent. 
 Even if it does merge with Rosneft, and potentially assumes ownership of Yukos oil assets, Gazprom could amass an eye-popping $14 billion in debt, compared with its $60 billion market capitalization. 
 Although Gazprom has four major prospective projects -- major gas fields in Yamal, Shtokmann, Kovytka and Sakhalin -- each one could demand investments of $25 billion, Mr. Aslund of Carnegie estimated. A handful of different pipeline projects could demand $30 billion or more.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Gazprom worker checks a valve at a refinery in Urengoy, Russia. The company's operating costs have increased 19 percent, but it has delayed lifting limits on foreign shareholders. (Photo by Dmitry Beliakov/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (64%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); OAO NK YUKOS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukos (Russian Co)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

PERSON: Erin E Arvedlund; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



468 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Ties To China: Strong Trade, Shaky Politics

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Just as China's state news agency was berating Japan for its ''wild behavior'' in joining the United States to express their ''common strategic objectives'' in Taiwan, the news came Monday that Japanese trade with China jumped 27 percent last year, hitting a record high of $168 billion.
 It was only the latest example of a troubling dynamic in the countries' relations: white hot economics and deep freeze politics. 
 The joint United States-Japan declaration on Taiwan, buried last week in a long, seemingly bland statement of cooperative security objectives, left many Chinese analysts outraged. ''Japan colonized Taiwan for half a century,'' one Chinese expert based here said Monday, hardly containing his anger. ''When Japan talks about Taiwan, we think they have no right to talk.'' He asked to remain unidentified because he did not want to criticize Japan publicly. 
 But others say Japan's mention of Taiwan in its list of goals for a safer Asia was part of a larger effort to stand up to China's expanding power. 
 Japan's growing economic dependence on China would seem to point toward a greater deference from Tokyo. But political and military affairs have risen in importance in the region, and for Japan's government they may now be edging out economic concerns. As a result, many here say, it makes sense for Tokyo to bolster Taiwan, a convenient buffer state that absorbs the military hostility and expansive energy of its rival.
 To the east of Taiwan, Japanese islands already feel Chinese pressure: Chinese drilling last fall for gas in an area claimed by Japan, a Chinese submarine caught in November trying to slip through Japanese territorial waters, and a continuing effort by China to have a Japanese island declared a rock, a legal strategy that would deprive Japan of thousands of square miles of economic rights. 
 Discarding the language of diplomacy, Hatsuhisa Takashima, the spokesman for the Foreign Ministry of Japan, said in an interview on Monday that the inclusion of Taiwan in the security list was a consequence of those actions. China has been increasing its military budget by 10 percent annually for the past 10 years, continued Mr. Takashima, whose government is actually cutting its defense spending this year. 
 Fear of a rising China prompted Hiroyuki Hosoda, the government's chief cabinet secretary, to ask the European Union on Monday to retain its embargo on arm sales to China. ''The sale of advanced weaponry would fuel tensions and is a concern for Japan,'' he said.
 The Chinese argue that Japan must adapt to a new reality in Asia. Recalling China's occupation of Taiwan and its depredations on the mainland, the Chinese analyst, a graduate of American and Chinese universities, said: ''For almost two centuries, Japan had a weak and divided China. Now we have a nearly integrated, strong China. The Japanese are not ready for that.''
 For Taiwan, which was delighted by Tokyo's surprise announcement, the best strategy is to form an alliance to check China. Taiwanese officials note that South Korea recently renewed direct flights between Seoul and Taiwan, a link broken over a decade ago. And they eagerly endorse the stalled six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear weapons, which aim to preclude North Korea from even considering a military option. 
 ''With regards to China, we hope that there is a military encirclement so China will not go for a military adventure as well,'' Koh Se-kai, Taiwan's representative to Japan, said in an interview on Monday. Speaking fluent Japanese acquired during a three-decades-long exile here that ended in the 1990's, he added: ''The United States and Japan announced their interest in the Taiwan straits issue. We welcome it for it seems to be the first step for such an encirclement.''
 The Japanese see themselves as moving cautiously. The Taiwan statement may have set off fire alarms in Chinese newsrooms, but to Japanese eyes it was so subtle that it received light mention on Monday in the Japanese press. 
 Briefing reporters in Washington on Saturday, Mr. Takashima, the Japanese spokesman, said that in the event of war between Taiwan and China, Japan would limit itself to providing logistical support, saying: ''Surely, Japan would support American action, but we wouldn't join the military action itself. It is prohibited by the Constitution.'' 
 Yet, one observer left Tokyo last week with words of caution for Japan and China. ''The biggest challenge to Japan is going to be how it arranges its relationship with China,'' Howard H. Baker Jr. said Wednesday at a small news briefing before stepping down as American ambassador here. ''Japan is a superpower. China is on its way to being a superpower. They are both rich, they both have a history and tradition in this region. And they don't much like each other.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a news analysis article yesterday about tensions over Japan's support for the security of Taiwan, which China considers a breakaway province, misidentified the occupying power in Taiwan during the Japanese military conquests in Asia before World War II. It was Japan, not China. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%) International Trade and World Market

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%) China; Japan; Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



469 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; INNOVATORS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: On Big Stage, Little Guys Say, 'Hey, Check This Out'

BYLINE: By MARTY KATZ

 BODY:
THE Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last month was like a Super Bowl for technology giants, a chance to bask in the media glow and show off. But the gathering was heady for start-ups, too. Here are some of the minor players.

KidSmart
 Matthew Ferris, 27, and Bruce Black, 29, were in a master's of business program at the University of Georgia, when they heard about a patent for a talking smoke detector. 
 Children can sleep through almost anything, including very loud fire alarms, but Mr. Ferris and Mr. Black decided that what they called the cocktail party effect -- that a person's own name or a familiar voice cuts through a haze of chatter -- might penetrate the deeper sleep cycles of children. 
 As the pair polished the idea, they won regional competitions pitting business plans against one another. They also won a national contest; the grand prize was a $100,000 equity investment. Last November, they got their first marketable detectors, ready for sale at $69.95. After making the rounds of trade shows and fire conventions, they set up a small booth in an out-of-the-way spot at the electronics show. As a result, in the first quarter of this year, they will ship at least 25,000 KidSmart Vocal Smoke Detectors to about 30 clients.

Sling Media
 For Blake Krikorian, 33, baseball deprivation while on the road as a computer consultant with his brother, Jason, 37, forced him into action. During the 2002 season, the San Francisco Giants were on their way to the World Series. But while traveling, the brothers engaged in a usually fruitless search for Giants games on television. 
 They grew up around Silicon Valley, where people who need electronic gear often just build it themselves. So Blake bought off-the-shelf components and put together circuitry that digitized whatever was playing on his television at home and made the data stream accessible over the Internet. 
 After years of consulting for big companies like Microsoft, the brothers decided to market their own product, a remote viewing gizmo. Building on their tech-world connections, they got enough interest and financing to start a small company, Sling Media.
 Making Blake's VCR-size contraption into a dependable and economically feasible box has not been easy, even with help from former clients like Texas Instruments and Microsoft. 
 The programming and design challenges led them to Bhupen Shah, a veteran of assembling teams of engineers in India for American businesses. The Krikorians and Mr. Shah liked each other's companies, ideas and styles so much that they merged. According to Jason Krikorian, the $249 Slingbox should be ready by June. 

Voodoo PC
 Four years ago, Ravi Sood was looking for a way out of the price wars over the bare-bones computers that his family's business in Calgary, Alberta, built. So he started designing ultrafast machines. To his surprise, the main market for these exotics turned out to be computer gaming enthusiasts. 
 Buying small quantities of the latest computing guts like video and sound cards and tuning the fastest new processors to the boiling point, Mr. Sood got speed. ''Now, we're the Ferrari of PC's,'' he said.
 Mr. Sood needed orders to increase production. He came to the show for connections. For leverage, he joined Nvidia, one of his processor suppliers, which had a giant booth with the latest video games ready to try and a row of Voodoo's flashy Rage f:5 computers (base price, $4,609), drawing the gamers he was hoping to impress.


GRAPHIC: Photo: THE HIGH-END ROAD -- Ravi Sood, near left, chief executive of Voodoo PC, promoting the Rage f:5, a powerful gaming computer, at the Consumer Electronics Show. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SMOKE DETECTORS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); HOME SECURITY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); PATENTS (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); SLEEP (70%); TOYS & GAMES (68%); COMPUTER GAMES (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%) Electronics; Company and Organization Profiles; Small Business; Smoke Detectors; Television; Computer and Video Games; Trade Shows and Fairs

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%) Kidsmart (Co); Sling Media (Co); Voodoo Pc (Co)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: Marty Katz

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (51%); CANADA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



470 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 621 words

PERSON: S. Stanley Kreutzer

HEADLINE: Stanley Kreutzer, 98, Author Of New York City Ethics Code

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
S. Stanley Kreutzer, a tenacious reform-minded lawyer who served as counsel to New York City and State legislative bodies and drafted a code of ethics for the city that became a model for municipalities across the nation, died on Saturday at Sterling Glen, an assisted living home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 98.
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Michael Shapiro, his grandson.
 In a career that spanned nearly 70 years, Mr. Kreutzer served as counsel and investigator for the State Assembly and the State Legislature's Commission on Ethics, for the New York City Council and the city's Board of Ethics, and for commissions on lobbying, crime, public health, Charter revision, the state judiciary, city-state fiscal relations and New York's bicentennial. 
 Mr. Kreutzer, who called himself an independent Republican -- ''nine-tenths independent and one-tenth Republican'' -- was also an adviser to elected officials, including Mayors Fiorello H. La Guardia, Robert F. Wagner and Abraham D. Beame. And he practiced law from 1929, when he graduated from St. John's University Law School, until about six years ago, when he retired.
 But he was perhaps best known as the principal author of New York City's code of ethics, which was adopted in 1959 after decades of influence-peddling, conflicts of interest, nepotism and other largely unpunished shenanigans, much of it greased by Tammany Hall, the powerful Manhattan Democratic organization run by Carmine G. De Sapio.
 The code established rigid standards of conduct for all city officials and employees. It prohibited financial or other personal interests that conflicted with the discharge of official duties; barred former officials from appearing before city agencies for two years on behalf of private interests they dealt with in office, and mandated fines, suspensions or dismissals for violators.
 ''City administrations change,'' Mr. Kreutzer said. ''But the fundamental concepts of ethics as written into law are ageless because they have inherent in them the object of government in our Republic -- to be fair to the people who serve and who are served by our municipality.'' As counsel to the board set up by the code, Mr. Kreutzer investigated scores of cases that further clarified murky ethical waters.
 Samuel Stanley Kreutzer was born in New York City on Jan. 24, 1907. After law school, he began a lifelong series of associations with political leaders and civic organizations to promote public welfare and good government. In the 1930's he joined the emergency unemployment relief commission and helped found the Fusion Party, which promoted La Guardia's reform candidacy.
 During World War II, he served with the Selective Service System, and later joined commissions to relieve postwar famine and aid Holocaust survivors. In the 1950's, he became a special assistant to the state attorney general, investigating corruption in Suffolk County, and was chief counsel to the New York City Council from 1957 to 1959.
 In Albany in the 1960's, as counsel to the Assembly and the Legislature's ethics commission, he drafted regulations that drastically cut patronage and established procedures for fair hearings on the questionable conduct of public officials. Asked whether his inquiries were partisan, Mr. Kreutzer said: ''When a fellow engages in any kind of government activity, there is no Republican way or Democratic way of doing a job. There is only the right way.''
 Mr. Kreutzer's wife, Corinne, whom he married in 1932, died in 2000. Besides his grandson Michael, of Sebastopol, Calif., Mr. Kreutzer is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Shapiro of Hillsborough, Calif., and Cindi Finlay of Paris, and another grandson, Andrew Shapiro of Santa Cruz, Calif.


GRAPHIC: Photo: S. Stanley Kreutzer in 1974. (Photo by Michael Evans/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); WRITERS (87%); CORRUPTION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); US SELECTIVE SERVICE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); HOLOCAUST (60%); WORLD WAR II (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (57%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (57%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); GRANDCHILDREN (56%); CANCER (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



471 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1907 words

HEADLINE: Doctors See a Big Rise in Injuries As Young Athletes Train Nonstop

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON; Bruce Weber contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A competitive swimmer since she was 7, Alex Glashow of Barrington, R.I., logged 8,000 yards a day in the pool, until her arms ached. She learned to dislocate one shoulder intentionally to ease the pain in the water, but after shoulder surgery and a year of physical therapy, Glashow quit competitive swimming forever when she was 15.
 Jeret Adair, a top young pitching prospect from Atlanta who started 64 games in one summer for his traveling baseball team, last year had Tommy John surgery, an elbow reconstruction once reserved for aging major leaguers. 
 Ana Sani of Scarsdale, N.Y., a 13-year-old budding soccer star, practiced daily until she tore the anterior cruciate ligament in her knee.
 Around the country, doctors in pediatric sports medicine say it is as if they have happened upon a new childhood disease, and the cause is the overaggressive culture of organized youth sports. 
 ''They are overuse injuries pure and simple,'' Dr. James Andrews, a nationally prominent sports orthopedist, said. ''You get a kid on the operating table and you say to yourself, 'It's impossible for a 13-year-old to have this kind of wear and tear.' We've got an epidemic going on.''
 Typical injuries range from stress fractures, growth plate disorders, cracked kneecaps and frayed heel tendons to a back condition brought on by excessive flexing that causes one vertebra to slip forward over another vertebra. Most are injuries once seen only in adults.
 Dr. Lyle Micheli, a pioneer in the field of treating youth sports injuries and director of the sports medicine division of Boston Children's Hospital, said that 25 years ago, only 10 percent of the patients he treated came to him for injuries caused by overuse. Back then, most childhood injuries were fractures and sprains. Dr. Micheli said overuse injuries now represented 70 percent of the cases he sees. In interviews with more than two dozen sports-medicine doctors and researchers, one factor was repeatedly cited as the prime cause for the outbreak in overuse injuries among young athletes: specialization in one sport at an early age and the year-round, almost manic, training for it that often follows.
 ''It's not enough that they play on a school team, two travel teams and go to four camps for their sport in the summer,'' said Dr. Eric Small, who has a family sports-medicine practice in Westchester County. ''They have private instructors for that one sport that they see twice a week. Then their parents get them out to practice in the backyard at night.''

Pushing Children to Overachieve
 Dr. Angela Smith, an orthopedic surgeon at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, said parents in virtually every sport were pushing their children to excess in pursuit of college scholarships or the dream of a professional sports career. ''The volume of training has increased beyond the maturing young body's ability to handle it,'' she said.
 Doctors lament the loss of what has become a cultural artifact: the playground athlete. Two decades ago, sports for children were often unorganized, with pick-up games common in schoolyards and community parks.
 ''Children might have played baseball, basketball and football all in the same day,'' Dr. Micheli said. ''This was good for their bodies, which developed in balance. Now young athletes play sports supervised by adults who have them doing the same techniques, the same drills, over and over and over.
 ''By playing one sport year-round, there is no rest and recovery for the overused parts of their body. Parents think they are maximizing their child's chances by concentrating on one sport. The results are often not what they expected.''
 In his office in Birmingham, Ala., Dr. Andrews hands the parents of new patients a piece of chalk and points to a blackboard in the corner.
 ''I say, 'Write down when your child started playing his sport, how many teams he's played for, what camps he went to, for how many years, what private instructors he's seen, what championships he won, what his stats were, all that stuff,''' Dr. Andrews said. ''Then I walk out of the room. I come back in and they've filled up the blackboard. They're proud.
 ''And I say, 'You all know why he's here seeing me?' And I point to the blackboard. That's when the light bulb goes off.''
 According to several pediatric sports-medicine specialists, not all parents -- and they come from all economic classes -- see the light so clearly. It is not uncommon for the damage done by an overuse injury to be irrevocable, and the doctor's advice is to quit the sport. 
 ''That's usually not received too well,'' said Dr. Michael Busch, an Atlanta orthopedic surgeon. ''The parents will ask if there isn't some kind of surgery that can be done, so their child can keep doing the things that brought this injury on in the first place. I explain that an operation might be necessary just to alleviate the pain and to set a course for normal everyday use again.
 ''To tell you the truth, the kids usually take it better than the parents. Many kids are relieved. They can be kids again.''
 Doctors are also seeing what could be called the Curt Schilling effect in their examining rooms. Schilling was the Boston Red Sox pitcher who underwent a radical medical procedure -- a ruptured tendon sheath in his ankle was sutured in place -- so he could pitch in the postseason last year.
 ''I recently had a mother ask me if there isn't some kind of shot or fix-it procedure I could do for her 11-year-old daughter's ankle so she could be ready for an upcoming regional competition,'' Dr. Smith, the Philadelphia orthopedist, said. ''I told her that if it were the Olympic Games coming up, perhaps we could treat this situation differently. But as far as I understood, her upcoming competition wasn't the Olympics.
 ''At this point, the daughter is giggling but the parent is in the corner crying. I said: 'This isn't Curt Schilling in the World Series. It's not worth not being able to run anymore for a plastic gold-plated medal.'''
 The doctors who treat young athletes said they were proponents of youth sports, which they said were vital to the health of America's children. Participation in sports should be encouraged, the doctors said, but with certain precautions.
 ''I agree there are more overuse injuries, but I am still more worried about the high rate of inactivity and obesity in children,'' said Dr. William O. Roberts, president of the American College of Sports Medicine. ''We need more kids to do a lot more and a few kids to do a little less.''
 It's also true that not all young athletes, maybe not even a majority, break down from overtraining even after years of rigorous workouts. But doctors warn that many young athletes will not complain about pain from sports because they believe it is just soreness, or part of the price for overachieving.

Learning to Play in Spite of the Pain
 ''My arm hurt for years but I never went to the doctor,'' said Jeret Adair, 16, the Atlanta pitcher, who underwent the surgery named for the Major League Baseball pitcher on whom it was first performed 30 years ago. The surgery involves removing a healthy tendon from one arm and inserting it into the other. Jeret had Tommy John surgery last year after the ulnar collateral ligament in his right elbow snapped in two as he was delivering a pitch. 
 ''You know, like they say, you play with pain. If you're a good pitcher on a team of 14- or 15-year-olds, you're going to be throwing too much. Everybody wants to throw their ace out there.''
 Jeret was one of 51 high school pitchers upon whom Dr. Andrews performed elbow reconstructive surgery last year, a tenfold increase from a decade ago.
 One approach to limiting overuse injuries involves training that is specially designed to prevent injuries.
 Vinny Sullivan, a certified strength and conditioning coach and director of sports performance at Forme Health and Fitness in Scarsdale, said he saw more than 300 young athletes a week in a program designed to reduce overuse injuries. Mr. Sullivan has his athletes do exercises to correct muscle imbalances brought on by overtraining in a single sport. He works on their flexibility, balance, and running and jumping biomechanics.
 Of special focus is teaching young athletes how to decelerate correctly, because many knee injuries result from a sudden stop or change of direction.
 Among Mr. Sullivan's pupils is Ana, the soccer player, who came for help as a 13-year-old after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in her left knee. The injury occurred without contact from another player as she was running down the field. She had recently stopped playing other sports to concentrate on her soccer.
 ''Ana is a phenomenal soccer player, but her hamstring muscles were much weaker than the rest of her leg structure,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''Her body hadn't developed anything but the muscles to play soccer.''
 After a 10-month rehabilitation, Ana returned to playing soccer -- on three teams at the same time no less -- and at 18, she just completed her first season at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass. She recently tore the meniscus cartilage -- which helps distribute body weight evenly -- in the same knee she hurt when she was 13.
 ''I don't know if it's a coincidence or not,'' said her mother, Ana Cristina Sani, ''but she hadn't been in her injury prevention program while at college, and that's when she hurt her knee again.''
 Dr. Micheli, of Boston Children's Hospital, and many of his colleagues said they believed that better coaching would help reduce overuse injuries among children.
 ''The coaches are volunteers and mean well, but they are not trained,'' Dr. Micheli said. ''And every five years, a new batch comes along and the problems go on unabated. We are vigorously promoting mandatory coaching certification programs where youth coaches can get the education they need to protect the children.
 ''I think town leaders will eventually say to soccer leagues, 'We'll give you the access to our fields but we want certified coaches.'''
 Dr. Andrews advocates a laundry list of changes. It begins with stopping year-round play in one sport. ''At least three months off,'' he said. For baseball and softball pitchers, he would also ban the radar gun.
 ''That thing has wrecked more arms,'' he said. ''I'm sick of seeing these kids being torn apart.''

Efforts to Reverse the Trend
 Next month, a public-service campaign to educate young athletes, their parents and coaches about overuse injuries will be started through a partnership of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons and the National Athletic Trainers' Association. The campaign includes a poster that shows a youth baseball team celebrating after a game with the headline: ''What will they have longer, their trophies or their injuries?''
 Alex Glashow still goes to the pool, helping out as a lifeguard. ''I can stay involved in other ways,'' she said. She tried diving, but that bothered her shoulder, too. She has recently devoted more time to another sport, skiing.
 Jeret Adair is tossing a baseball again and is hopeful about returning to pitching -- with a strictly enforced pitch count -- by this summer. He wants to pitch in college.
 ''I'm the living example of someone who did too much,'' Jeret said. ''I would tell young kids coming up now: 'Don't be such a hero. Take a rest.'
 ''I look back now at all those games I won when I was 14 or 15. They don't mean so much anymore. They weren't worth it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeret Adair, 16, started 64 games one summer for his traveling baseball team. Last year, he had reconstructive elbow surgery normally associated with major leaguers. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
Ana Sani recently tore the meniscus cartilage in the same knee in which she tore the anterior cruciate ligament five years ago. (Photo by C.J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. D7)
 Ana Sani, 18, a soccer player at Williams College in Massachusetts, is recovering from her second knee operation. She was 13 the first time. (Photo by C.J. Gunther for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS INJURIES (91%); BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SPORTS MEDICINE (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); JOINT DISLOCATIONS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SWIMMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ORTHOPEDICS (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (89%); BONE FRACTURES (89%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (88%); CHILDREN (88%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (77%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); PEDIATRICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EPIDEMICS (73%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (72%); SOCCER (71%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (60%) Athletics and Sports; Children and Youth; Sports Medicine; Athletics and Sports

ORGANIZATION: Boston Children's Hospital

PERSON: Bill Pennington; Lyle (Dr) Micheli

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



472 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: 13 Polk Awards Honor Journalists' Work

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Reporters who exposed the torture of Iraqi prisoners, perils on America's railways and inadequate care in veterans' hospitals, and others who covered the war in Iraq and upheavals in Haiti, were among the winners of 13 George Polk Awards for 2004 announced yesterday by Long Island University.
 Three reporters for The New York Times, two for The Associated Press and representatives of five other newspapers, two broadcasters and a magazine were cited for distinguished journalism in the tradition of George W. Polk, a CBS correspondent killed in 1948 covering the civil war in Greece.
 Seymour M. Hersh, an investigative reporter, won the magazine award for his accounts in the The New Yorker of the torture of Iraqis at Abu Ghraib prison by American personnel. The reports led to investigations and criminal trials. It was Mr. Hersh's fifth Polk -- his first was in 1969 for exposing the My Lai massacre in Vietnam -- making him the award's most honored laureate. 
 The Polk career award went to Bill Moyers, 70, who nominally retired last year after 54 years in journalism, including more than three decades as a commentator for CBS and PBS. While he gave up the PBS program ''Now With Bill Moyers,'' he plans to produce documentaries and to write a book about President Lyndon B. Johnson, for whom he was a special assistant and press secretary.
 Established in 1949 and administered by Long Island University, the Polk Awards are based on recommendations by a national committee of news executives, editors, reporters and journalism teachers, with final selections made by a jury of faculty members and alumni of the university. The awards will be presented at a luncheon at the Hyatt Regency Hotel on April 21.
 In war coverage, Dexter Filkins of The New York Times was cited for his reports on the eight-day attack on Iraqi insurgents in Falluja that left 51 American marines dead, 6 of them in Bravo Company, with which he was embedded. The jurors said his accounts of street-to-street fighting ''conveyed the hellish intensity of urban warfare.''
 Walt Bogdanich of The Times won the Polk Award for national reporting for ''Death on the Tracks,'' a series showing how railroads, despite hundreds of fatalities in accidents, evaded costs and regulations by manipulating evidence, government officials and public opinion.
 The award for military reporting went to Diana B. Henriques of The Times for articles on the fleecing of young soldiers by insurance and investment companies, a series that led to investigations and congressional hearings for legislative reforms.
 Paisley Dodds of The Associated Press was cited for foreign reporting ''at great personal risk'' for her dispatches from Haiti on the overthrow of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, including roles played by the United States and the Dominican Republic, and on floods that later devastated the country.
 Justin Pritchard, an Associated Press reporter based in San Francisco who specializes in immigration issues, won the labor reporting award for ''Dying to Work,'' an investigation of job-related deaths among Mexican workers in the United States.
 The television reporting Polk went to Diane Sawyer and Robbie Gordon of ABC News ''Primetime Live'' for ''Fighting for Care,'' which documented patient abuse and what judges called ''disgraceful conditions, inadequate care and gross mismanagement'' in the veterans' hospitals.
 Ellen E. Schultz and Theo Francis of The Wall Street Journal won the economic reporting Polk for ''Financial Surgery: How Cuts in Retiree Benefits Fatten Companies' Bottom Lines,'' which detailed deceptive corporate accounting practices. 
 John Hill and Dorothy Korber of The Sacramento Bee won the award for state reporting for articles showing how high-ranking officials of the California Highway Patrol who were close to retirement inflated their pensions by submitting dubious disability and on-the-job injury claims.
 The regional reporting award went to The Press Democrat of Santa Rosa, Calif., for ''Global Shift,'' a series by four reporters and a photographer portraying the human and economic toll of decisions by two employers in Sonoma County to export jobs abroad. Polk jurors called the eight-month investigation ''an ambitious undertaking for a 92,000-circulation daily.'' 
 Tim Novak and Steve Warmbir of the Chicago Sun-Times won the Polk for local reporting. Their series, ''Clout on Wheels,'' exposed a $40 million corruption scheme in which mobsters made payoffs to city officials to loot a municipal program that used rented dump trucks. 
 In sports reporting, Mark Fainaru-Wada and Lance Williams of The San Francisco Chronicle were cited for disclosing the use of steroids and other performance-enhancing substances by star athletes. ''Their relentless and revelatory coverage unearthed a national scandal,'' Polk jurors said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Moyers, 70, a former TV commentator, won a career award. (Photo by Gino Domenico/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (89%); TORTURE (89%); JURY TRIALS (88%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (79%); NEWS REPORTING (79%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); VIET NAM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



473 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; INNOVATORS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: A Nimble Newcomer in the Staid Old Furniture Industry

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA POSTREL

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
WHEN Bob Duncan was studying engineering management at the University of Texas in the mid-1980's, Japanese competition had American businesses terrified. ''There was great concern that Japan would eliminate the U.S. manufacturing base just totally,'' he recalled.
 To the confident young Mr. Duncan, however, Japanese manufacturing was not a threat but an inspiration. After graduation, Mr. Duncan worked for Andersen Consulting (now Accenture), teaching clients lean manufacturing techniques originally developed in Japan.
 Within a couple of years, he had an idea for his own company. He decided to do for leather furniture what Japanese companies had done for cars, steel and shipbuilding: shake up a staid, complacent industry by rethinking the manufacturing process. In 1990, with another Andersen consultant, Sanjay Chandra, as his partner, Mr. Duncan set out to turn this concept into a business, the Dallas-based American Leather. 
 Instead of making sofas in big batches, with each step handling a week's worth of material at a time, they would treat each order as a single batch and make it in a few days. Rather than segregating cutting, sewing and upholstering, they would organize the plant in smaller teams, called ''cells'' or ''minifactories,'' making it easier to spot quality problems and track a single sofa from start to finish. They would apply just-in-time techniques and keep the backlog to a week and a half, compared with the industry's six to eight weeks.
 With this process, Mr. Duncan figured, their company could give customers quicker turnaround and more choice. If they wanted a sofa in a color other than black, brown or burgundy, they would no longer have to wait months for container ships from Italy. They could pick from dozens of colors and count on delivery in 30 days.
 But raising money and selling furniture proved much harder than Mr. Duncan, now 41, expected. ''At 26, you just don't know,'' he said. ''You assume, Why couldn't you? It just seemed so obvious.''
 American Leather took more than a decade to hit $30 million in sales, not the projected three to five years. But the business was profitable by its second year, and today it is flourishing. ''American Leather has literally come from nowhere to be one of the most popular leather companies in the United States,'' says Jerry Epperson, a furniture analyst with Mann, Armistead & Epperson in Richmond, Va.
 The furniture company employs 390 people, up from 300 in mid-2003. It expects sales of about $68 million this year, up 15 percent from 2004. Last year's sales marked a 17 percent increase from 2003. After a slight dip in 2004, because of expanding operations, profit margins are as high as ever, said Mr. Chandra, the chief financial officer. 
 In January 2004, American Leather opened a $12 million factory and headquarters in the open countryside about 15 miles southwest of downtown Dallas. The plant can handle about $100 million in annual production, and it is built for easy expansion.
 The company's continuing success comes as the once-complacent industry struggles to survive the shock of low-cost competition from China. Three years ago, a standard leather sofa sold for around $1,300 at a midrange retailer like Rooms to Go. Today, that sofa sells for about $1,000, and, Mr. Chandra said, ''there is no bottom'' to the prices.
 Although American Leather's founders never thought prices could drop so far, the company's nimble manufacturing and dedication to innovation have given it a sustained edge.
 No domestic manufacturer can beat the Chinese on price, but no Chinese furniture maker can deliver a sofa in four weeks. ''The fact that you're across the ocean is adding a month to your lead time almost by definition,'' Mr. Duncan said.
 Nor do low-cost competitors offer as much choice. Like traditional American companies, Chinese plants run large batches with big backlogs. That maximizes economies of scale but adds weeks to delivery.
 American Leather feels the pressure, too, but its strategy has never been to compete on price. Rather, it wants to offer enough additional value -- in choice, turnaround time, quality and innovative design -- to justify a more expensive ticket. The complexity of that mission has grown exponentially. 
 ''What I'm most proud of is the fact that we still do ship in two to three weeks,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''In 1992, we had 10 models in the whole company. Every model had the same plastic leg on it. We had virtually no options. We had probably 25 different colors. And we shipped in two to three weeks.'' Visitors to the factory are often wowed by the laser-based ''nesting'' system that workers use to lay out patterns around the irregularities of cowhides or by the automated cutting systems that mean every piece is precise and no employee's hands come close to a blade. But what is most impressive about the plant's technology is that the right pieces get assembled into the piece of furniture using minimum time and material.
 Although production engineering is central to the company's culture and success, technical excellence is not enough. ''At the end of the day, you have to sell the stuff,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''You can have the coolest products. You can build it in 20 minutes and deliver anything you want. But if nobody buys it, it's irrelevant. As an engineer, the biggest thing I've learned in the whole process is how hard it is to sell things.''
 In 1997, he and Mr. Chandra brought in Cary R. Benson, now the company's chief marketing officer, as a third partner. That year marked a takeoff point. American Leather made the Inc. 500 list of the nation's fastest growing privately held companies, and marketing innovations became as important to its competitive identity as its manufacturing process.The company began addressing customers, rather than retailers, in its advertising. It adopted the tag line ''Seventy styles. Seventy colors. In your home in four weeks.'' It hired the star furniture designers Vladimir Kagan and Rick Lee to create signature models. It sought innovations, like unique recliner mechanisms, to add to its newly fashionable line.
 It also built relations with retailers by providing sales tools and training. To give its selection an eye-catching display in stores, it created a ''leather wall.'' The display's samples are big (14 by 12 inches) and hang face-out on removable dowels. The company broke industry custom and arranged the leather not by grade but by color. 
 ''The retailers love them,'' Mr. Epperson, the analyst, said. Each quarter, the company brings 50 to 70 store owners and retail salespeople to Dallas for two days of training called American Leather University, begun in 1999. 
 ''There are so many manufacturers that don't think about partnering as far as marketing education, and they do,'' said Connie Stevenson, who with her husband, Gary, owns Elan Contemporary Furnishings in Omaha. American Leather has become Elan's top vendor.
 For all its operational and marketing ability, what really distinguishes American Leather is its enthusiasm for continuous improvement and openness to new ideas. 
 This openness contrasts sharply with the traditions of the home furnishing business. Barbara Tiffany, a furniture designer, remembers a North Carolina furniture maker who told her, ''Well, if it was good enough for my daddy, it's good enough for me.''
 By contrast, Ms. Tiffany recalled the first time she met Mr. Duncan. She and her husband and business partner, Robert, had finished a series of demoralizing meetings with executives from major furniture companies at the High Point, N.C., furniture market. The couple were trying to license Mr. Tiffany's patented design for a sleeper sofa modeled on a platform bed. The Tiffany 24/7 avoided the sags, gaps and bars that make sofa beds notoriously uncomfortable. 
 This was their second time making the rounds, Ms. Tiffany said, and they were ''treated shamefully, embarrassingly.'' They kept their last appointment, with Mr. Duncan, only because they were already in North Carolina with their sample in tow.
 They sensed right away that Mr. Duncan was not from the stodgy, insular furniture business they had always known. He looked at the sleeper and said, ''O.K., we'll do it.'' Ms. Tiffany, expecting another rejection, kept talking. Only when he repeated himself did she realize they had made the sale.
 ''He got it,'' she said. ''He got it the minute we showed it to him. He understood the whole thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: JAPAN INSPIRED -- Furniture making at American Leather in Dallas. Top, Omar Gerson checks for quality. Above, Anh Ly sews a leather pattern. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE MFG (90%); FURNITURE MFG (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (84%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LEAN MFG (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); SHIPBUILDING (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%) Furniture; Company and Organization Profiles; Leather and Leather Goods; Furniture

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%) American Leather (Co)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: Bob Duncan; Sanjay Chandra; Virginia Postrel; Cary Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



474 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; NUTS AND BOLTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Need Focus? A Course Might Help

BYLINE: By LAURA RANDALL

 BODY:
WHEN Gloria Otten and Katherine Christensen met at a workshop on how to turn one's cooking skills into a business, both were looking for new work gigs. Ms. Otten had shut down her espresso-catering business when demand dropped after she moved from Seattle to San Diego. And Ms. Christensen was a retired lawyer who wanted to turn her hobby into a second-act career.
 They each worked as personal chefs for a while after taking the course, but found serving just one client limited. ''Both of us wanted a bigger business and didn't want to be caterers, so we put our heads together,'' Ms. Otten said. 
 So in 2003 they founded Dinner Studio (dinnerstudio.com), offering cooking sessions that allowed customers to pre-assemble a month's worth of meals in a professional kitchen.
 Six months later, Ms. Otten signed up for one-day seminars on accounting and marketing held at a small local college. She still uses some of the points covered in class. ''You get so caught up in the passion of what you're going to do that you forget to keep track of where you're at with the business,'' said Ms. Otten, 44. (Ms. Christenen is 58.)
 Increasingly, small-business owners are using colleges and government training centers to brush up on skills or learn new ones. When Ms. Otten opened her first espresso stand 20 years ago, she relied on how-to books to find her way. ''The library was my best friend,'' she recalled.
 Now colleges offer certification programs and dozens of noncredit courses geared toward small-business owners with titles like Budget Management for Wedding Planners.
 Some of the programs are part of the Small Business Administration's development centers, which provide free or low-cost counseling and training in partnership with colleges, vocational-technical schools and chambers of commerce. The S.B.A. program, with a $90 million annual budget, started with a few centers in 1980 and has grown to 63 main centers with 1,000 smaller branches.
 About 280,000 clients sought individual business counseling from the centers in 2003, while 446,000 took part in training through workshops or certification programs. ''Pre-business planning is probably the biggest training need that we see,'' said Antonio Doss, associate administrator for the centers.
 The courses also help would-be business owners from wasting time and money on a fleeting idea that is most likely to fail.
 ''What you'll find with entrepreneurs is that they often have a whole lot of ideas, a whole lot of energy and a whole lot of information, but sometimes they go into business and realize later that they really don't know human resources or profit-and-loss management or labor laws that well,'' says Debbie Trujillo, regional director of the Small Business Development Center at Southwestern Community College in San Diego County. ''That's where they get in trouble.''
 Classes on computer programming and information technology have seen their popularity wane as people become more technologically savvy on their own, Ms. Trujillo said.
 At Northern Virginia Community College outside Washington, demand prompted the school of continuing education to introduce its first certification program in small-business management this semester. The college has always offered noncredit courses in small-business topics, but layoffs at technology companies in recent years and the area's growing number of relatively young military and government retirees increased demand for training and led the college to start a formal program, said Sparkle Raymond, program manager for continuing education there. After completing eight core classes in subjects like management, marketing and employee benefits, and two electives, students receive a certificate of completion for a total of about $1,800.
 ''They want the credentials a certificate gives them without the A, B, C, D, F pressure'' or time constraints of a two-year master's in business administration program, Ms. Raymond said. 
 For Marvin Dennis, the owner of a custom cabinetry company in Oceanside, Calif., time and been-there-done-that concerns left him balking at the notion of going back to school when someone at a Chamber of Commerce gathering suggested he take an entrepreneurial training course. ''At the time, I thought, man, it's $395 and it's Wednesday night and that's my basketball night, and it's so far away. This is going to be a lot of work,'' recalled Mr. Dennis, who is 50 and has a bachelor's degree in political science.
 Then he lost his commercial lease and was forced to relocate to an unfamiliar area, and lost some customers. At that point, the course seemed like a better idea. Mr. Dennis completed the 12-week program and came away with a new business plan that, he said, better defined his responsibilities as an owner and helped him narrow his marketing strategy.
 Other entrepreneurs are motivated to sign up for classroom training by promises of easy loan qualification or private counseling sessions.
 In rural Imperial County, Calif., where unemployment hovers at about 20 percent (not seasonally adjusted), anyone who completes a training program through the S.B.A.'s small-business development center is eligible for a low-interest $3,500 loan, ''no questions asked,'' Ms. Trujillo said.
 In other areas, completing a seminar or series of workshops earns attendees one-on-one meetings with professional counselors. That is what prompted Karen Parry, who now owns an online furniture retailer, furnituregourmet.com, in Springfield, Mo., to sign up for a class on writing a business plan when she began thinking about opening the business, which she could run after retiring from her advertising sales job.
 ''The way they had it set up was, if you take this class, if you show this interest, then you can call us and make appointments and have that personal consultation,'' Ms. Parry said. ''It was like it got me into the club.'' 

The Next Level

NXLEVEL FOR ENTREPRENEURS. Run by a national network of chambers of commerce, government agencies, business incubators and other groups, NxLeveL is a 12-week training program aimed at small-business owners who want to improve or expand their companies. Topics include financial management, basic business skills and market research analysis. Other NxLeveL programs focus on new entrepreneurs or those in specific age groups or industries.
 For general information on small-business training and education programs available through the Small Business Administration, go to sba.gov/ed/index.html. LAURA RANDALL


GRAPHIC: Photo: TAKING NOTES -- Vanessa Baldwin, center, teaching students at Northern Virginia Community College how to be wedding coordinators. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); CATERING SERVICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (86%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (68%); BUDGETS (68%) Small Business; Vocational Training; Chambers of Commerce; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%) Small Business Administration

PERSON: Laura Randall

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



475 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Parting of the Ways in Platinum Privation

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:

Dear C:
 I hope you don't mind me calling you C, but ''Dear Continental Airlines'' would sound stuffy. Especially after all those miles we've racked up together over the years as we ''slipped the surly bonds of earth,'' to quote ''High Flight,'' the sonnet composed in 1941 by the Royal Canadian Air Force pilot, John Gillespie Magee Jr.
 You'll have to excuse the sentimentality, but I'm feeling a little reflective now that I must tell you that I have decided that we need to stop seeing so much of each other. 
 Yes, C, I need to see more of other airlines, while hoping to maintain a relationship with you as well.
 Oh, I know I strayed occasionally over the years on domestic flights when the situation arose, and I was shamelessly unfaithful on international flights. But our bond was strong. Your hub at Newark is my home airport, devoid of competitive options like Southwest or JetBlue. Nevertheless, you keep your Newark fares low, especially on the transcontinental and big-city-to-big-city routes that I fly most often.
 To the extent that you care, you should know that you brought this on yourself, though not without sufficient reason. Simple economics say that you need to start making money, and as I once told your former chief executive, Gordon Bethune, ''you sure ain't making much off of me.''
 In a cutthroat environment, I'm a typical business-flier skinflint, assiduously booking the lowest fare. But for years, I have flown the requisite number of miles with Continental -- about 77,000 last year, over 90,000 the year before -- to qualify for Platinum, the most elite status in your OnePass frequent-flier program. 
 Our relationship was not without antics. In late December, realizing I was about 10,000 miles short of the annual 75,000-mile benchmark for Platinum, I made a crazed 30-hour, 11,000-mile mileage run -- Newark to San Francisco to Seattle to Anchorage to Seattle to Houston to Newark.
 Making year-end mileage runs -- common behavior among elite-status members -- sounds nuts to those who don't understand the basic motivation. 
 Yes, it was all about the upgrade, C. Far more often than not in recent years, Platinum-level passengers flying on coach fares -- even the cheapest coach fares -- had become conditioned to expect that free upgrade to unsold seats in first class. On most flights on most major domestic airlines, the majority of the passengers in first class were elite-status upgrades from coach. 
 That is changing. Last month, when Delta Air Lines revamped its fares, which included sharp reductions in many first-class fares, rivals quickly followed. Suddenly, the game changed. As business travel spending picked up, more of those first-class seats were occupied by passengers paying (now reduced) first-class fares. Fewer upgrades were available.
 Then two weeks ago, C, you tightened the screws, changing your policy, effective next month, to assign higher priority based on fare paid within each status niche, and time of check-in. The Loyal Platinum Skinflint Brigade (J.Sharkey, recording secretary) began that long march back into coach.
 Last week, for example, I flew to Florida and back, both ways on capacious 757-200's with 12 first-class seats. Yet each way, I was ensconced in the dreaded middle seats, barely able to see the front of the cabin where I used to sit with the swells.
 This is not just a situation peculiar to Continental, which always gets high marks in consumer surveys for customer service. Across the domestic industry, unhappiness is spreading among members of elite-status programs. I single you out, C, because we were nearly inseparable. 
 Future columns will address the situation more broadly, and I invite frequent fliers to e-mail their comments. Some I've already heard from on this topic have told me to suck it up, that the upgrade gravy train had to end. But others -- who loyally flew all of those miles last year to hit their status levels under the impression that generous upgrade policies would remain -- are outraged that the rules are being rewritten, essentially without notice.
 Mark Bergsrud, your marketing director, did his best to explain to me what he believes has changed, and what has not changed between us. Yes, he said, fewer upgrades are available as more of those first-class seats are filled with paying customers ''as the fares change.''
 When seats are unsold, the upgrades are assigned to coach passengers based on their status level and fare paid, he said. 
 ''The system looks at all Platinums,'' he said, ''and Platinums will get the seats, but they will be processed in fare-bucket order, all the way down to the lowest fare.'' Assuming seats remain, gold-level and silver-level passengers get them, based on the same criteria.
 But full-fare economy passengers in any of the three elite-status levels get priority over all others for upgrades. In other words, a Silver-Elite passenger (25,000 miles a year) who's paid a full coach fare gets the first-class seat before a Platinum-Elite passenger (75,000 miles a year) paying a lower fare. 
 This is ''just our way of rewarding people who paid more for the ticket'' and of simplifying the confusing procedures for upgrades, Mr. Bergsrud said, adding: ''It is not an effort to drive more revenue, but it is an effort to recognize our best customers.''
 More on all of this later. But meanwhile, C, I did enjoy the ride. So here's looking at you, kid. Meanwhile, I'm opting out of the annual elite-status marathon and looking around the industry for alternatives who don't play games. This could be the start of a beautiful relationship, or two.

On the Road appears each Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (77%); AIR FORCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Continental Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (74%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%)

PERSON: Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (87%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



476 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Decline of Hardy Alaskan Fur Seals Baffles Experts

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Alaska 

 BODY:
On a blustery winter afternoon, a dozen male Northern fur seals huddle at a rookery on this island in the Pribilofs off southwestern Alaska. To look at them, aggressively sparring for territory on the rocks, it is hard to imagine that they are at the center of a baffling scientific mystery: why is this storied species beginning to disappear? 
 These eared, thick-furred and potentially massive seals -- mature males can weigh up to 600 pounds -- have a long and symbolic place in Alaska's history. Their soft and luxurious fur, the coveted prize during the huge commercial sea harvests that were legal here in the Bering Sea through the early 20th century, was once so valuable it drove Alaska's early economy. 
 The species rebounded briskly after the aggressive harvests of up to 100,000 seals a year were stopped in 1911; some commercial harvesting was allowed on and off until it was halted in 1984. Starting in the 1950's, for reasons that are unclear because the harvests by then tended to be fairly small, the seal population began a slow decline. 
 And lately they have been in a tailspin, declining at an alarming rate of 6 percent a year since 1998. From a high of more than 2 million in Alaska in 1948, their numbers have fallen to about 1.1 million -- 750,000 to 800,000 breeding each summer on this and nearby Alaskan islands. 
 ''We don't know why,'' said Dr. Rolf Ream, a government zoologist with the National Marine Mammal Laboratory, based in Seattle. ''We don't have a good grasp. We don't have the data to pinpoint it.'' 
 Theories abound. The seals' food supply, including pollock, anchovy, herring, rockfish and hake, may be in shorter supply. Or another species may be preying on the seals -- perhaps killer whales, which no longer have as many great whales to eat because of harvesting of those mammals. 
 So far, no one seems to be attributing the decline to the continuing but strictly controlled native Alaskan subsistence hunting of the seals, a dietary staple of the 800 or so Aleut Alaskans who live here and on nearby St. George, who are permitted to kill fewer than 1,000 juvenile male seals annually by clubbing them to death. Entanglement in fishing nets has also been suggested as a cause, but scientists say they doubt that entanglement alone could account for the recent population decline.
 On St. Paul, on a mid-December afternoon, the bull seals tussled playfully, flapping and shoving at each other, the burliest of them already trying to lay claim as ''beach master'' for next summer's breeding season, when this island and St. George will morph into the world's prime breeding ground for this newly threatened species, which gathers, flipper to flipper, on the edges, or haul-outs, of this island's shores. 
 The female seals, which generally leave the Pribilofs by early November to make their long winter swim to the North Pacific, were gone by then. But at least 39 females had splashed away from St. Paul and St. George with satellite radios glued to their waterproof pelts. Scientists were hoping they would bring back to these shores and seal haul-outs information about the species' decline related to their weight and diet.
 The Northern fur seal is showing population patterns similar to the sea lion, which also inhabited the Pribilofs before it almost disappeared and is now listed as an endangered species. That decline, more rapid and more drastic than the fur seals', has also been hard to explain. But with that population slightly stabilizing, researchers say federal funding, little of it earmarked until now for the study of fur seals, will this year become available to examine the cause of the decline of the seals.
 Scientists are measuring the fur seal decline by estimating, every other year, the number of pups born here in the Pribilofs, where about 60 percent of the world's Northern fur seals spend their summers breeding and basking at the rookeries, and where females typically give birth within 48 hours of their migration back to the Bering Sea.
 One of the challenges for biologists and others is receiving the public attention and the research financing for a species listed under the Marine Mammal Protection Act as ''depleted,'' rather than threatened or endangered. But scientists, conservation officials here on St. Paul and others who met in late January at a conference to discuss the fate of the seal say they are considering asking the federal government to list the Northern fur as endangered. 
 ''One of the problems is in rallying people to the cause is that there are still at least 800,000 seals out there,'' said Randall H. Hagenstein, director of conservation for the Nature Conservancy's Alaska field office, which helped organize the Pribilof Island Collaborative, the organization that met in January to discuss the status of the seal.
 ''You can see them and say, 'Oh my gosh, that's a lot of fur seals,''' he said. ''But consider that 50 years ago, people could have gone out and seen 2.5 million. It's the memory that doesn't exist.''
 Meanwhile, scientists mystified by the seals' decline and wary of the experience with the Steller sea lions, whose population plummeted in the late 1970's, say that unless the fur seal decline is quickly understood and stemmed, the seal, too, could become the subject of litigation and debate among environmentalists and the National Marine Fisheries Service like that surrounding the protection of the sea lion.
 ''We're trying to see if we can find any evidence for a lack of food in either the Bering Sea or the North Pacific,'' said Dr. Alan M. Springer, an oceanographer at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks, and a lead researchers on the study that placed the satellite transmitters on the female seals in November. ''If we can't find any evidence that food is limited, then it would be predation.''
 Referring to Steller sea lions, harbor seals and even sea otters, all species under threat of major decline, he added: ''If they keep going the way they have been and the way these others did, it's something that nobody wants to see repeated. It's got people really nervous.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times last Tuesday about a decline in the population of Northern fur seals misstated the number estimated to remain in Alaska. It is 750,000 to 800,000 (1.1 million is the worldwide estimate).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fur seals huddle on a rookery in the Pribilof Islands. For reasons unknown, their population has been in a steep decline, with about 1.1 million remaining in Alaska. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Map of the North Pacific highlighting the Pribilof Islands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (91%); MAMMALS (89%); FISHES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MAMMALOGY (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (76%); HISTORY (75%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (75%); POPULATION DECLINE (56%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Seals (Animals) and Sealing; Endangered and Extinct Species; Research; Migration; Reproduction (Biological); Fish and Other Marine Life

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%); BERING SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



477 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: In Fish vs. Farmer Cases, The Fish Loses Its Edge

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Legal fights over water in the West are as common as summer rains are rare. But a flurry of cases in California is attracting intense attention from scholars and state officials who see them as an extraordinary assault by agricultural interests on protections for endangered fish and other wildlife.
 In a series of lawsuits, including one to be argued before the United States Supreme Court on Wednesday, farmers and water districts are pushing property-rights claims to the forefront of the debate over how to divvy up water among farms, cities and the environment.
 In doing so, they are demanding compensation from the government for irrigation water diverted for environmental purposes, calling into question rules mandated by Congress under the Endangered Species Act that favor the protection of fish over the growing of food when water is in short supply. 
 It is an approach that has won sympathy from the Bush administration, which in December agreed to pay $16.7 million to farmers in Tulare and Kern Counties in one lawsuit over reduced water supplies. But the claims have alarmed California officials and many conservation groups, who fear that demands for payment for lost water could spread to other Western states and undermine protections for wildlife. 
 ''This is hugely important, a growing storm cloud over the American West,'' said Richard M. Frank, California's chief deputy attorney general, who oversees water litigation and who opposes paying farmers for water diverted to endangered fish. ''We will be seeing a lot more of these kinds of claims brought not only against the federal government but state governments.''
 William S. Smiland, a Los Angeles lawyer representing the farmers in the Supreme Court case, Francis A. Orff v. United States, said they and farmers in the other lawsuits had long gotten the short end of the stick and were only demanding their due.
 ''Nobody really cares about them,'' Mr. Smiland said. ''I don't mean to be melodramatic, but they have no political clout. So this is law against politics.''
 In the early 1990's, many farmers in the Central Valley had their irrigation water halved by federal officials because of severe drought. Flows that normally would have gone to crops were left in rivers for salmon and other fish struggling to survive.
 The water shortage took a financial toll on the farmers, whose fields extend across an arid ancient seabed that is the country's most productive farmland thanks to a system of dams and canals that brings snowmelt from distant mountains.
 Some of the farmers, including Mr. Orff of Fresno County, sued the federal government for damages. The case has undergone changes over the years, and on Wednesday the Supreme Court will consider only a narrow contract issue that focuses on whether farmers, rather than their irrigation districts, have legal standing to sue the federal government.
 But the reverberations of the case are considered much broader, because a victory for the farmers could open the door to many more lawsuits of the sort that led in December to the $16.7 million payment to farmers and irrigation districts in Tulare and Kern Counties, which also had their water supplies cut in the early 1990's. That settlement was the first by the federal government in a case in which farmers claimed their property rights had been violated by the taking of water to protect fish.
 Though not binding on other cases, the victory has emboldened farmers and water districts across the state, prompted similar lawsuits and panicked environmentalists and some state officials, who worry that hard-won federal protections for endangered species could be weakened. They fear that the government will not make use of protections included in the Endangered Species Act, because courts could make the protections too expensive by forcing the government to pay costly damages. 
 At the center of the dispute is whether farmers who have contracts through their irrigation districts to receive water from public works projects, like the federally owned Central Valley Project in the Orff case, should be paid when the water they were expecting is not delivered.
 The federal and state governments have long argued that water belongs to the public, not to the farmers, and can be used as the public dictates, in this case to save wildlife. But the farmers say their contracts for water deliveries are the legal equivalent of water rights, and as with any property right, the owner must be reimbursed under the Fifth Amendment if the government confiscates the property, something known as a ''physical taking.''
 The water cases come at a time when the property rights movement has made strides and is looking to expand. In November, Oregon voters approved a referendum that allows property owners whose investments have been hurt by environmental or zoning rules to get government compensation for the losses, or an exemption from the rules. And on Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments on whether private economic development that will add to the tax base of New London, Conn., is an appropriate ''public use'' for which a city can exercise its power of eminent domain to condemn property.
 Roger J. Marzulla, a Washington property rights lawyer who represented the farmers in the $16.7 million settlement, said that taking water from farms for fish was no different from taking someone's land to build a road. Since winning the case, Mr. Marzulla has filed similar claims totaling hundreds of millions of dollars on behalf of farmers in the Klamath River basin and farmers and other customers of the Casitas Municipal Water District in Ventura County and the Stockton East Water District in San Joaquin County. 
 ''If the government had to go around seizing people's homes and farms every time it wanted to build a road or hospital,'' he said, ''and everybody knew they weren't going to be paid, you would have shootouts.''
 But until a judge in the United States Court of Federal Claims sided with the Tulare and Kern farmers in 2001, resulting in the settlement in December, the case law was on the side of the government. The judge, John P. Wiese, concluded that the water cutoff amounted to a physical taking, not a routine regulatory action as federal officials argued. He set the damages at $27 million, which was reduced in a settlement.
 Judge Wiese's ruling was both unprecedented and hotly disputed, prompting a long list of government officials and agencies to recommend an appeal. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said the decision could lead to large payouts in other cases and a backdoor attack on the Endangered Species Act.
 ''With the federal government and the State of California facing continuing deficits, the government likely could not afford to provide the water the fish need,'' Ms. Feinstein said in a letter to administration officials.
 When the Justice Department, in consultation with the Interior Department, decided not to appeal the decision, many critics saw the political influence of conservative property-rights advocates. Mr. Marzulla worked in the Justice Department in the Reagan administration and has close ties to the Bush administration.
 ''It's a signal from the Bush administration that it wants to encourage these guys who are filing these cases,'' said John D. Echeverria, executive director of the Georgetown Environmental Law and Policy Institute, who has been involved in the Klamath lawsuit. 
 ''It was a very extreme decision ripe for overruling,'' Mr. Echeverria said of Judge Wiese's ruling, ''which made the decision of the United States to settle so troubling.''
 Bush administration officials say the settlement saved taxpayers money. The case had been in the courts for more than six years, the government had lost and by settling, the damages were significantly reduced.
 Sue Ellen Woolridge, solicitor for the Interior Department, said it was unlikely that Judge Wiese's ruling would affect other water cases, because although many seem alike, the legal circumstances are different.
 Nonetheless, Ms. Woolridge said she and other administration officials agreed philosophically with the farmers that all Americans, not just the few who lose water, should share the cost of protecting wildlife.
 ''If we have a public good which is reflected in the Endangered Species Act,'' she said, ''it's fair that the act should be supported by all taxpayers as opposed to having only particular individuals have to pay for that public good.'' 
 Joseph L. Sax, a professor emeritus of law at the University of California, Berkeley, who was counselor to Bruce Babbitt, a Democrat, when Mr. Babbitt was interior secretary, said the Bush administration had ''raised a pretty prominent flag of warning'' to backers of the environmental protections.
 ''I am not an alarmist,'' Professor Sax said, ''and I don't think it is appropriate to say this is the beginning of the end for regulation of water rights. But it really is a significant change.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Farms like this one near Mendota, Calif., get much of their water from the federal Central Valley Project, at the heart of a Supreme Court Case. (Photo by Associated Press)Map of California highlighting Central Valley: Some Central Valley farmers have lost half their water supply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FISHES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); IRRIGATION (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (79%); DROUGHT (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); DAMAGES (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONTRACTS LAW (74%); AGRICULTURE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); STANDING TO SUE (71%) Agriculture; Suits and Litigation; Fish and Other Marine Life; Endangered and Extinct Species; Law and Legislation ; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (83%)

PERSON: Dean E Murphy; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); WEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) Central Valley (Calif); California; Tulare County (Calif); Kern County (Calif); Western States (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



478 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Companies Fight to Ensure Coverage for Erectile Drugs

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Drug companies are strenuously resisting bipartisan efforts in Congress to prohibit Medicare from paying for Viagra and other drugs for erectile dysfunction.
 The issue of whether Medicare's new prescription drug benefit should cover such treatments is raising broader questions of ethics, economics, politics and health policy. 
 ''It's a huge issue,'' said Jonathan P. Weiner, a professor of health policy at Johns Hopkins University. ''We cannot pay for everything, but, unlike many advanced industrial countries, the United States has no explicit process to analyze the cost and value of medical goods and services.''
 The debate centers on whether a drug used to enhance sexual performance should even be eligible for Medicare coverage. Proponents of providing the coverage say that erectile dysfunction often has a physical cause and that treatment can significantly improve the quality of a man's life. Opponents say that Medicare, already growing at an unsustainable rate, cannot afford to pay for ''lifestyle drugs.'' 
 Administration officials said recently that, under their reading of the new Medicare drug benefit, they had to pay for drugs like Viagra, Levitra and Cialis when they were prescribed.
 This came as a surprise to many members of Congress. Their concern was heightened by new estimates indicating that the overall drug benefit would cost much more than they were told when they voted on the legislation in November 2003. 
 ''The thought of Medicare wasting vital resources on performance-enhancing drugs is unconscionable,'' said Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa. ''The focus should be on providing coverage for needy seniors.''
 Mr. King has introduced a bill that says Medicare cannot cover drugs ''prescribed for the treatment of impotence.''
 Representative James P. Moran, Democrat of Virginia, a co-sponsor, said: ''Here we are using money that could go to cancer, heart disease and other life-threatening illnesses and diverting it into the sex performance of men over 65. It's a scandal.''
 But Kindra L. Strupp, a spokeswoman for Eli Lilly & Company, which sells Cialis, says that 17 percent of that drug was dispensed to men over the age of 65. 
 ''Erectile dysfunction is not a trivial thing for men who suffer from it,'' Ms. Strupp said. ''We've heard from thousands of men that it can interfere with their intimacy, erode their relationships with their partners, damage their self-esteem and lead to depression.''
 In addition to Cialis by Lilly, Pfizer makes Viagra and GlaxoSmithKline markets Levitra. All three are pushing to ensure Medicare coverage and cite a number of reasons. 
 In an interview and an e-mail message, Andrew B. McCormick, a spokesman for Pfizer, said his company was focusing on three areas:
 $(6$)''Erectile dysfunction is a medical condition,'' recognized by doctors and by other health insurance programs.
 $(6$)When men seek treatment for erectile dysfunction, doctors often find evidence of underlying conditions like diabetes and high blood pressure that would otherwise have gone undetected.
 $(6$)Medicare drug plans can prevent abuse of Viagra and similar drugs by using ''restrictive formularies,'' requiring prior authorization, charging higher co-payments or limiting the number of pills that can be dispensed. Private plans sometimes cover the drugs, with those kinds of restrictions.
 In older men, erectile dysfunction is often caused by disease or surgical procedures that damage the nerves or obstruct the flow of blood.
 ''For a 70-year-old man with hardening of the arteries caused by smoking, for a man with diabetes or multiple sclerosis, or a man who has had pelvic surgery for cancer, there are clear medical indications for these drugs,'' said Dr. William F. Gee, chairman of the health policy council of the American Urological Association.
 But the drugs are promoted to a much larger audience. In November, the Food and Drug Administration sharply criticized Pfizer for television advertisements suggesting that Viagra could restore the sexual appetite of a man shown gazing into the window of a lingerie shop. ''The TV ads omit the indication for the drug, namely, treatment of erectile dysfunction,'' the F.D.A. said in a letter to Pfizer.
 Under the new law, drug coverage will become available in January 2006 to all 41 million Medicare beneficiaries, regardless of their income or assets. 
 The drug benefit will be delivered by private insurers, subsidized by the government. Under the law, insurers have to cover ''drugs in all therapeutic categories and classes,'' but not necessarily every drug in every class. ''Impotence agents'' are among the 146 categories and classes recommended by the United States Pharmacopeia, a private nonprofit group that advises the government.
 Since the creation of Medicare in 1965, the federal government has made coverage decisions about items and services including barium enemas, PET scans, mammograms and implantable defibrillators.
 In passing the Medicare bill, lawmakers said they wanted to get out of the business of making such decisions. But the case of Viagra shows that some members of Congress are unwilling to relinquish the responsibility.
 ''There's no reason we should be covering lifestyle drugs for senior citizens such as Viagra and Cialis,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''There's no reason a working American should have to pay for that type of drug if, for example, Bill Gates needs it when he retires.''
 Gordon B. Schatz, a Washington lawyer who specializes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement, said: ''In the past, Medicare officials rarely considered cost as a factor in national coverage decisions. But the drug benefit, the biggest expansion of Medicare since its inception, is forcing them to consider costs in ways they never did before.''
 For people without insurance, the retail pharmacy price for Viagra is typically $9 to $11 a pill. In 2001, the drug was added to the list of those covered by the Department of Veterans Affairs, which is entitled to certain discounts by law and negotiates additional discounts. The V.A. says it pays less than $5 a pill. 
 But the agency recommends that its doctors prescribe no more than four tablets a month. Veterans received 1.9 million prescriptions for Viagra through the V.A. health care system last year. 
 Drugstore.com, the online pharmacy, charges $90.99 for 10 pills. Prices for Levitra and Cialis are similar.
 The chief Medicare actuary, Richard S. Foster, estimates that Medicare drug plans ''can initially achieve an average cost reduction of 15 percent'' in 2006, by negotiating discounts and taking steps to manage use of various drugs. Savings will grow to 25 percent in five years, Mr. Foster predicts. 
 There are sharp divisions on the question of whether erectile dysfunction drugs are medically necessary.
 ''These are essentially lifestyle drugs,'' said Daniel J. Callahan, co-founder of the Hastings Center, a bioethics research institute in Garrison, N.Y. ''This is not a good way to spend a limited amount of money, at a time when other medical needs are greater. In many men, impotence is simply a function of age, though it may also be a result of disease.''
 ''A possible compromise solution,'' Mr. Callahan said, ''would be to set specific medical criteria allowing Medicare coverage for these drugs when erectile dysfunction can be traced to some identifiable medical condition other than age.''
 Robert P. George, a member of the President's Council on Bioethics, endorsed that approach.
 ''If impotence occurs in the normal course of a human life, as a consequence of aging, these drugs should not be covered,'' said Mr. George, a professor of jurisprudence at Princeton. ''But if there is a real health problem, I am inclined to say the drugs should be covered.''
 Health officials in Germany, Britain, Sweden and other countries have struggled with the same issue and made similar distinctions. 
 Arthur L. Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, said the issue had forced policy makers to ask, ''What emphasis will we give to quality of life as a goal for pharmacological intervention?''
 ''Erectile dysfunction drugs don't save anybody's life, but make life more meaningful,'' Mr. Caplan said. ''A fundamental principle of medical ethics is respect for the patient's right to self-determination. If you ask Medicare beneficiaries what they want, you will find that sexual function is high on the list. Many men would say that sexual dysfunction is just as important as loss of the ability to hear or to walk a mile.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Opponents of coverage call erectile medications ''lifestyle drugs.'' (Photo by Toby Talbot/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (91%); MEDICARE (91%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEN (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CANCER (74%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HEART DISEASE (62%) Sex; Viagra (Drug); Cialis (Drug); Levitra (Drug); Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Impotence; Sex

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (84%); PFIZER INC (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); LEL (LSE) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: STEVE KING (58%); JAMES P MORAN (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



479 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Drugs Like Viagra Spur Debate Over Medicare
Drug companies are resisting bipartisan efforts in Congress to prohibit Medicare from paying for Viagra and other drugs for erectile dysfunction.
 The issue of whether Medicare's new prescription drug benefit should cover such treatments is raising broad questions of ethics, economics, politics and health policy. [Page A12.]

Investors Wary of Russia's Oil Clout
The Kremlin has become one of the world's most important energy players, and that has made foreign investors wary. [C4.]

Winn-Dixie Files for Chapter 11
Winn-Dixie Stores, which operates about 920 supermarkets in the southern United States, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Stores will stay open, and the company has secured $800 million in financing from Wachovia Bank. [C4.]

Qwest Said to Weigh Options for Bid
Qwest Communications International spent the weekend weighing several proposals to make another $8 billion bid for MCI, executives close to the company said. [C8.]

Investment Turmoil in Latin America
In Latin American countries like Bolivia, a rejection of privatization and a plunge in foreign investment are roiling companies like utilities, and citizens are going without basic services like clean water. [A1.]

Nissan Names No.2 Executive
Nissan Motor named a 29-year company veteran, Toshiyuki Shiga, to the No.2 position in the company as its chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, prepared to take on the task of leading two major automakers at once. [Page C4.]

U.S. Action on Trade Is Urged
The European Union's chief trade negotiator, Peter Mandelson, urged the United States to reduce subsidies to its farmers and to address unsolved issues on the trade in services to avert a breakdown in global trade talks. [C4.]

A Pivotal Figure on Social Security
Representative Jim McCrery, Republican of Louisiana, has emerged, seemingly out of nowhere, as a central figure in the Social Security debate. [A12.]

Nielsen Promises Action on Data
Nielsen Media Research is taking significant additional steps to address complaints on how the company gathers its television ratings data. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

When Platinum Loses Its Shine
A frequent flier explains why he has decided to stop seeing so much of Continental Airlines. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C9.]

Financial Markets Reopen
Financial markets in the United States were closed for the Presidents' Day holiday. They reopen today.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''Happy Payday, Mr. President''The salaries of United States presidents have risen steadily over the years. Adjust them for inflation, however, and it is clear that some had quite a bit more buying power than others. Since 1949, presidents have received an additional nontaxable $50,000 expense account (not included in the chart below) primarily used to pay for goods or services not covered by other federal departments or agencies. Birthday cake, perhaps?Graph tracks salaries of presidents* (adjusted for inflation) since 1789.Some presidents listed by name include:JEFFERSONBUSHLINCOLNWASHINGTONT. ROOSEVELTCLINTONTAFT*Represent the number of men who served as president. Grover Cleveland, who served two nonconsecutive terms, is represented by one bar, an average of his salaries.(Source by Robert Sahr, Oregon State University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (79%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (79%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); ETHICS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (81%); WINN-DIXIE STORES INC (57%); CENTURYLINK INC (56%); WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (56%); WFC (NYSE) (56%); 7201 (TSE) (55%); UAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: JIM MCCRERY (58%); CARLOS GHOSN (50%); PETER MANDELSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



480 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Diplomacy, Served With French Fries

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
George W. Bush and Jacques Chirac have never been friends, but they are down-to-earth political realists who know when to hunker down and make peace.
 So they came together for a brief working dinner on Monday evening determined to set a new tone for the American president's second term.
 ''Every time I meet with Jacques, he's got good advice,'' Mr. Bush told reporters during a photo opportunity before dinner (even though it is no secret that Mr. Bush gets impatient with Mr. Chirac's lectures). 
 Mr. Chirac twice said that he had always enjoyed ''warm relations'' with Mr. Bush (even though he added, ''We didn't share the same view of Iraq'').
 The friendliest gesture during the dinner given by President Bush here was not political or personal, but culinary. After the lobster risotto with truffle sauce and alongside the filet of beef with bordelaise sauce was a side dish of potatoes. Mr. Bush announced that they were ''French fries,'' one participant said. No longer would thin slices of potatoes cooked in oil be ''freedom fries.''
 In a sense, there has never been a better time for the two presidents to do business. On issues like Syria and Lebanon, they have found common ground. In Afghanistan and the Balkans, both countries' troops work side by side.
 But beneath the warm smiles and expressions of 200 years of shared values, Mr. Bush and Mr. Chirac hold fast to vastly different visions of the world. Those visions complicate their joint approach to problem-solving.
 The recent elections in Iraq, for example, have prompted both men to focus on rebuilding the violence-wracked country. Mr. Chirac reminded Mr. Bush that France had made a formal $20 million offer to Iraq to train up to 1,500 police officers outside Iraq in an 18-month period, although it is embarrassing that the offer has yet to be accepted.
 But Mr. Chirac, like five other NATO leaders, long ago refused Washington's request to send French soldiers or policemen to Iraq as part of a NATO training mission.
 A senior French official told reporters in Paris on Monday that the French government had always taken that position, although in an interview in September 2003, Mr. Chirac said France would be willing to train Iraqi troops and police officers ''in Iraq or in the region or elsewhere.''
 To the frustration of Washington, France on Monday night remained the lone holdout among the 26 members of NATO, unwilling to contribute either troops or money to Iraq specifically under a formal NATO umbrella, a senior administration official said.
 But a French official challenged that interpretation, saying that France was contributing to the NATO mission in Iraq through its general contribution and that the criticism was unwarranted.
 The United States wants NATO to be able to make an announcement of a universal NATO effort in Iraq as the capstone of the alliance's summit meeting here on Tuesday.
 On Iran, surprisingly, there is some common ground. Mr. Chirac and Mr. Bush share the view that it is determined to develop a nuclear weapon and cannot be trusted. In their discussion on Monday evening, Mr. Chirac made clear that he is under no illusions about Iran.
 But France, along with Britain and Germany and with the support of the European Union, is engaged in delicate, even tortured negotiations to persuade Iran to give up its uranium enrichment activities in exchange for political and economic rewards.
 In a meeting with five American senators at Elysee Palace this month, Mr. Chirac confessed that he was more pessimistic than Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany that a permanent agreement with Iran was possible, said two participants in the meeting.
 Still, Mr. Chirac made clear to Mr. Bush on Monday night that the dialogue with Iran needed full international support, including that of the United States. France, like much of the European Union, has predicted that its initiative will fail unless the Bush administration is on board.
 On the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, the declaration by Mr. Bush of a renewed American commitment to restart the moribund peace effort has been warmly received in Paris, as has the Israeli government's plan to withdraw unilaterally from Gaza.
 But France disapproves of the American approach that demands that the Palestinians embrace democratic change before there can be a concrete plan to press Israel as well. And although Mr. Chirac did not raise the issue on Monday evening, he told Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her recent visit to Paris that there should be an international conference to jump-start the peace effort.
 The most promising area of cooperation between France and the United States is Syria and Lebanon.
 In their meeting on Monday evening, the two presidents committed themselves again to push Syria to withdraw its troops and intelligence services from Lebanon, a goal that has gained new urgency following the assassination of Rafik Hariri, A former prime minister of Lebanon.
 In his speech on Monday, Mr. Bush for the first time branded Syria an ''occupying power'' in Lebanon, certainly a ratcheting up of the debate. But France does not share Washington's desire to put so much pressure on Syria that it could produce unintended consequences. France is opposed, for example, to the imposition of economic sanctions against Syria.
 As expected, the two presidents disagreed Monday evening on the issue of the European Union's plan to lift the arms embargo on China this summer, a move that Washington opposes.
 ''France repeated once again that lifting the arms embargo on China was an appropriate measure, and that it should be accompanied by all necessary measures to apply it in a way that respects our security commitments,'' Jerome Bonnafont, Mr. Chirac's spokesman, told reporters.
 During a photo opportunity, Mr. Bush refused to be pinned down on whether relations had improved to the point where Mr. Bush would be inviting Mr. Chirac to the United States or even to Mr. Bush's ranch in Texas.
 ''I'm looking for a good cowboy,'' Mr. Bush joked, dodging the question. He did not say whether he considered Mr. Chirac a cowboy. Mr. Chirac did not seem to get the joke.
 However, Mr. Chirac, a former agriculture minister, prides himself as an expert on cows. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MILITARY TRAINING (69%) United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (92%) Elaine Sciolino; George W (Pres) Bush; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); BELGIUM (52%) France

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



481 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Said to Be Willing to Resume Talks

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, has told a Chinese envoy that he would be willing to resume diplomatic negotiations over his country's nuclear program, but only when ''conditions are ripe,'' according to state media reports in China and North Korea.
 Mr. Kim also said North Korea would return to the talks only if the United States showed ''sincerity.'' 
 Mr. Kim's seemingly softer stance, if characteristically vague and open ended, was taken after North Korea jolted diplomatic efforts this month by announcing for the first time that it already possessed nuclear weapons and would not return to disarmament talks.
 In a meeting on Monday with a senior Chinese official dispatched to Pyongyang, Mr. Kim reportedly said North Korea remained committed to the continuing six-nation negotiations organized by China to defuse the nuclear crisis. 
 ''The D.P.R.K. has never opposed the six-party talks, nor will it withdraw from the talks,'' Mr. Kim said, referring to the acronym for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
 His comments, reported Tuesday morning in China's and North Korea's official media, were made in discussions with Wang Jiarui, a senior Chinese envoy. Mr. Wang also brought a personal message from President Hu Jintao emphasizing the need for a peaceful solution to the nuclear problem and a resumption of talks. 
 The unpredictable behavior of the North has put China in a difficult position, as it remains North Korea's principal ally and economic sponsor yet also wants a nuclear-free and stable Korean peninsula. The previous rounds of the six-nation talks, for which China has been the host, have brought little tangible progress.
 Earlier this month, North Korea's announcement that it would not return to the talks surprised American officials. Two delegations of American lawmakers visited North Korea in January and said they believed that the country was ready to resume negotiations.
 Perhaps signaling that North Korea was now more amenable to returning to the table, Mr. Kim reportedly told Mr. Wang that he favored a nuclear-free Korean peninsula.
 ''He said that the D.P.R.K. would as ever stand for the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and its position to seek a peaceful solution to the issue through dialogue remains unchanged,'' Mr. Kim said, according to the North's official Korea Central News Agency.
 The official report added that North Korea ''has never opposed'' the six-nation talks organized by China. ''We will go to the negotiating table anytime if there are mature conditions for the six-party talks,'' he said, adding that he hoped ''the United States would show trustworthy sincerity,'' according to a text released by the North Korean news agency.
 Left unclear is what North Korea considers to be evidence of American sincerity. North Korea has repeatedly accused the United States of hostile behavior, even as the Bush administration has softened its language in recent months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); DISARMAMENT (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (92%); HU JINTAO (78%) Jim Yardley; Wang Jiarui; Hu Jintao (Pres); Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%) North Korea; China; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



482 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Urged to Act Quickly on Farm Aid

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
The European Union's chief trade negotiator, Peter Mandelson, urged the United States on Monday to reduce subsidies to its farmers and to address unsolved issues on the trade in services to avert a breakdown in global trade talks. 
 Ahead of a meeting with President Bush on Tuesday, Mr. Mandelson said the latest round of trade talks, begun in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, are at a crucial stage. He warned of a ''serious potential breakdown'' if rapid progress is not made in the coming months. 
 In that direction, he also urged the United States to name a replacement quickly for Robert B. Zoellick, the former trade representative who was named deputy secretary of state. On Friday, the White House named Peter F. Allgeier, a deputy trade representative, as acting trade representative.
 Last year, the European Union made a promise to scrap its $3 billion in farm export subsidies, if it were matched by the United States. The United States later appeared to match it, but its pledge turned out to contain many conditions and was to be carried out over a long period of time, in contrast to the Europeans' clear commitment. President Bush did, however, propose smaller reductions in farm subsidies in his recent budget. Farm subsidies distort trade by pushing down prices around the world.
 Europe can do more to ensure the success of the global trade round, Mr. Mandelson said, but he urged Europe's trading partners, particularly the United States, to help. ''One area where America can contribute is by raising comfort levels over its farm bill and its reform,'' he said. The European Union, he added, ''won't be the sole banker of this round'' of trade talks. 
 In a recent letter to members of the World Trade Organization, Mr. Mandelson warned that failure to agree on how to treat trade in services, as opposed to manufactured and farm goods, would ''spark a crisis in the Doha round.''
 President Bush said in a speech in Brussels Monday that the United States would work to reach agreement on the Doha talks. Mr. Mandelson welcomed those remarks, but urged concrete action from the United States. In particular, the lack of a new trade negotiator raises concerns in Europe that trade is not a priority to the administration.
 ''We need a good replacement for Zoellick as soon as possible,'' Mr. Mandelson said, adding that progress at this ''crucial'' stage in trade talks would be hard without one.
 Europe and the United States will not be discussing their dispute over official subsidies to Airbus and Boeing on Tuesday, but in a brief remark Mr. Mandelson warned that Europe's patience was limited. 
 At the end of last year, the two sides agreed not to file formal complaints against each other at the W.T.O. for three months, to try to resolve the issue. Mr. Mandelson warned that the European Union would not be able to extend talks ''much beyond the three months.'' 
 Mr. Mandelson also said he wanted Europe to use trade to help build peace and stability in Israel and the occupied territories as well as throughout the region. 
 He said Europe was committed to lifting an arms embargo it imposed on China after the massacre of protesters in Tiananmen Square in 1989. ''Europe should join America and Japan in addressing the security needs in East Asia, in the wake of lifting the arms embargo on China,'' he added.
 The European Union would also support Ukraine's efforts to join the World Trade Organization, Mr. Mandelson said. ''It is realistic for Ukraine to join the W.T.O. by the end of this year,'' he said. ''They are on course and there is a real prospect of very close economic relations between Ukraine and the E.U.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Feb. 22 about an appeal by the European Union's chief trade negotiator, Peter Mandelson, for Washington to act quickly on farm subsidies misstated the timing of an agreement by the United States and Europe not to sue at the World Trade Organization over subsidies to Airbus and Boeing. It was in mid-January, not at the end of last year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Mandelson, the European Union's top trade negotiator, at a meeting of ministers in Davos, Switzerland, last month. He warned of a ''potential breakdown'' in global trade talks if rapid progress is not made. (Photo by Pierre Verdy/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (93%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Crop Controls and Subsidies

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (50%); BOEING CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) European Union

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (79%) Peter Mandelson; George W (Pres) Bush; Paul Meller; Robert B (Deputy Sec) Zoellick

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); QATAR (91%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



483 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Citywide; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: A Cuban Revolution, in Reading

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
With all the shirts adorned with the solemn face of the Argentine-born revolutionary Che Guevara being sold in the city's souvenir shops, one would think he had once adopted New York and not Cuba as his home. That thought -- not to mention that face -- puzzles some Latins in Manhattan whose families had no choice but to leave Havana after the Cuban revolution.
 More than 45 years later, these exiles are still here, Fidel Castro is still there, and Che is all over as fashion statement. But a group of these Cuban-Americans -- whose politics range from liberal to conservative -- decided to make their own statement. At the beginning of this year, members of the Cuban Cultural Center, an arts group that usually sponsors exhibitions and concerts, adopted an independent library in Cuba. 
 They chose one in Las Tunas, Cuba, the Felix Varela Independent Library, which is named for a Cuban priest famous for his work for immigrants and the Roman Catholic church in Lower Manhattan in the 1800's. The library itself, like some 100 others that have been founded since 1998, offers Cubans an alternative to the official media or state-run libraries. They carry newspapers and magazines from around the world or books considered taboo by the regime -- like ''Animal Farm'' by George Orwell.
 ''I know firsthand what it is not having something interesting to read,'' said the jazz saxophonist Paquito D'Rivera, who left Cuba in 1980 and who voted to adopt the library. ''I know what it is like to have to hide to read something that the government calls subversive.'' 
 Almost two years ago, about 11 independent librarians in Cuba were among 75 dissidents, journalists and others arrested and given prison sentences of up to 28 years for essentially collaborating with enemies of the state. Most are still in jail, despite an international outcry.
 Although New York is home to magnificent libraries, world-class publishers and fierce champions of free expression, the cultural center is the only group in the city so far to adopt an independent library. They hope their action will send a dual message. 
 ''It's not just about sending whatever books we can, but we want the people in Cuba to know they are not alone and that someone here recognizes what they are going through,'' said Rafael Pi Roman, an anchor on Channel 13 who belongs to the cultural group. ''The dilemma is, we are doing this in a city where people have too often seen Fidel Castro as a romantic figure.''
 The main advocate for the independent libraries is Robert Kent, a reference librarian at the New York Public Library (whose gift shop drew exile protests last year for selling watches emblazoned with Che's face). He visited Cuba often in the 1990's, and began taking books there, ultimately with the aid of some exile organizations. His work recently led the Cuban government to accuse him of being ''Roberto X,'' a spy conspiring to assassinate a high-ranking official. 
 ''I'm still trying to figure out who's cashing all my C.I.A. paychecks,'' he said jokingly. 
 He is earnest, however, in insisting that librarians must defend intellectual freedom or risk tarring their reputation. He and his supporters hope to persuade members of the American Library Association, a national group whose members issued a statement last year that expressed ''deep concern'' over the dissident arrests as well as over the United States embargo against the island. While the group said the reasons for and conditions of the dissidents' detention should be fully investigated by human rights investigators, it did not urge the dissidents' immediate release.
 ''You don't throw people in the slammer for expressing ideas,'' said John W. Berry, the chair of the A.L.A.'s international relations committee. ''In this case it was complicated by Cuban law and the notion that some of the dissidents were accused of accepting money and material from the U.S. government in an effort that, in the Cuban government's mind, was seen as undermining their government.''
 Mark Rosenzweig, a library association member who directs the Reference Center for Marxist Studies, an archive of Communist Party documents, said those arrested were political partisans in cahoots with the United States government.
 ''These people were caught up in an unfortunate affair set up by the regime change experts in the United States,'' said Mr. Rosenzweig, whose archive is in the same West 23rd Street building as the Communist Party USA. ''I can't say they got what they deserved, but they ended up violating the laws of the Cuban state. They were tried in trials which to the best of my knowledge conformed to the principles of Cuban legality.''
 Human rights groups like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch -- which for years have been denied entry into Cuba -- have no doubts about what happened in 2003 and have repeatedly called for the release of people they consider prisoners of conscience. But they know that any criticism they make of the Cuban regime will be countered by praise for Cuba's gains in health and education.
 ''Cuba continues to violate the fundamental civil and political rights of a good many of its citizens,'' said William F. Schulz, the executive director of Amnesty International USA. ''Yet there is considerable ambivalence about Cuban political prisoners in general from those who are often traditionally advocates for human rights victims.''
 The members of the Cuban Cultural Center have encountered those attitudes. Pablo Medina said that until recent years he faced a frustrating response at the New School University, where he teaches creative writing. ''The attitude there, a place which is traditionally known as a neo-Marxist enclave, was a reticence to look at the Cuban question,'' he said. ''It was difficult to open people's eyes or get anyone to listen to you.''
 He said the arrival of former Senator Bob Kerrey as university president in 2001 signaled a shift at the college, which in the 1930's became a haven for European scholars fleeing totalitarian regimes. 
 ''The response from others used to be 'I don't know what is happening' or that economically the Cuban people were better off,'' Mr. Medina said. ''But after the dissident arrests in 2003, I got a call from Kerrey asking what he could do. So we gave the University in Exile Award to five Cuban dissidents.'' 
 Some members of the cultural group think that as more people in traditionally liberal circles begin to see what is happening in Cuba's dissident movement, they will realize that the idea of opposition to Mr. Castro goes far beyond old stereotypes of right-wing tropical exiles screaming for the cameras. The group itself is nonpartisan, and its members range from liberal to conservative. 
 ''I have no idea what the politics are of anybody is in this room,'' Mr. Pi Roman said. ''But none of us would say there should be human rights for Cuba but not for those people who are on the other side. None of us would have supported apartheid. One thing is sure: There is no hypocrisy. If you are for human rights for some, you have to be for human rights for all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Don Jose de la Luz y Caballera Library in Santiago, shown in 2001, is an alternative to the state-run libraries in Cuba. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
A group that adopted a Cuban library: from left, Manuel Castedo, Rafael Pi Roman, Iraida Iturralde, Pablo Medina, Robert Kent and Paquito D'Rivera. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Fernando Mexidor, 36, has been the manager of the Felix Varela Independent Library in Las Tunas, in eastern Cuba, for the last five years. (Photo by Jorge Rey/World Picture News for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (88%); LIBRARIANS (88%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); WRITERS (73%); RELIGION (72%); JOURNALISM (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); SENTENCING (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%); RICK PERRY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



484 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
NESVIG, TIMOTHY WILLEM

 BODY:
 NESVIG--Timothy Willem, of New York City, died February 8, 2005, at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, CA, after a courageous 18-month battle against lymphoma. The disease overcame him, but never defeated him. 
He was 30 and lived in New York City. Tim was an account executive at ESPN/ABC Sports Customer Marketing and Sales in New York. Previously, he worked as a media supervisor at Carat, NY, and a media buyer at DDB/Needham, NY. Tim received a bachelor's degree in economics from Bucknell University, where he also captained the water polo team, receiving All-America, as well as Academic All-America honors in that sport. In 1996, he received the Christy Matthewson Award as Bucknell's outstanding male athlete. Tim was born October 23, 1974, in Santa Monica, CA, and attended the Greenwich, CT, public schools, graduating from Greenwich High School in 1992. He was a four year varsity letterman in swimming and won Connecticut All-State swimming honors in two events. He captained the Greenwich High water polo team and won Eastern Interscholastic and High School All America recognition. As an adult, he became an avid golfer and was a member of the Innis Arden Golf Club in Old Greenwich, CT. Tim is survived by his parents, Jon and Hanneke Nesvig, of Riverside, CT, and two sisters, Mieke and Carrie Nesvig, both of New York City. A memorial service will be held Monday, February 28, 4:30pm, at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th St, New York. The family requests donations be made to the Tim Nesvig Fellowship for Lymphoma Research, City of Hope Cancer Center, c/o Kathleen Kane, 1055 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 1200, Los Angeles, CA 90017. Contributions are tax-deductible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WATER SPORTS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS (90%); WATER POLO (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LYMPHOMA (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ATHLETES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); ETHICS (74%); ONCOLOGY (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABC SPORTS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CITY OF HOPE (84%); BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



485 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Bush Cautions Russia On Democratic Reforms
President Bush warned Russia that it ''must renew a commitment to democracy and the rule of law,'' but said he believed that the nation's future lay ''within the family of Europe and the trans-Atlantic community.'' Mr. Bush was speaking at the start of a four-day trip aimed at building a new relationship with Europe. A1

Recruiting Gays to British Navy
Five years after Britain lifted its ban on gays in the military, the Royal Navy announced that it had partnered with a gay rights group to begin actively encouraging gays to enlist. A1

Afghan Standards Lag Behind
Three years after the United States-led war there, Afghanistan ranked 173rd of 178 countries in the United Nations 2004 Human Development Index, according to a new report. A3

3 Journalists Flee Zimbabwe
Three reporters for major international news organizations have fled Zimbabwe after police searched their offices and threatened to arrest the three for espionage and slandering the state. A3

Attackers Changing in Mosul
Militant Islamist groups that originated in Iraqi Kurdistan are responsible for most of the attacks now taking place in the insurgent stronghold of Mosul, while activity by nationalist insurgents linked to the former government has slowed there, senior Kurdish officials say. A9

Palestinians Released in Israel
Israel freed 500 Palestinian prisoners, the latest good-will gesture intended to strengthen a truce that has largely been holding. A7

The Same Promise From Syria
Syria repeated longstanding promises to withdraw its troops from Lebanon, as tens of thousands of people marched through the streets of Beirut in the largest anti-Syrian protests since the killing a week earlier of the former prime minister. A7

NATIONAL A10-15

Rains Cause Deaths In Southern California
A long weekend of drenching rain left Southern California with flooded houses, washed-out roads and cascading mud, and caused the deaths of at least three people, one of them a 16-year-old girl killed by a boulder that smashed into her bedroom. A10

Land Dispute in Nevada
Nevada's Bureau of Land Management and a family of Paiute Indians are debating the rights to 160 acres because the family's patriarch neglected to have an official witness sign the deed to his homestead 60 years ago. A10

Medicare Coverage Debate
Drug companies are strenuously resisting bipartisan efforts in Congress to prohibit Medicare from paying for Viagra and other drugs for erectile dysfunction. A12

Water Battles in the Court
A flurry of cases in California involving water disputes are attracting attention from scholars and government officials who see them as an extraordinary assault by agricultural interests on protections for endangered fish and other wildlife. A15

Minnesota Plays Poker Politics
As televised tournaments make poker ever more popular and mainstream, Minnesota is one of at least half a dozen states grappling with a new phenomenon: poker games with little or no stakes. State lawmakers are considering a bill that would explicitly legalize Texas Hold'em, but not other forms of poker, so long as prizes do not top $200. A1

Social Security Point Man
Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana has gone from being a little-known lawmaker to a central figure in the Social Security debate after being tutored on the finer points of President Bush's plan by four emissaries from the White House, including the new director of the president's National Economic Council. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Budget Proposes Halt In Housing Aid for Disabled
The Bush administration is proposing to stop financing the construction of new housing for the mentally ill and physically handicapped as part of a 50 percent cut in its housing budget for people with disabilities. B3

Senator's Job Rating Rises
Recent polls have shown that Hillary Rodham Clinton, the junior senator from New York, may have turned a corner politically, sharply reducing the number of voters in the state who harbor negative views of her. B1

Profits for Conversion
As it seeks to close a $4.15 billion budget gap and meet the state's growing health care, education and transportation needs, the Pataki administration is hoping to tap into a huge pot of money -- more than $2 billion -- by converting the HIP Health Plan into a for-profit company. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B10

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-10

Play to Bypass Broadway
''Hurlyburly,'' the revival of David Rabe's portrait of 80's excess, is transferring to a new Off Broadway theater on West 37th Street, outside the Theater District. E1

OBITUARIES B9

Robert R. Merhige Jr.
Retired federal district judge who ordered the desegregation of many Virginia school districts, he was 86. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Novartis to Buy Hexal
Novartis, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant, said it planned to buy Hexal of Germany and its affiliate Eon Labs of New York for $8.4 billion in cash, creating the world's biggest maker of generic drugs. C1

Lawsuits and Medical Costs
President Bush has assailed malpractice lawsuits as a primary cause of rising medical expenses, but government and industry data indicate that legal costs may not be at the root of the recent increase in malpractice insurance premiums. C1

Deal in Works for Weinsteins
Harvey Weinstein is expected to meet this week with executives for the Walt Disney Company for a final round of negotiations that would allow him and his brother to leave Disney when their contract expires, according to people involved in the negotiations. C1

Business Digest C1

Small Business G1-11

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Tackling election reform; children and AIDS; post-scream strategizing; Francis X. Clines on how Pale Male and flocks of others fly freely for their annual census.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E6
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); MEDICARE (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (75%); NAVIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); WATER RIGHTS (74%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (74%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); WRITERS (68%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); ESPIONAGE (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); WILDLIFE (61%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (61%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (60%); FISHES (60%); POKER (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%) EUROPE (93%); SYRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



486 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: In Eye of Social Security Storm, a Quiet Power Broker

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
When Representative Jim McCrery raised questions about President Bush's plan to overhaul Social Security, the White House quickly put the squeeze on him. Four of the president's men descended on Capitol Hill to pay a visit to Mr. McCrery, an unassuming Louisiana Republican, surrounding him with charts and figures in a fevered effort to get him to endorse the company line.
 It worked -- sort of. Mr. McCrery, the chairman of House subcommittee on Social Security, still says the plan will be a tough sell on Capitol Hill. But, in a subtle shift that mollified the people at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, he is now careful to add that Congress should give it a chance.
 ''I still think it's going to be difficult,'' Mr. McCrery said last week, reflecting on the re-education session. ''But we ought to shop it around.'' 
 The visit from White House officials, led by Allan B. Hubbard, the new director of President Bush's National Economic Council, is testimony to the growing influence of Mr. McCrery, a little-known lawmaker who has emerged, seemingly out of nowhere, as a central figure in the Social Security debate. 
 Soft-spoken and bespectacled in a gray pinstriped suit, with a wry sense of humor that slips out when people least expect it, he sometimes gives off the air of an actuary or an academic, and seems ill-suited to the back-slapping world of the Capitol. His home state, Louisiana, has a long history of colorful politicians, but Mr. McCrery is not one of them.
 ''Boring,'' he said drolly, when asked what word most people would use to describe him.
 ''He's gray and like a book,'' said Buddy Roemer, the former Louisiana governor who once served in Congress, where he employed Mr. McCrery as an aide.
 Yet what he lacks in flamboyance, Mr. McCrery makes up for in ambition. At 54, he has spent 16 years in Congress mastering the intricacies of policy and building alliances with the powerful. He is the most trusted lieutenant of Representative Bill Thomas, the mercurial chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, who will have a huge say over Social Security legislation. With Mr. Thomas as his mentor, Mr. McCrery has quietly worked his way into the right place at the right time. 
 Now he is there -- the chairman of the Social Security panel, in a year when Social Security is the hottest issue in town -- and people in Washington, from reporters to lobbyists to the occupant of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, are hanging on his words.
 He is not certain he enjoys it.
 ''It's an interesting phenomenon,'' he said on being asked whether he felt as if he was being watched. ''It's one I've felt, and it's obviously part of my being during the day as I go through the day. But I haven't really just sat and said, 'Hmmm, all these people are watching me.'''
 Yet they are. 
 ''Chairman McCrery is very important to the effort,'' Trent Duffy, a spokesman for President Bush said, shortly after the White House sent Mr. Hubbard to see Mr. McCrery. ''He has been down here on the president's invitation several times.''
 Before the meeting, Mr. McCrery worried aloud that Mr. Bush's plan to allow younger workers to divert payroll taxes into personal retirement accounts would give Democrats and AARP, the lobbying group for older Americans, an opportunity to attack Republicans as trying to undermine the Social Security trust fund. After the meeting, he emerged to tell reporters that he was ''convinced the president's approach is worth pursuing.'' ''Flippity-floppity,'' the journalist Joshua Micah Marshall crowed, writing on his Web log. 
 ''It shows how difficult it is for a Republican tied into this administration to be independent,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan.
 Howard Wolfson, a Democratic strategist, said, ''It's good news for Democrats that the Republicans have to spend so much time shoring up Jim McCrery.''
 Mr. McCrery insists that he did not flip-flop. ''I was being as honest as I could be,'' he declared, in his usual even-tempered way, adding that as an ardent proponent of personal accounts, he did not need shoring up. But with Democrats holding fast against Mr. Bush's proposal, and the Republican rank and file sounding a bit nervous, the White House knows it cannot afford to lose Mr. McCrery. 
 ''He's the one Thomas listens to,'' said John B. Breaux, a former Democratic senator from Louisiana. 
 And Mr. McCrery cannot afford to lose the White House. He has aspirations to become Ways and Means chairman, one of the most powerful jobs on Capitol Hill, when Mr. Thomas's term is up in 2006, and he knows that his future could hinge on the Social Security debate. With Congress in recess this week, Republicans must go back to their constituents to sell Mr. Bush's plan. If Mr. McCrery sounds skeptical, they might have a tough time doing it. 
 ''He has to be seen as an unflinching advocate of the president's proposal for personal accounts because that is the biggest thing on the conservative agenda,'' said Stephen Moore, former president of the Club for Growth, an antitax group. ''The real question is, is he working behind the scenes and in front of the cameras to help make this a legislative reality?''
 Working behind the scenes is Mr. McCrery's forte. As president of his fraternity at Louisiana Tech University, he wanted to raise money for a new house. His social chairman, Bobby Waddell, wanted a share for the party fund. Mr. Waddell, now a district court judge in Shreveport, the northern Louisiana city Mr. McCrery represents, said Mr. McCrery quietly brokered a compromise. ''He did his homework on getting the votes,'' Mr. Waddell said.
 Like many Republicans from traditionally Democratic Louisiana, Mr. McCrery was once a Democrat. A lawyer by training, he worked in the early 1980's for Mr. Roemer, then a Congressional Democrat, and went on to become a lobbyist for the timber industry. In 1988, he ran as a Republican for the seat Mr. Roemer had vacated to become governor. Mr. McCrery won, becoming the first Republican to represent the district in 114 years. He was headed for defeat until his opponent, a state legislator named Foster Campbell, was injured in a car crash. Mr. McCrery pulled his advertising and became known as ''Gentleman Jim,'' a label that fit a personality his consultants had tried in vain to revamp.
 ''I had advisers telling me to do this or do that,'' Mr. McCrery said. ''I said, 'Look, I am who I am. I'm not going to change. I'm not going to buy a pair of cowboy boots, I'm not going to wear blue jeans -- I don't own a pair of blue jeans. If I can't win based on who I am, then I shouldn't win.'''
 Mr. Campbell, now a public utilities commissioner, describes Mr. McCrery as ''a real clean guy, a straight, strict Republican'' who is too pro-business for Democrats' taste. ''If it ever comes between big business and people,'' he said, ''it's easy to figure out where Jim McCrery's going to be.''
 Mr. McCrery makes no apologies. ''I believe very strongly in capitalism,'' he said -- so strongly that he named his political action committee ''the Committee for the Preservation of Capitalism.'' The committee raised $1.3 million during the 2004 election cycle -- nearly as much as one founded by Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader of the House -- and contributed heavily to other Republicans, winning Mr. McCrery friends who will come in handy as he tries to ascend the leadership ladder. 
 And he is trying, hard. ''Absolutely,'' he said, asked if he wanted the Ways and Means chairmanship. Told that colleagues say he will probably get it, he remarked, deadpan: ''Who has not told you that? I would like to know.''
 Mr. McCrery says he loves being a congressman, yet he almost walked away last year. Torn between his job in Washington and his wife and two young sons back in Shreveport, he told Republican leaders he would not seek re-election. ''I was gone,'' he said, though he changed his mind when the family decided to move to the capital. As the McCrerys agonized over their future, supporters back home offered housing, a job for his wife, even a private plane to make the commute quicker. Mr. McCrery said he turned them down.
 ''All kinds of offers came in the door,'' he said, ''none of which was legal.''
 After nearly two decades in Congress, Mr. McCrery has decided that his future is in the House. He has passed up at least two chances to run for the Senate, and does not seem much interested in being governor. As the Social Security debate moves forward, he says, his goal is to get a bill to Mr. Bush by the end of the year. But he is also a realist. Mostly, he is hoping to keep his reputation, and his future, intact.
 ''If we get a bill to the president, or we don't get a bill to the president,'' he said, ''I hope at the end of this, people won't say, 'Jim McCrery is the one who messed this up.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Jim McCrery, the chairman of the House subcommittee on Social Security, has worked his way to the right place at the right time. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Social Security (US); Social Security (US)

PERSON: JIM MCCRERY (93%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush; Jim (Rep) Mccrery

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



487 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Ending for Weinsteins and Disney?

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
Harvey Weinstein, the Miramax Films co-founder, is expected to meet this week with executives for the Walt Disney Company for a final round of negotiations that would allow the Weinsteins to leave Disney when their contract expires in September, according to three people involved in the negotiations.
 The Weinsteins have agreed to stay and market several Miramax movies that have already been completed and will be released before they depart on Sept. 30. Among the movies are ''Sin City,'' the comic book thriller from Dimension Films, the highly profitable division of Miramax run by Bob Weinstein; ''Hostage,'' with Bruce Willis; Gwyneth Paltrow's ''Proof''; and ''The Great Raid,'' starring Benjamin Bratt, whose release date will be moved to June from December. 
 The Weinsteins have also agreed to reduce Miramax's budget to less than $350 million for the year ending in September, about half of the $700 million they have contractually been allowed to spend, two of the people said. In exchange, the Weinsteins will be able to begin production on films for an unnamed film company they are starting. They have already sought financing on Wall Street, as well as a partner to distribute the movies. 
 If a deal is struck soon it would be the end of a tempestuous 12-year relationship that has been both beneficial and trying for Harvey and Bob Weinstein, as well as for Disney's chief executive, Michael D. Eisner. The Weinsteins sold their company in 1993 for $80 million to Disney, where they have since produced several Academy Award favorites, including ''Shakespeare in Love,'' ''The English Patient'' and ''Chicago.'' 
 Mr. Eisner often chafed at the autonomy of the Weinsteins, particularly as Disney's fortunes shifted after the Sept. 11 attacks and it was forced to cut costs as tourism waned and the recession lingered.
 The Weinsteins, for their part, felt thwarted by Mr. Eisner although they expanded into books, television, magazines and big-budget movies, some of which disappointed at the box office, including ''The Gangs of New York'' and ''Cold Mountain.'' 
 Harvey Weinstein is expected to be in Los Angeles on Wednesday ahead of Sunday's Academy Awards for talks with Richard Cook, chairman of Walt Disney Studios. Mr. Cook took over negotiations for Disney in November when it became clear that the Weinsteins would leave once their contract ended. Negotiators for both sides say the terms benefit both parties, and they are cautiously optimistic that the long-simmering dispute will be resolved as early as next week and announced soon after that.
 But they also warn that the discussions could falter or be delayed given the volatile nature of the Weinsteins' relationship with Disney. A spokesman for the Weinsteins declined to comment on any potential agreement. A Disney spokeswoman declined to comment. 
 The three people involved in the negotiations requested anonymity, fearing that disclosing their names might jeopardize the talks. 
 The Weinsteins have yet to finalize which Miramax projects they will be allowed to take with them, the three people said. Those discussions are scheduled to continue this week, but the list is expected to include some acquisitions that Harvey Weinstein made at the Sundance Film Festival as well as movies to be directed by Quentin Tarantino, Anthony Minghella and Robert Rodriguez. 
 All of those directors have long-standing successful working relationships with the Weinsteins.
 In an unusual twist for Disney, said two of the people involved, the Weinsteins will be able to make the sequels to Dimension Films franchise properties like ''Scary Movie,'' ''Scream'' and ''Spy Kids.'' Disney, however, will retain the right to co-produce those films and invest in up to 50 percent of any movie's budget.
 The Weinsteins will also be able to keep a certain percentage of the profit in movies Miramax did not make but has a financial stake in, including the ''Lord of the Rings'' franchise at New Line Cinema, which Mr. Eisner refused to finance when the idea was first presented by Harvey Weinstein, and Disney's coming ''Chronicles of Narnia.''
 One sticking point in the talks had been whether the Weinsteins would be able to retain the Miramax name and the library; they will keep neither, the three people said. The loss of the name is a personal one for the brothers; Miramax was named after their parents Miriam and Max.
 Disney plans to restructure Miramax, although it will continue to be based in New York and will be independent, one negotiator said. In the post-Weinstein Miramax, the parent company will have more control, both financially and creatively, and the budget will be about $300 million. 
 Several Hollywood executives have been said to be interested in running Miramax, but Disney has not yet considered potential candidates. Even some within Disney have begun jockeying for the post, a politically risky and naive move given that the Weinsteins have not left yet. Disney has several months to interview possible successors.
 The two sides have yet to decide how much cash the Weinsteins will receive upon leaving but estimates are that it will be above $100 million and less than $150 million. The amount, said one of the people, depends on how many projects the Weinsteins hope to buy back from Disney.
 If an agreement is reached soon it would cap more than a year of fractious discussions where, among other things, the Weinsteins threatened legal action against Disney and the two camps engaged in a public war of words. The relationship between Disney and the Weinsteins hit a low last spring over the release of the Michael Moore political documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' which Disney refused to distribute but which went on to earn more than $119 million at the domestic box office.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob, left, and Harvey Weinstein are to leave Miramax soon. (Photo by Robert Millard/Zuma Press, 2001) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATE CHANGES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TERRORISM (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%) Motion Pictures; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Advertising and Marketing; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Motion Pictures

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Miramax Films; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (90%); BOB WEINSTEIN (79%); BRUCE WILLIS (58%); GWYNETH PALTROW (58%) Laura M Holson; Bob Weinstein; Harvey Weinstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



488 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Words: 'Clear Vision'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's speech yesterday in Brussels, as provided by the White House. The full transcript is on the Web at nytimes.com/world.
 Our greatest opportunity and immediate goal is peace in the Middle East. After many false starts, and dashed hopes, and stolen lives, a settlement of the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians is now within reach. America and Europe have made a moral commitment: We will not stand by as another generation in the Holy Land grows up in an atmosphere of violence and hopelessness. America and Europe also share a strategic interest: By helping to build a lasting peace, we will remove an unsettled grievance that is used to stir hatred and violence across the Middle East. 
 Our efforts are guided by a clear vision: We're determined to see two democratic states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. 
 All the parties have responsibilities to meet. Arab states must end incitement in their own media, cut off public and private funding for terrorism, stop their support for extremist education, and establish normal relations with Israel. Palestinian leaders must confront and dismantle terrorist groups, fight corruption, encourage free enterprise, and rest true authority with the people. Only a democracy can serve the hopes of Palestinians, and make Israel secure, and raise the flag of a free Palestine. A successful Palestinian democracy should be Israel's top goal as well. So Israel must freeze settlement activity, help Palestinians build a thriving economy and ensure that a new Palestinian state is truly viable, with contiguous territory on the West Bank. A state of scattered territories will not work. As Palestinian leaders assume responsibility for Gaza and increasingly larger territory, we will help them build the economic and political and security institutions needed to govern effectively. And as that democracy rises, the United States and Europe will help the parties implement the road map to peace. 
 Our shared commitment to democratic progress is being tested in Lebanon, a once thriving country that now suffers under the influence of an oppressive neighbor. Just as the Syrian regime must take stronger action to stop those who support violence and subversion in Iraq, and must end its support for terrorist groups seeking to destroy the hope of peace between Israelis and Palestinians, Syria must also end its occupation of Lebanon. 
 I also believe that Russia's future lies within the family of Europe and the trans-Atlantic community. America supports W.T.O. membership for Russia, because meeting W.T.O. standards will strengthen the gains of freedom and prosperity in that country. Yet, for Russia to make progress as a European nation, the Russian government must renew a commitment to democracy and the rule of law. We recognize that reform will not happen overnight. We must always remind Russia, however, that our alliance stands for a free press, a vital opposition, the sharing of power, and the rule of law, and the United States and all European countries should place democratic reform at the heart of their dialogue with Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); CORRUPTION (51%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Palestinians

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (98%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); LEBANON (93%); BELGIUM (92%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%) Russia; Israel; Syria; Lebanon; France

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2005



489 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Woman Is Charged With Murdering 6-Year-Old Son

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. Feb. 22 

 BODY:
A 43-year-old Highland Park woman was charged on Tuesday with killing her 6-year-old son after she called the police, who found the boy dead at his home. He had apparently been suffocated with a pillow, the police said, and had also been given a large amount of over-the-counter drugs.
 The woman, Alice O'Donnell, and her son, Phillip, had recently started receiving assistance from the Division of Youth and Family Services, a state child welfare agency, and a state watchdog agency has opened an investigation into the division's handling of the case. 
 The police said that Ms. O'Donnell had made statements implicating herself in the death of Phillip, who was a first grader at Irvington Elementary School. An autopsy is planned for Wednesday. 
 The prosecutor said Ms. O'Donnell had self-inflicted wounds, but they were not serious. She was charged with murder and is being held in jail.
 Phillip's death set in motion more investigations into New Jersey's child welfare system, which has been stung by a series of child fatalities that investigators said might have been prevented if state child welfare agents had been more vigilant. 
 The state child welfare watchdog, the Office of the Child Advocate, created to monitor the youth and family division, has studied the cases of 14 children who died from being neglected or abused in 2004 and who had been under the division's care. 
 Andy Williams, a spokesman for the division, said his agency had received a call on Feb. 9 from someone expressing concern about Ms. O'Donnell and her son. He said a welfare worker had visited the home -- most recently on Thursday -- and had arranged for a program to assist Ms. O'Donnell with housing, employment and money management.
 ''But I don't see any allegation of abuse or neglect,'' Mr. Williams said. ''It seems like there was a call, that someone was concerned about the mom's well being, and that we sent a worker out to assess it and to arrange for help.''
 Kevin M. Ryan, director of the child advocate office, said the child welfare agency's involvement with the O'Donnells required him to open an investigation to see whether state aid workers had done all they could to protect Phillip.
 ''We understand that there is a recent D.Y.F.S. involvement,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''We are opening an investigation, this evening, into the child welfare system's involvement with the family of Phillip O'Donnell.''
 According to the prosecutor, the O'Donnells lived in a garden apartment complex, and Ms. O'Donnell was unemployed. She called the Highland Park police shortly before 1 p.m. Tuesday, the prosecutor said, and the police who responded found Phillip dead in a bedroom. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the arrest of a New Jersey woman on charges of having killed her 6-year-old son misstated the name of his school. It was the Irving Primary School, not the Irvington Elementary School.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CHILD WELFARE (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOPSIES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); FAMILY (76%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



490 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Is Still Surging In Harlem, a Study Finds

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
The Harlem real estate renaissance rolls on -- and the numbers show it.
 Sales of condominiums and co-ops above West 116th Street and East 96th Street reached 5.5 percent of all sales in Manhattan last year, according to the Prudential Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Report, compared with the 3.6 percent share it held in 2003.
 By comparison, the downtown loft market was 9.4 percent of all sales in Manhattan, up from 8.1 percent the year before. 
 ''They've both gone up,'' said Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal company, which prepared the Elliman report, ''but the market that's gotten most of the attention, and was discovered first, was the loft market, which really came into being in the 90's. Now Harlem has become a significant segment that can't be overlooked.'' 
 It is impossible for Willie Katherine Suggs, president of the Harlem brokerage firm that bears her name, to overlook the change. ''There are blocks in Harlem that bear no resemblance to what they looked like 10 years ago,'' Ms. Suggs said. ''Right outside my door, it was like somebody bombed it out -- vacant lots, vacant buildings. Now there are two nine-story luxury buildings, and they are doing a third one on the north side of 145th Street.''
 Seen over a 10-year period, Harlem's renewal is even more evident. The Elliman report tracked 8,653 co-op and condo sales for all of Manhattan last year, up 77.9 percent from 4,865 sales in 1995, when the real estate market bottomed out after the 1990-91 recession. In Harlem last year, the report said, there were 473 co-op and condo sales, a 164 percent jump from 179 sales in 1995. The report is based on closed transactions for all brokerage firms in Manhattan.
 There has been, not surprisingly, a corresponding surge in prices. The average sales price for all of Manhattan in 2004 was $1,004,232, up 18.1 percent from $850,340 in 2003, and up 140.5 percent since 1995, the report said. In Harlem, the average price in 2004 was $358,657, up 36.9 percent from $261,951 in 2003, and up 333.7 percent from $82,693 in 1995.
 The median price in Manhattan last year was $605,859, up 22.4 percent from $495,000 in 2003, and up 192 percent from $207,500 in 1995. In Harlem, the median price in 2004 was $305,490, rising by 32.8 percent over the median of $230,000 in 2003, and bounding up by 350 percent from $68,000 in 1995.
 Ms. Suggs credits city housing policy for the boom. ''You have city money involved,'' she said. ''If you agreed to keep prices affordable, you got tax breaks and all kinds of incentives. And investors took advantage of them. Where else could you get a two-bedroom apartment for $190,000?''
 Now, most of those subsidized, renovated apartments are gone, ''and nonsubsidized apartments start at $450,000 and go up to over a million,'' Ms. Suggs continued. ''It became the self-fulfilling prophecy.'' 
 Spurring the demand, of course, is the fact that Manhattan ''has just gotten so expensive,'' said Dr. Chris Mayer, director of the Milstein Center for Real Estate at Columbia University. ''And, certainly, the renaissance in Harlem, in Brooklyn and, frankly, across the bridges and tunnels to New Jersey, shows that close access to Midtown is worth the price.''
 To be sure, at the same time, Harlem's character has changed a lot in just a decade. ''Large chain grocery stores are there; hotels opening up, the Body Shop, Starbucks,'' Dr. Mayer said. ''And it has become harder for people on a limited income to live there.''
 ''It's always an interesting question whether so-called gentrification is good or bad,'' he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



491 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Harvard President Vows to Temper His Style With Respect

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER and PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 22 

 BODY:
With his faculty threatening open revolt, the president of Harvard, Lawrence H. Summers, promised Tuesday that he would temper his management style and begin treating people more respectfully.
 Professors, gathered at an overflow faculty meeting to hear and discuss Dr. Summers, appeared so dissatisfied with the state of his leadership that they rejected a proposal to have three senior Harvard scholars mediate the furor between the faculty and its president. 
 After five weeks of mea culpas for his remarks about women in the sciences, Dr. Summers issued yet another apology. He promised professors that they would no longer experience the intimidation, anger and hurt feelings that many of them have reported in his three-and-a-half-year tenure. 
 ''I am committed to opening a new chapter in my work with you,'' he told some 500 faculty and staff members, according to a copy of his remarks. ''To start, I pledge to you that I will seek to listen more and more carefully and to temper my words and actions in ways that convey respect and help us work together more harmoniously.''
 ''No doubt I will not always get things right. But I am determined to set a different tone.''
 He also promised to pay greater respect to the powers of the faculty on matters like undergraduate education, which he has sought to re-shape.
 But the deep concern over his management appeared likely to continue, at least in private. Some critics said after the meeting that Dr. Summers was so damaged that his chance of being a great Harvard president was over. Others praised him as trying to reach out. 
 Although professors did not hold a vote of no confidence at Tuesday's meeting, as some had threatened, a university dean promised to hold a series of private, informal meetings between Dr. Summers and professors in the coming weeks. However, several professors expressed skepticism about whether that intervention would do any good. The next full faculty meeting, where the confrontations with Dr. Summers have taken place this month, is scheduled for March 15.
 ''He is the president; we need to work with that,'' said Cynthia Friend, chairwoman of chemistry and chemical biology. 
 ''We need to find a new way of working together,'' she added. 
 Tuesday's faculty meeting was convened explicitly for professors to stand in judgment of Dr. Summers, for and against, and was the latest stormy episode in the serial drama of the Summers presidency. The depth and intensity of faculty anger was shown in a Harvard Crimson poll published Tuesday in which 52 percent of professors disapproved of Dr. Summers's leadership and 40 percent approved. In an effort to heal the breach between Dr. Summers and the faculty, a former dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences proposed a three-member mediation team that would act as a line of communication from the faculty to the president and to Harvard's two governing boards. 
 Two professors rejected the idea as undemocratic and seemingly prearranged. The former dean, Jeremy Knowles, withdrew the proposal. 
 ''I think an important opportunity was lost for the faculty of arts and sciences to gain some leverage to change its relationship with the president,'' said Theda Skocpol, a government professor who was to have been on the mediation team. 
 Most of the faculty speeches at Tuesday's meeting ranged from mildly critical to highly critical of Dr. Summers, but some supporters spoke in his favor. 
 Caroline Hoxby, an economics professor, opened her remarks by saying that the discussion was not about ''right versus left'' or political correctness, but about management. Some commentators have put a political spin on the debate over remarks by Dr. Summers that women may lag in science and engineering because of ''intrinsic aptitude.''
 ''Every time, Mr. President, you show a lack of respect for a faculty member's intellectual expertise, you break ties in our web,'' Professor Hoxby said to Dr. Summers, according to a copy of her remarks. ''Every time you humiliate or silence a faculty member, you break ties in our web.''
 Leaving the meeting, James Kloppenberg, a history professor, said he felt reassured. Professor Kloppenberg said of Dr. Summers, ''He realizes he can't govern the university without the support of the faculty.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers on his way to a meeting with faculty members. (Photo by Jodi Hilton/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); WOMEN (75%); CHEMISTRY (65%) Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%) Sara Rimer; Patrick D Healy; Lawrence H Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



492 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: A Different Puerto Rico

 BODY:
Regarding R.W. Apple Jr.'s article on restaurants in Puerto Rico [''Puerto Rico, Flavored With Contradictions,'' Feb. 16], it is quite risky to brand all Puerto Ricans as ''all Hispanic gringos and gringo Hispanics,'' considering that the only influence by the United States on Puerto Rico mentioned in the article is economic.
 Mr. 
Apple says: ''Puerto Rico is big enough, and well organized enough, that it raises and catches much of the food it consumes. It is therefore less dependent upon the vagaries of air-shipped produce than many islands.'' But we import much of our food from the United States, Ireland and Japan.
 Finally, I was quite offended for any Puerto Rican woman to be referred to as a ''Jennifer Lopez wannabe.'' 

Mayte Bayolo
Guaynabo, P.R.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (93%); UNITED STATES (87%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



493 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2756 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Migrants Profit From Dollars Sent Home

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: VALPARAISO, Mexico, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
Less than two months after he was elected, Mayor Alberto Ruiz Flores climbed in his truck and set out on a 26-hour road trip across the border to Southern California, carrying a wish list of public works projects to a backyard barbecue in Oxnard.
 The reason? To solicit money from some of the 400,000 Mexicans who abandon their country each year for work in the United States, including half his town in Central Mexico. Those who have left Valparaiso send home an estimated $100,000 a day, as much money in one month as the municipality will spend all year. 
 A week later, Mr. Ruiz was at a restaurant in Aurora, Ill., for a meeting with a Mexican factory worker and billboard painter who has raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Valparaiso. The week after that, he invited migrant leaders from Dallas and Las Vegas to join him at home for the annual crowning of the municipal beauty queen. 
 ''I consider myself the mayor of Valparaiso, and the mayor to those, like you, who had to leave Valparaiso in search of a decent life,'' Mr. Ruiz said at the start of each encounter. ''You have shown with your generosity that you are still a part of Mexico. Without you, who knows where we would be.''
 For Mr. Ruiz, politics does not stop at the United States border. The same is true across Mexico, the Caribbean and Latin America, where more and more officials like him answer to cross-border constituencies made up of the people at home who cast ballots and the ones abroad who pull the purse strings. 
 Today more than ever, the remittances sent home by immigrant workers, both legal and illegal, are translating into political clout, and their communities in the United States, better organized and more vocal than before, have become social and political forces too important to ignore. 
 It is a phenomenon that has made Washington a principal battleground to lobby support among Salvadorans for the Central American Free Trade Agreement; New York a crucial state in elections in the Dominican Republic, which allows its citizens to vote from the United States; and Chicago a mandatory campaign stop for Mexican politicians.
 On Tuesday, in Mexico City, migrant power was further consolidated when the lower Chamber of Deputies passed legislation allowing the migrants to cast absentee ballots from the United States, which will allow Mexicans with American citizenship to vote in both places. 
 The measure opens the way for an estimated 10 million Mexicans and Mexican-Americans to vote in presidential elections next year, in a potential tidal wave that could have significant impact on this country's fledgling democracy. Other countries including Venezuela, Colombia, Brazil and Honduras also allow their migrants to cast absentee ballots.
 For Mexico, the logistics of the huge endeavor remain unclear; legislators estimated that operating polls in the United States could cost at least $50 million. The measure, which was passed by an overwhelming majority and is expected to win easy passage by the Senate, also provides money for Mexican political parties to campaign in the United States. However, it prohibits them from receiving foreign campaign donations. 
 Already, the economic influence of the migrants is undeniable. The Inter-American Development Bank estimates that migrants sent more than $45 billion to Latin America and the Caribbean last year, exceeding foreign investment and official development assistance for the third year in a row. 
 Mexico -- where people compete with oil as the country's chief export -- received some $17 billion in remittances, almost twice the amount of just four years ago.
 Oscar Chacon, of the immigrant advocacy group Enlaces America, calls the phenomenon a quiet revolution led by an expanding network of more than 500 mom and pop organizations that are filling in where more than a decade of free trade and foreign investment has failed to narrow the gap between the rich and poor.
 Today those immigrant groups are using the power that comes with their remittances to place ever greater demands on politicians at all levels. Their leaders have met with advisers to President Bush to push for sweeping immigration reform, and with presidents across Latin America to demand everything from the power to cast absentee ballots and run for office in their homelands, to universal health insurance and college scholarships. 
 ''Once the voices of immigrants were weak,'' said Efrain Jimenez, a former auto mechanic who now oversees multimillion-dollar infrastructure projects in Zacatecas, financed by immigrants in California. ''We had money, but we had no organizations.
 ''Now we have hundreds of organizations,'' he said. ''No president can ignore us.''
 So far, migrants have lost more of those political battles than they have won, especially in the United States, where Mr. Bush's plans have stalled for a guest worker program. It would offer temporary legal status to an estimated three million Mexican laborers. 
 Still, says Mr. Chacon, migrants are raising money for public works, forming political action committees to support candidates at home and, in small but growing numbers, returning home to run for public office themselves. 
 Some are serving as mayors, city council members and state legislators, bringing fresh perspective and ideas from their time spent in the United States and new demands for accountability from governments long regarded as corrupt or ineffective. 
 Like Mexico, most countries prohibit political parties from receiving foreign campaign donations. But in recent years, migrants in the United States have formed political action committees to sponsor campaign trips to America for candidates from their home countries. And they send delegations of campaign workers back home to help candidates press the pavement, more and more of which they have paid for. 
 Few places understand the changes better than Zacatecas, the Central Mexican state where Mr. Ruiz serves as mayor. More than a century of migration has inextricably linked Zacatecas to the United States. Today more than half of the state's people live north of the border, mostly in California, Illinois and Texas.

The Political Process Expands
 While the rest of Mexico debates whether to give migrants the power to cast absentee ballots, Zacatecas is already allowing its migrants to come home and run for office.
 Two migrants, including Andres Bermudez, a wealthy California grower known as the Tomato King, won mayoral races. Two other immigrants won seats in the state legislature.
 The governor of Zacatecas, Amalia Garcia, has traveled to the United States at least four times since she was inaugurated in September. She spent a weekend in November in Los Angeles, listening to migrant complaints at the Mexican Consulate, discussing investment opportunities with Mexican business leaders, and helping to crown the new Miss Zacatecas at the annual Zacatecano Ball.
 When asked during her whirlwind visit to explain why she gives so much attention to Mexicans thousands of miles away, Ms. Garcia said: ''I consider Zacatecas as a binational state. Although the reasons our people have migrated are painful, these people have guaranteed our social stability.''
 Southern California is the capital of the Mexican diaspora, and a hotbed of Mexican politics, led by the Federation of Zacatecan Clubs and men like Guadalupe Gomez. 
 The federation meets in a drab gray building in the City Terrace section of East Los Angeles that looks more like an abandoned warehouse than a transnational seat of power. And its leaders are auto mechanics, postal workers, hospital administrators, real estate agents and tax consultants.
 Nearly everybody who wants to be anybody in Zacatecan politics has walked through its doors. Presidential agreements have been signed there. Political campaigns have been started. 
 The federation proclaims that it is apolitical. But it is precisely its close ties to the government of Zacatecas that have helped it grow out of its members' garages into one of the most successful migrant fund-raising groups in the United States -- and helped men like Mr. Gomez change from a mild-mannered tax consultant to a high-powered, cross-border political operative.
 Today in his lobbying efforts, he rubs shoulders with President Fox as well as President Bush. To spend time with the 44-year-old father of four is to glimpse a world without borders, where Spanglish is the first language. 
 One day he is in Los Angeles addressing a ballroom full of Guatemalan mayors seeking his advice on how to get their own migrants to invest in public works projects back home. The next, he is giving the same advice to a room full of Mexican mayors in Zacatecas.
 In 1998, Mr. Gomez established a migrant political action committee that was key to electing the first opposition governor of Zacatecas, helping the state break free of nearly seven decades of authoritarian rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party. Two years later he helped Mr. Fox win the support of Mexican migrants in his historic bid to become this country's first democratically elected opposition president.
 In an agreement negotiated by Mr. Gomez and other federation leaders, every dollar sent home was matched by three more dollars from the local, state and federal governments in a program called Tres por Uno, or Three for One.
 Mr. Gomez then negotiated with President Fox to nationalize the program. For the first time, Mexican migrants were not only sending money home, but also had a say in how the money was spent.
 ''We do not want anyone deciding for us what our communities need,'' Mr. Gomez said. ''We are not going to Mexico asking for help. We are offering help. We want to play a key role in the future.
 ''If Mexico is ever going to get out of the third world,'' he said, ''then we need to be a part of that.''

Balancing Needs and Wants
 All it takes is one night at a federation meeting to understand that the relationship between Mexican elected officials and the migrants is not all love and happiness. Negotiations are far from easy.
 The street outside at a recent meeting was packed with sport utility vehicles. Inside, the meeting hall looked like a small sea of cowboy hats. Seated on the dais was a federal senator, two state legislators and at least seven members of Governor Garcia's cabinet, including the ministers of economic development and agricultural industry, and the director of migrant affairs.
 In the audience sat at least 16 mayors from municipalities across Zacatecas. Each one got up to address the crowd. And they seemed to have one common plea.
 ''Many clubs have come to us offering to build rodeo arenas or to renovate churches in areas that do not have electricity or potable water,'' said Mayor Rodolfo Monreal of the municipality of Fresnillo. ''We are asking you to consider projects with greater social impact.
 ''I understand that the migrants should have a voice in what we do in Mexico,'' he went on. ''But we know better than anybody what our communities need, and those needs should come first.''
 The room began to grumble. Some of the migrant leaders whispered that the mayors did not care so much about ''projects with greater social impact'' as they did about projects aimed at making the government look good to voters.
 Other mayors argued back that the migrants had fallen out of touch with Mexican realities, and that they wanted to remake Mexico in the image of the United States. 
 ''The migrants want to have here the lives they have over there,'' Mr. Monreal said. ''They do not listen to what we want.''
 Mr. Jimenez, who manages the federation's public works spending, stepped to the microphone with a diplomat's demeanor. It is true, he told the mayors, that migrants might start out renovating churches. Many of them want to show thanks to God for their success in the United States.
 But if local authorities support their churches, the migrants will come around and support local authorities to build roads and schools and clinics.
 Mr. Gomez watched from the back of the room. He said he had been listening to this debate since the federation began. For a while, he said, the staunchly secular government refused to contribute public funds to help renovate churches -- almost all of them Roman Catholic -- or build recreation facilities. 
 But when migrants threatened to withdraw from Tres por Uno, the government relented, and in the last four years it has helped renovate more than 100 churches in Zacatecas alone. 
 ''Those are the projects that inspired us to organize,'' Mr. Gomez said. ''And if the government says no to what we want, then we are not going to support the projects the government wants.''

Hardships and Homecomings
 Christmas in Valparaiso is one of the best times and places to get a look at what drives immigrant politics, and at the hardships and homecomings that make this cross-border phenomenon what it is.
 In November, villages like Boquilla del Refugio were almost empty. By the first weekend of December, they had come back to life as immigrants came home from the United States for the holiday.
 Lights turned on in houses that are vacant the rest of the year. Expensive sport utility vehicles with license plates from Arizona, Oklahoma, Colorado, Texas, California and Illinois roared through the streets. Local stores extended their hours and doubled their prices. 
 Lines of people wearing American-style T-shirts and baseball caps crawled up the aisles of a nearby chapel and the walls around the sanctuary were sprinkled with photos of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans in the United States armed forces, who had returned safely from duty in Iraq.
 Almost every night there was a dance, flowing with beer and tequila. And when there was no dance, the immigrants hired street musicians to follow them as they paraded, swigging tequila, through town.
 There were success stories among the throngs who had come home. Roman Cabral, the state legislator from Valparaiso, lived 30 years in California and Oregon. He started out as a dishwasher, and when he left last year to run for office, he was earning millions from his construction company and used-car lots.
 But more common were men like the president of the hometown club from Boquilla del Refugio, a 54-year-old metal worker named Rosendo Rivera. The club was started by a dozen working-class immigrants in the Chicago area, and in the last three years it has raised more than $350,000 for projects in a town where the population has dropped to nearly 600 people from 2,000.
 In Aurora, Mr. Rivera lives a working-class life, supplementing the income from his factory job by selling expensive cowboy attire. In Boquilla del Refugio, he is received like a hero.
 Mayor Ruiz said: ''If you listen to the migrants, all you will hear are success stories. They never talk about how hard their lives are in the United States. All of them say they have made it, and they spend money as if they are rich.
 ''So people here admire them,'' Mr. Ruiz said. ''They have tremendous influence.''
 But after decades of watching the phenomenon up close, Mr. Ruiz said he saw immigrants and their remittances as more of a mixed blessing.
 The more people go, the more money flows back. But the more money that flows back, the more people go. And once everyone is gone, he said, immigrants will not have any reason to send more money.
 There are already places in Zacatecas, he said, where remittances have peaked and are beginning to decline. Boquilla del Refugio seems headed toward the same fate. Florencio Herrera, treasurer of the village's hometown association and a resident of Elgin, Ill., says the elementary school buses in children from other communities so the government will keep it open. There are so few people left to worship in the village's church, lovingly renovated with remittances from the United States, that Mr. Herrera calls it an ''empty palace.''
 Still, the club raises money. On the first Saturday night of December, it held a dance that would help pay to install a sewage system in Boquilla del Refugio.
 When asked why he keeps raising money for a ghost town, Mr. Rivera seems stuck at first for an answer.
 ''I ask myself that sometimes,'' he said. ''I guess because I lived here and suffered here, and I want to make things better. But no matter how much we try to make things better, it's not going to stop people from leaving.''
 ''I guess it's just a matter of pride,'' he concluded. ''It's our way of making something of ourselves, and making a difference in the world.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: BACK HOME -- Remittances sent to Zacatecas State have financed the building and renovation of places including a rodeo arena in Valparaiso, left
a church in Boquilla del Refugio, center
and a health clinic in Mala Noche.
ON THE ROAD -- Mayor Alberto Ruiz Flores of Valparaiso, left, at a meeting in Oxnard, Calif., with migrants from Zacatecas. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Drawing (Drawing by Lalena Fisher/The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''A Step Up on Both Sides''Some of the money Mexican immigrants send home for local improvements is matched by the Mexican government in a program called Three for One. Much more of the $17 billion total sent home falls outside the program.Where the Money Comes FromIn 2004, migrants pledged $14.2 million for improvement projects in Mexico, through more than 527 organizations in 34 American states.Graph tracks total remittances (By state, for projects in Three for One program)Where the Money GoesFederal, state and local governments matched migrants' 2004 donations, resulting in financing for 1,263 projects.Graph tracks total amount for projects (By state, migrants' remittances with all matching funds)Valparaiso Zacatecas2004 projects: Pavement for Hidalgo St. $39,815 Crosswalk for health clinic $4,252 Bleachers for bullfight stadium $17,584, initial phaseMap of the United States and Mexico highlighting money for remittances and projects by state or region.(Sources by Mexico's Secretary for Social Development
Mexican census data for 2000
U.S. Census Bureau
 International Monetary Fund (exchange rate for Sept. 15, 2004, when Three for One budget was finalized)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); MAYORS (91%); REFUGEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (86%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (58%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Illegal Aliens; Elections; Absentee Voting; Immigration and Refugees; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: Ginger Thompson; Alberto (Mayor) Ruiz Flores

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HONDURAS (79%) Mexico; Dominican Republic; Valparaiso (Mexico) 

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



494 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Nicaragua Lags on Vow to Scrap Portable Missiles

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
State Department and Pentagon officials are expressing renewed concern that Nicaragua may not destroy its arsenal of portable antiaircraft missiles as it promised Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld during his visit to Managua last autumn, administration officials said Tuesday.
 An American delegation was in Managua on Tuesday to renew pressure on the Nicaraguan government to destroy all of the shoulder-fired missiles supplied by the Soviet Union and Cuba during the 1980's. The American group was led by Rose Likins, the acting assistant secretary of state for political-military affairs.
 A range of United States government and intelligence officials have said the shoulder-launched missiles are highly sought by terrorists and criminal groups, who might use them to shoot down a commercial airliner, a military passenger plane or a helicopter ferrying government and military personnel. The missiles are suitcase-sized and can be easily smuggled. 
 ''We do have a team down there of State Department and Pentagon officials working on the issue,'' Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said Tuesday at a news briefing. ''This has been a longstanding issue, one that we have worked productively with the Nicaraguan government on.'' 
 Mr. Boucher said President Enrique Bolanos of Nicaragua had given assurances several times ''that Nicaragua would destroy all of its man-portable missiles in order to reduce the chance that they might fall into the hands of criminals and terrorists.''
 The most recent high-level discussion took place last November, when Mr. Rumsfeld received an unambiguous pledge from President Bolanos that Nicaragua would destroy the entire stockpile of missiles.
 But two recent events prompted the current American delegation's visit, officials said. One was a recent sting operation in Nicaragua in which a Soviet-made SA-7 missile was purchased on the black market by an undercover team of Nicaraguan and United States law enforcement officers.
 The other was a vote by the National Assembly, dominated by opponents of Mr. Bolanos, which last week stripped the president of authority to dispose of military weapons and required that he seek its approval for any further destruction of missiles.
 ''I think we've been satisfied with some of the efforts the Nicaraguan government has made to destroy missiles, to the sting operation that helped identify that there might be others out there,'' Mr. Boucher said. ''But, obviously, the National Assembly vote creates difficulties, and it's one of the reasons why we want to get a team down there to try to work with them to help make sure the government can fulfill the pledge that it made at very high levels.'' 
 A spokesman for the Nicaraguan Embassy in Washington declined to comment, saying all official statements would have to come from the government in Managua after the visit.
 The United States demonstrated its unhappiness this week over the pace at which Nicaragua is destroying the missiles by sending a major, instead of the higher-ranking officer that protocol might have dictated, to the promotion ceremony on Monday for Gen. Omar Hallesleven of the Nicaraguan Army, a senior Pentagon official said. 
 Between 1,000 and 1,400 of the SA-7 missiles remain in the Nicaraguan arsenal, according to Pentagon officials. 
 Last year American intelligence agencies tripled the formal estimate of the number of shoulder-fired missile systems believed to be at large worldwide, since determining that at least 4,000 of the weapons in Iraq's prewar arsenals could not be accounted for.
 In 2002 attackers who fired two SA-7's almost hit a commercial aircraft taking off from Mombasa, Kenya. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); AIRLINES (74%); TERRORISM (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (55%) Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: THE AMERICAN GROUP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3552 TEXTILE MACHINERY (58%)

PERSON: Thom Shanker; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) Nicaragua; Russia; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



495 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Markets Fall Sharply As Price of Oil Rises
Crude oil prices rose 5.8 percent to their highest level in nearly four months yesterday, topping $51 a barrel, on concerns that OPEC might curb supplies. The gains sent stocks plunging, with the Dow falling 174.02 points, as investors feared higher energy costs would hurt the economy. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

California Storms
Hail warnings and tornado watches were issued for much of Southern California as the death toll from the latest storms rose to six. Pounding rain brought mudslides, sinkholes and traffic accidents. PAGE A15

G.O.P.'s Social Security Risks
As Senator Rick Santorum is discovering in his home state, Pennsylvania, President Bush's plan to overhaul Social Security holds risks for Republicans. PAGE A16

Hints of Ancient Martian Sea
Three-dimensional images from the Mars Express spacecraft suggest that fractured plates near the Martian equator are remnants of ice from an ancient sea. PAGE A17

Queen Will Skip the Wedding
Queen Elizabeth will take a pass on the civil wedding of her son Prince Charles but will attend a blessing later, Buckingham Palace said. PAGE A5

Michelin Tastes New York
Michelin has been secretly reviewing 500 New York restaurants and 50 Manhattan hotels in preparation for the publication of its first red guide outside Europe. DINING, PAGE F1


GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (77%); TORNADOES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); BRITISH ROYALTY (72%); SPACE EXPLORATION (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (54%); PRINCE CHARLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARS (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



496 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Rise Amid Concern Over Weather And Supplies

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Crude oil prices rose 5.8 percent to their highest level in nearly four months yesterday, jumping above $51 a barrel, on concerns that OPEC might curb supplies when it meets next month. Cold weather in North America and Europe contributed to the surge by pushing up heating oil prices.
 The gains sent stocks plunging as investors feared higher energy costs would hurt the economy. In the most active day of trading so far this year, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index both fell more than 1.4 percent, their steepest drops since the first week of August. 
 Light sweet crude futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange gained $2.80, to $51.15 a barrel yesterday, as trading resumed after the Presidents' Day holiday. Heating oil futures rose to their highest level since October, gaining 6.7 percent, to $1.44 a gallon. 
 The jump in oil prices ''reflects a realization that 2005 has the potential to be an even tighter year than 2004,'' said Kevin Norrish, an analyst at Barclays Capital in London. ''People are very worried that OPEC might make some production cuts.''
 Strong growth in demand coupled with concerns that supplies were lagging have pushed oil prices up 49 percent over the last year. Crude prices in New York rose to a record $55.67 a barrel in October. They then dropped to nearly $40 before the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries intervened to prevent further declines and cut production at the beginning of January.
 While most analysts expect demand to slow this year from the record pace of 2004, high prices are not prompting China and the United States, the two main contributors to growth in the market, to significantly reduce their consumption. Global demand is expected to grow 1.8 percent, to 84 million barrels a day this year. Last year, demand rose by 3.4 percent, to 82.5 million barrels a day, the strongest pace of growth in nearly three decades.
 Greater demand means greater reliance on OPEC supplies. The group's 11 members account for about a third of the world's production and nearly half of global exports. The International Energy Agency, in a report earlier this month, cut its forecasts for Canadian and Russian production and warned that the output from producers outside of OPEC would slow this year. 
 ''The path of least resistance was clearly on the upside today,'' said Eric Bolling, an independent oil trader on the Nymex, who is betting that crude prices will continue to rise. ''You've had bad weather and OPEC combined with a strong market.''
 The latest jump in prices came amid concerns that OPEC, which meets in Iran on March 16, might consider production cuts for the second quarter. Demand typically slows down in the second quarter while companies in industrialized countries rebuild their stockpiles.
 OPEC's heavyweight members have sent mixed messages in recent days about their intentions. Ali al-Naimi, the oil minister of Saudi Arabia, said on Monday that he did not expect commercial stockpiles to rise above 52 days of demand in the second quarter. Oil markets interpreted that as a signal that the group was considering a cut in production. 
 While commercial inventories now stand at 51 days of supplies, the figure suggested by Mr. Naimi is lower than a previous, informal target of 56 days that OPEC said it would be comfortable with when the group last met in January.
 ''The message you're getting from OPEC is that basically they don't want to see inventories build up from their current levels,'' said Mr. Norrish of Barclays. ''OPEC's figures suggest that if they want no more stock-build at all, they'll need to cut back production.''
 But the group's president, Sheik Ahmad al-Fahd al-Sabah, who is Kuwait's oil minister, said yesterday that he did not think a cut in production was needed. 
 ''There is no need for action now because inventories have not built in a big way that makes us worry about prices in the second quarter,'' Mr. Sabah told reporters in Kuwait yesterday, according to Reuters.
 Meanwhile, big swings in oil prices are becoming more common, a further signal that the global oil market is operating with little spare capacity to cover disruptions in supplies. 
 ''Substantial amounts of volatility aren't unusual anymore,'' Mr. Norrish said. ''Trying to pin moves on any one discrete event is harder. This is turning out to be, in a sense, normal trading.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks oil prices per barrel since October 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); FUTURES (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); HEATING OIL (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); WEATHER (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BONDS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Heating Oil; Stocks and Bonds; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Economy; Futures and Options Trading; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Barclays Capital

PERSON: Kevin Norrish; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



497 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Justices Appear Reluctant to Increase Land-Use Oversight

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
Hearing arguments in two highly charged property rights cases, the Supreme Court appeared reluctant on Tuesday to endow federal courts with increased authority over the land-use decisions of state and local governments.
 With only seven justices on the bench -- Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist is ill and Justice John Paul Stevens was stranded in Florida after his flight to Washington was canceled -- it was perhaps riskier than usual to extract likely decisions from the flow of the arguments. 
 Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who was presiding by virtue of seniority, announced at the start of the session that the two absent justices ''reserved the right'' to participate in the cases. 
 Nonetheless, it appeared likely that the property rights advocates who had shepherded a case from New London, Conn., to the court as part of a nationwide litigation campaign against what they call ''eminent domain abuse'' would come away disappointed, if not empty-handed. 
 Scott G. Bullock, a lawyer with the advocacy group Institute for Justice, argued on behalf of seven property owners that New London's plan to demolish their homes and turn a faded commercial neighborhood into prime office and development space violated the Constitution's requirement that governmental ''taking'' of private property serve a ''public use.'' 
 Fostering private economic development is not a public use, Mr. Bullock maintained, even if the development has incidental public benefits like improving the tax base. The Connecticut Supreme Court upheld the plan.
 The justices were not unsympathetic to the homeowners' plight, but several said they saw no way of adopting Mr. Bullock's position without overturning decades of precedents that had endorsed the use of eminent domain for slum clearance, rail lines and public utilities. ''The rationale for this is essentially the rationale for the railroads, the public utilities, and so on: there isn't another practical way to do it,'' Justice David H. Souter said.
 The day's second case, from Hawaii, presented the property issue in a somewhat different light. The state was appealing a federal appeals court's decision to block a state law that limited the rent that oil companies could charge to the independent gasoline dealers who lease their stations. The appeals court said that the rent cap amounted to an unconstitutional ''taking'' of property; it found that the law did not make sufficient economic sense because the state could not demonstrate through expert testimony that it would result in lower retail gasoline prices.
 The decision, by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, alarmed state and local governments across the country, many of which filed briefs warning that the appeals court's analysis placed in jeopardy residential rent control and many ordinary economic regulations. 
 Hawaii and its supporters argued that there was no modern precedent for subjecting a state's economic regulation to searching judicial scrutiny by the federal courts.
 Quite clearly, the justices got the message well before the argument began. While their questions in the New London case were probing and energetic, the justices appeared in the Hawaii case, Lingle v. Chevron USA, Inc., No. 04-163, to be almost going through the motions of hearing out the two sides as preparation for the inevitable conclusion that the Ninth Circuit had overstepped its bounds. 
 They had few questions for Hawaii's attorney general, Mark J. Bennett, or for Edwin S. Kneedler, a deputy United States solicitor general, representing the federal government, which entered the case on Hawaii's side. The case ''goes to the heart of the role of courts in our democratic society,'' Mr. Kneedler said, adding that courts were ill equipped to make the sort of ''predictive judgments'' on which the Ninth Circuit based its evaluation of the likely effects of the rent law.
 Craig E. Stewart, a San Francisco lawyer representing Chevron, which had sued the state to block the law, received a grilling. Why should it matter to a court, Justice Stephen G. Breyer wanted to know, whether the government had ''a very good reason or a barely adequate one'' for a regulation. ''That has nothing to do with whether they ought to pay compensation,'' Justice Breyer added.
 When Mr. Stewart said that courts could assess whether a regulation would efficiently carry out a stated goal, Justice Souter suggested that a maximum rent of $5 per apartment would be ''fine with you because it's an extraordinarily efficient way of relieving rent.''
 Justice Souter added, ''If the test is so unhelpful, why use the test at all?''
 In the New London case, Kelo v. City of New London, No. 04-108, the justices appeared to find equally alarming the logical consequences of the property owners' position that economic development was not a constitutionally appropriate public use. Mr. Bullock, the plaintiffs' lawyer, offered a fallback position: the government's use of the property as planned had to be ''reasonably foreseeable'' and according to ''minimum standards,'' like a construction schedule.
 Even Justice Antonin Scalia, by far the most sympathetic among the justices to Mr. Bullock's position, would not follow him down that path. ''Isn't that changing the test for 'public use' to 'efficient public use'?'' Justice Scalia asked, adding, ''You want us to sit here and evaluate the prospects of each condemnation, one by one?''
 Wesley W. Horton, a lawyer from Hartford representing New London, forcefully argued that economic development was an appropriate public use and that there was ''no principled basis for the court to make what is really a value judgment'' about the merits of any particular development plan. ''The essence of federalism'' is to let different state courts come to different conclusions, Mr. Horton said.
 When Justice O'Connor asked him whether it would be acceptable for a city to take a Motel 6 by eminent domain and replace it with a Ritz Carlton to get more tax revenue from the property, Mr. Horton firmly said yes. When Justice Breyer asked him whether a taking should at least have to meet a test of ''reasonableness,'' he said no, adding that the city was, after all, not simply appropriating the property but paying fair market value for it.
 How to measure the value -- the city has placed $1.6 million in escrow -- is a question that is not before the court. But several justices suggested that the longstanding rule, that the eminent domain price reflects the current market and not any expected appreciation from the project itself, was unfair in this context and should be revisited, perhaps in a future case.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Susette Kelo, a New London landowner in the eminent domain case, outside the Supreme Court yesterday with her lawyer, Scott G. Bullock. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GASOLINE (84%); WITNESSES (79%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TESTIMONY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); GAS STATIONS (70%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%) Land Use Policies; Eminent Domain; Garages and Service Stations; Suits and Litigation; Renting and Leasing; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: DAVID SOUTER (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%) Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%) HAWAII, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New London (Conn); Hawaii; Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



498 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Jump in Price of Oil Sends Markets Sharply Lower

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as oil prices climbed above $51 a barrel, sending the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to their steepest losses since August.
 The Dow average fell 174.02 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,611.20, the largest retreat since Aug. 5. The S.&P. 500 dropped 17.43 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,184.16, its worst performance since Aug. 6. The Nasdaq composite index slid 28.30 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,030.32. 
 Almost four stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.7 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, making it the busiest trading day this year. 
 Crude oil for March delivery jumped 5.8 percent, to $51.15 a barrel, in New York, the highest closing price since Oct. 29 and the biggest one-day gain since June 1. Colder-than-normal weather in the United States and Europe raised demand for furnace fuels.
 Retailers declined after Home Depot's quarterly profit failed to exceed forecasts and Federated Department Stores said earnings this quarter might disappoint.
 Home Depot lost $1.74, or 4.1 percent, to $40.28. The company said earnings rose 9.5 percent, the smallest gain in almost two years. Its quarterly profit of 47 cents a share matched the average estimate in a Thomson Financial survey.
 A Home Depot rival, Lowe's, retreated $1.22, to $57.53. A gauge of retailers declined 2.4 percent.
 Federated, which is reported to be in talks to buy May Department Stores, slid $1.43, to $55.29. The company, which owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's, said earnings this quarter would be as much as 50 cents a share, less than the 53 cent average analyst estimate in a Thomson poll.
 Some investors said the dollar's decline yesterday renewed concern about faster interest rate increases from the Federal Reserve. The dollar fell the most in more than six months against the euro and dropped versus the yen, Korean won and at least 30 other currencies after the Bank of Korea said it planned to increase its nondollar reserves.
 An index of financial shares dropped 1.5 percent and was the biggest drag on the S.&P. 500 among 10 industry groups.
 Robert L. Rodriguez, whose $1.8 billion FPA Capital Fund has returned 17 percent annually the last five years, said, ''I have not bought a new stock in nearly eight months.'' 
 ''Corporate profit margins,'' he added, ''are at all-time record levels and the odds are that they will be declining from here. That creates another problem for the equity market.''
 Gold stocks rose as the weak dollar heightened its appeal as an alternative to United States assets. Newmont Mining, the world's biggest gold producer, added $2.03, to $44.50.
 Medtronic, a medical device company, retreated 98 cents, to $52.02. Sales growth at Medtronic may lag behind expectations as the company's markets slow or become more competitive, a Credit Suisse First Boston analyst, Adam Galeon, wrote in a note to clients.
 Treasuries were mostly lower yesterday on speculation that a government report today will show that inflation is accelerating. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 6/32 yesterday, to 97 22/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.29 percent, from 4.26 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price
3-Mo. Bills: 99.339
6-Mo. Bills: 98.559

High Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 2.615
6-Mo. Bills: 2.850

Investment Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 2.669
6-Mo. Bills: 2.932

Low Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 2.585
6-Mo. Bills: 2.820

Median Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 2.600
6-Mo. Bills: 2.835

Total applied for
3-Mo. Bills: $43,871,595
6-Mo. Bills: $43,257,679

Accepted
3-Mo. Bills: $28,064,290
6-Mo. Bills: $24,221,870

Noncompetitive
3-Mo. Bills: $1,784,199
6-Mo. Bills: $1,449,822

Both issues are dated February 24, 2005. The three-month bills mature on August May 26, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on August 25, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); RETAILERS (87%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); EURO (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (82%); MACY'S INC (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BANK OF KOREA (52%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (50%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); M (NYSE) (70%); NEM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (70%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (50%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



499 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Wealthiest Nations to Increase Aid to Poorest

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
The world's wealthiest countries agreed on Tuesday to increase aid to the world's poorest nations by raising their contributions to the World Bank's international development program to $34 billion from $23 billion.
 It was the biggest increase for the development fund in two decades, and the agreement brought an end to feuding over how the money should be spent. The 28 countries agreed to give grants to the poorest nations and loans to those that could repay them, while using better yardsticks to measure development. 
 James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, welcomed the increase for the aid program, which he called ''the lifeline for many of the world's poorest people.'' 
 The money, which will be spent over three years beginning in July, will pay for the program of the International Development Association, which provides assistance to 81 nations. 
 In the last pledging session three years ago, there was serious disagreement over a proposal by the United States to give half of the assistance in grants rather than loans. Europe strongly opposed the idea, saying the repayment of the low-interest loans was a critical source of funds for future aid. The United States also proposed ways to better measure whether aid to specific countries succeeded in improving education, health and other areas. 
 Those new benchmarks were adopted on Tuesday. The donors decided that grants would be given only to the very poorest nations, and that loans would go to those nations that could eventually repay them. 
 ''We are very, very pleased with this outcome,'' said Geoff Lamb, a vice president of the World Bank, who was the chairman of the negotiations on Tuesday. 
 On a conference call with journalists, Mr. Lamb said recent philosophical disagreements over the best way to help the poor were disappearing and a ''strong consensus'' was in the making. 
 ''There was an extraordinary depth of agreement,'' he said, pointing to a new understanding of the importance of forgiving debts of very poor nations. 
 Over the last several years, private aid groups as well as governments have championed debt forgiveness for poor countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, which often have to spend more money to service their debts than to provide essential services that would help their citizens climb out of poverty.
 The people in these nations live on less than $2 a day. 
 Roughly half of the money for the development program will come from World Bank funds, while donor nations pledged the other half. The United States will provide $950 million this year and about the same amount over the next two years. 
 The largest increases in pledges were made by European nations: France, Britain, Spain and the Nordic countries, Mr. Lamb said. 
 Developing benchmarks to measure the effectiveness of aid was a victory for the Bush administration. Paul H. O'Neill, the former Treasury secretary, first pushed for more rigorous performance standards in 2001. He complained that the World Bank had ''spent an awful large amount of money in the name of development without a great degree of success.'' 
 The increased financing was a particular goal of the European countries that say they fear the world's wealthiest nations are falling behind in their promises to meet the United Nations' goals on reducing poverty. 
 The World Bank provides about 10 percent of all foreign aid. The United States is its biggest contributor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid ; International Relations; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Development Assn

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); NORWAY (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWEDEN (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); FINLAND (75%); DENMARK (70%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (50%) France; Great Britain; Spain; Denmark; Finland; Iceland; Norway; Sweden

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



500 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: A Place To Consider Apocalypse

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Feb. 21 

 BODY:
As a crackling voice begins a countdown to zero, a visitor sitting on a bench in a room resembling a concrete bunker knows precisely what to expect -- particularly since the room is called the Ground Zero Theater and is in the new Atomic Testing Museum, which opened here to the public on Sunday. 
 After the countdown, of course, there would be a blast of sound and, on the screen, the sight of a mushroom cloud erupting from the desert sands. It would resemble one of the 100 above-ground nuclear tests that took place 65 miles from the Las Vegas Strip between 1951 and 1963, at the Nevada Test Site. 
 But in the theater, at the moment of the blast, nearly midway through this museum's unusually sober and informative chronological journey through the history of atomic testing, what was expected is also jolting. In the preceding displays of cultural artifacts and military hardware, of videos showing the development of the cold war and the evolution of atomic testing, and of timelines displaying cultural, political and nuclear history, effects are far less important than information. But here, the impact of the virtual blast is thoroughly visceral. Bursts from air cannons blow against your body imitating the bomb's shock wave; vibrations from subwoofers shake your equanimity. In their theme-park manner, the unexpected effects give some credence to the words of participants in the atomic tests, whose voices are heard in that theater and on video monitors throughout the museum. ''There was never a detonation when you weren't scared,'' one participant said.
 And with good reason. When he witnessed the first atomic blast in 1945, the physicist Robert J. Oppenheimer was reminded of verses from the Bhagavad-Gita: ''I am become Death/ The shatterer of worlds.'' Such awe when faced with mighty and final things was expressed throughout the era of atomic testing. 
 But there was also a great tension in the atomic testing program between that awe and the urge to domesticate it. That tension has left its mark on this museum. At a dedication ceremony on Saturday afternoon the major address was given by Linton F. Brooks, the undersecretary of energy for nuclear security. He said events at the Nevada Testing Site with its 1,375 square miles of desert land, was ''integral to America's nuclear deterrent.''
 Because of the testing program's display of fearsome power during the cold war, Mr. Brooks suggested, ''The apocalypse never came.'' The museum, he said, ''helps us celebrate victory in America's longest war.'' This is why, at the end of the museum's historical survey, a fragment of the Berlin wall is displayed. 
 But as the museum also suggests, another goal of the Nevada testing program was to strip the bombs of the fear and awe they inspired, to make them seem like ordinary weapons that could be tactically used on the battlefield. 
 The military, in fact, was almost zealous in its urge to demystify. The museum's ground zero film shows soldiers using brooms to brush the post-blast dust off each other's uniforms; field operations could lead them to within 2,500 yards of the explosion. (One soldier's dented helmet with goggles is on display.) The exhibition also cites a military leader's comment in 1948 that if atomic testing wasn't conducted within the United States, the lack of direct American experience would result in an ''unhealthy, dangerous and unjustified fear of atomic detonations.'' 
 At any rate, once the Nevada testing program was established, detonations became a feature of American popular culture. Las Vegas featured ''atomic'' hairdos, ''atomic'' beauty pageants, and ''atomic'' souvenirs. Nuclear memorabilia on exhibit here range from atomic cereal box novelties to atomic-bomb-shaped salt and pepper shakers. During the predawn tests, hundreds of cars lined Nevada highways to watch. In 1957 Gladwin Hill wrote in a travel article in The New York Times, ''This is the best year in history for the non-ancient but none the less honorable pastime of atom-bomb watching.'' 
 Even the Civil Defense material of the period seems to make the unthinkable more thinkable. There are government pamphlets on display: ''Defense Against Radioactive Fallout on the Farm'' (1964) or ''Survival Under Atomic Attack'' (1950). 
 Stripping nuclear testing of fear and awe is also one of the goals of the museum itself, which has, after all, come to life in a company town that may once have had as strong a connection to nuclear testing as to gambling. In the early 1960's, Mercury -- the secret village of nuclear workers living on the test site -- was the third-largest city in Utah and the test site had the state's largest single payroll. In 1970 the test site was credited with adding $1 billion a year to the Nevada economy. After testing stopped in 1992 and budgets had shrunk, the site still was judged to have an annual economic impact of $350,000. 
 As for the museum itself, its 8,000-square-foot exhibition space designed by the Canadian firm Andre & Knowlton Associates shares a building with the Desert Research Institute, an environmental research organization that helped found the museum with the Department of Energy. Half the museum's $4.5 million initial costs came from government sources and half from private ones, including corporations still involved at the Nevada Test Site and in military work, like Lockheed Martin and Bechtel Nevada. The museum in fact becomes less compelling as it approaches the present day: it becomes almost promotional in outlining current site activities, which include research with hazardous waste and national defense systems. Displays are devoted to the care taken with the test site's environment, even showing the animals that now thrive on the once-blasted and still-pockmarked desert land. 
 All this means that the history of testing, as told here, is largely the history of its justification. Problems and issues are noted, including the debates about the effects of fallout that grew more intense as the testing proceeded. But such issues are mentioned and then put aside, to get on with the main story. 
 Unfortunately, they should be part of the main story: they are part of the risk that was judged worth the benefits. The entire museum would be stronger if it made those risks more palpable, and more directly addressed the fear knitted into the awe: the reasons, for example, epidemiological studies have asserted that childhood leukemia rose in areas affected by fallout; or the ways the Atomic Energy Commission of the early 1950's has been accused of misjudging the effects of radiation and failing to inform the public fully. These issues led to court cases and still hit very close to the museum's Nevada home, which probably explains their neglect here. 
 Despite this crucial flaw, the museum is still remarkably effective and offers an unusual experience for visitors to Las Vegas who usually explore other forms of risk and benefit. As a Smithsonian affiliate, the museum can share in loans and reach for national prominence. In its historical narrative, some of the peculiarities of nuclear testing begin to make more sense. 
 Some aspects are often portrayed as fairly silly: setting off nuclear blasts, for example, near constructions of ''typical'' American homes, complete with mannequins seated at breakfast tables or near pigs that were dressed in military jackets made of different materials. Yet when atomic war was deemed both unthinkable and possible, these were attempts to understand the nature of these weapons and their effects. 
 When the museum surveys the era of underground testing, it also shows just how extraordinary the scientific aspect of these 828 tests could be: how, for example, events that took place in a blast's first millionth of a second could be studied before the instruments themselves were vaporized.
 Ultimately, too, the museum has the advantage of knowing that the strategy of mutually assured destruction, however mad-seeming, also worked: the development of nuclear weapons ensured that neither side would use them. That means, of course, that at some level, the fear and awe remained intact, despite the plentiful souvenirs and the promises of an atomic utopia. 
 The testing program is now at an end, of course. So is the cold war. Different opponents proliferate; so do different madnesses; and deterrence is weakened. The museum hints as much by displaying a portion of a World Trade Center column not far from its fragment of the Berlin Wall. How will that threat, which may itself become nuclear, be addressed? The museum, despite its accomplishments, leaves many unanswered questions about the past; but this is its gnawing unanswered question about the future. 


CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Wednesday about the Atomic Testing Museum in Las Vegas misstated the location of Mercury, the secret village for those who worked at the Nevada Test Site. It was the third-largest city in Nevada, not Utah.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A visitor looking at a photograph at the Atomic Testing Museum. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Zhan Lim, 11, using a radiation detector at the museum. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); COLD WAR (89%); HISTORY (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); DESERTS (70%) Atomic Weapons; Reviews; Nuclear Tests

ORGANIZATION: Atomic Testing Museum (Las Vegas)

PERSON: Edward Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



501 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Liquidnet Finds Value In Large Blocks of Stock
A privately held company called Liquidnet, which has pioneered an electronic marketplace that allows institutional investors to trade large blocks of stock anonymously, has just completed a financing deal that values the company at $1.8 billion, according to a person close to the transaction.
 By comparison, the publicly traded electronic network leader, Archipelago, has a market value of $873 million. [Page C2.]

Ex-Ad Agency Officials Found Guilty
Two former high-ranking executives of the New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide were found guilty of defrauding the government. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C4.]

Insurance Inquiry in California
California's insurance commissioner is investigating several insurers that appeared to be overcharging home buyers for title insurance, then splitting the fees with the people who had steered the business to them. [C2.]

Home Depot Earnings Rise 9.5%
Home Depot said its fourth-quarter earnings rose 9.5 percent, the smallest gain in almost two years. Shares fell after the company failed to continue its eight-quarter streak of beating analysts estimates. The company plans to add stores in Canada and Mexico in anticipation of slowing United States sales. [C4.]

Regulation of Data Firms Is Urged
The stock price of the data broker ChoicePoint fell amid calls for closer regulation of companies that compile large databases of consumer information. [C6.]

Major Stock Gauges Post Declines
Stocks fell as oil prices rose. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 174.02 points, to 10,611.20, the largest retreat since Aug. 5. The S.&P. 500 dropped 17.43 points to 1,184.16, its worst performance since Aug. 6. The Nasdaq composite index slid 28.30 points, to 2,030.32. [C12.]

Staying in Social Security Debate
Though President Bush has said that people over 55 would not be affected by his proposed Social Security changes, the elderly are refusing to be shut out of the debate. [A16.]

More Funding for Poorest Nations
The world's wealthiest countries agreed to increase aid to the world's poorest nations by raising their contributions to the World Bank's international development program. [C10.]

Toshiba Appoints a New President
The Japanese electronics giant Toshiba said that it had appointed Atsutoshi Nishida, left, a man credited with twice turning around its computer business, to be its new president. Mr. Nishida, 61, will replace Tadashi Okamura, 66, who will become chairman. The change is happening as Toshiba scrambles to cut costs to keep pace with falling prices. [C6.]

Underground Hopes for Venice
The mayor of Venice says a subway running from the mainland to the center of town would revitalize the city economically. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,611.20 down 174.02Nasdaq composite -- 2,030.32 down 28.3010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.29 up 0.03The euro -- 1.3257 up 0.0190The dollar -- 104.09 down 1.55Graph: ''TODAY'' shows consumer prices from July to December.Consumer PricesJanuary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Home Depot shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); MAYORS (75%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); TITLE INSURANCE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LIQUIDNET HOLDINGS INC (91%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (83%); TOSHIBA CORP (82%); CHOICEPOINT INC (55%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (82%); 6502 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (55%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



502 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: ChoicePoint Suffers Fall In Share Price

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
The stock price of the giant data broker ChoicePoint fell by more than 9 percent yesterday, as privacy-rights advocates, industry experts and officials in at least two states -- Georgia and Illinois -- called for closer regulation of companies that compile large databases of consumer information. 
 ChoicePoint sells personal data to potential employers, landlords and others conducting background checks on individuals. It revealed last week that it had been duped last year into delivering personal financial and background data on thousands of American consumers to thieves posing as legitimate business customers. The company said it had not disclosed the breach earlier because law enforcement officials had been looking into the matter. 
 On Monday, ChoicePoint, which is based in suburban Atlanta, released a state-by-state breakdown of consumers it said had been affected by the fraud. Information on a total of 144,778 individuals -- 35,000 of them in California -- had been released to the imposters, according to the company, although investigators have said that the number could be much higher. 
 The company says it does not know how many of those individuals had actually been victims of identity theft. But law enforcement officials have said that at least 750 consumers so far have been informed that their information was somehow compromised. 
 According to ChoicePoint, the criminals used stolen identities to create false business documents in order to pose as legitimate clients of ChoicePoint's services, which include supplying Social Security numbers, drivers license information, bankruptcy proceedings and other information used in performing background checks. 
 The company says it has mailed notification to the affected consumers, who should all receive their letters by the end of the week. It also says it will re-assess the credentials of some 17,000 small business clients and will pay for one year of credit monitoring for those whose information was leaked. 
 ''Financial fraud and identify theft are pervasive problems in the economy,'' the company said in a statement released on Monday. ''While ChoicePoint offers a wide range of tools to help detect fraud, no one -- including us -- is immune from it.'' The company did not return telephone calls or e-mail yesterday seeking comment. 
 The company's stock fell $4.20 to close at $39.30 yesterday.
 Privacy rights advocates say that because such security breaches are inevitable, regulators should begin monitoring an industry that so far has operated with no real government oversight. 
 Beth Givens, the director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a consumer protection group in California, yesterday called for an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission. 
 The company said that worried consumers should contact one of the major credit reporting bureaus to check for signs of suspicious activity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); DEREGULATION (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%) Computers and the Internet; Identity Fraud; Consumer Protection; Privacy; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: CHOICEPOINT INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Choicepoint Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (92%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: Tom Jr Zeller

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Georgia; Illinois

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



503 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Plunges on Proposal By Korea Bank to Diversify

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; Jonathan Fuerbringer, in New York, contributed reporting for this article.; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
The dollar dropped on Tuesday after the Bank of Korea said it would step up purchases of assets denominated in other currencies.
 In late trading in New York, the euro settled at $1.3257, up from $1.3067 on Friday, while the dollar fell to 104.09 yen from 105.64. Financial markets in the United States were closed on Monday in observance of Presidents' Day. 
 ''The markets are so skittish right now that seemingly marginal news can have a big impact on the dollar,'' said Julian Callow, chief European economist with Barclays in London.
 Contributing to that skittishness are questions about the intentions of central banks regarding the dollar. Russia's central bank has said it is rethinking what proportion of dollars and euros it holds. Some Middle Eastern countries have also suggested they might step up their purchases of euros, at the expense of dollars. 
 Japan, which has the world's largest stockpile of foreign currency at $841 billion, has indicated it will continue to accumulate American assets, while China, in second with about $600 billion, has not been buying much more. South Korea's holdings rank fourth, at about $200 billion, behind Taiwan. 
 The Bank of Korea indicated in a report to the South Korean parliament that it might keep more of its reserve assets in Australian and Canadian dollars instead of United States dollars. The plan was reported on Monday but had little effect on currency traders, in part because the United States markets were closed. On Tuesday, the news led to a quick strengthening of Asian currencies against the dollar and then contributed to the rise in the euro.
 Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Bank of America, said that he did not think that the Bank of Korea's plan indicated a significant shift out of dollar reserves and thus did not set a precedent for other Asian central banks.
 He added that currency traders used the news ''as a rationalization to sell dollars.'' 
 He said he thought the Bank of Korea was moving toward setting up a money-managing entity that would be responsible for investing a portion of its reserves. One goal would be increasing the return on the reserves by investing in fixed-income securities with lower credit quality and higher yields, he said. He also said such an entity would improve the expertise in the Seoul financial community for investing in global markets.
 Any shift of the reserves held by central banks in Asia and elsewhere out of dollars and into other currencies would certainly affect the value of the dollar. ''Hypothetically this could have a significant impact,'' Mr. Sinche said. 
 He noted, however, that the dollar was already being undermined by fears that the flow of investment from abroad will not be enough to cover the nation's record current-account deficit and that this would not be the time for the world's central banks to weaken the dollar further.
 ''In a finely balanced market,'' he said, ''it is not clear that it is in anyone's interest right now to upset the global financial system.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (64%) Currency

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



504 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Developers in Las Vegas Put Money on Furniture

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
On a muddy construction site in the northern edge of this city's downtown area, the developer Jack Shahani gestured south toward the skyline of the famed casino Strip. ''There are 140,000 hotel rooms here. That is why we are building it here,'' he said, referring to the 1.3-million-square-foot, $220 million World Market Center.
 Mr. Shahani is co-managing partner for the building, the first wholesale furniture mart in a city better known for extravagant casinos and stage shows.
 The building, designed by the Jerde Partnership of Los Angeles, is not wholly immune to Las Vegas-style flamboyance. The 10-story facade of the building is punctuated with swooping arcs, like a half moon at the center, made of reflective metal panels. 
 For the developers -- a venture of World Market Center L.L.C. of Los Angeles and the Related Companies of New York -- the World Market Center is an attempt to establish Las Vegas as a leading national center of furniture wholesaling to merchants and developers.
 For city officials, the project, which is to expand in five years into six buildings encompassing 7.5 million square feet, is a welcome sign of business diversification in a fast-growing city with a narrow economic base.
 And for the wholesale furniture industry, the development is being closely watched as a potential new competitor to a handful of centers in Atlanta, Chicago, New York and San Francisco, as well as in High Point, N.C., and Tupelo, Miss., which until now have had the wholesale furniture business largely to themselves.
 Although the notion of Sin City as a wholesale furniture hub may draw derisive snorts in some showrooms in San Francisco and High Point, Las Vegas is a credible candidate to be market center, said Steven E. Francis, a sales representative for seven furniture makers, who also maintains his own showroom in Laguna Beach, Calif. 
 ''Las Vegas has evolved continuously as a community, and people love to go there,'' he said. ''The air fare is cheap, and there are plenty of hotel rooms.'' 
 High Point, in contrast, has one of the largest furniture marts in the country, but only 1,093 hotel rooms inside city limits, according to the High Point Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''I've had people tell me, 'I would go to High Point if I could get a hotel room,''' Mr. Francis said. ''It's a real problem.'' 
 One distinction of the Las Vegas venue, according to the developers, is that the building will combine the functions of the traditional showroom with those of a trade show. The first two stories are to be traditional furniture showrooms that are open year-round to designers and wholesale buyers. The upper eight stories of the building, however, will be leased by manufacturers for the whole year but open only during trade shows or by special appointment. 
 While combining conventional showrooms and year-round trade exhibits is not unique to Las Vegas, ''it's never been done on this scale before,'' said Shawn Samson, co-managing partner of World Market Center. 
 Renting exhibition space permanently to be used for only a handful of days a year may seem counterintuitive, but such an arrangement has advantages for furniture manufacturers who find it cost-effective to maintain a single showroom, rather than to bear the cost of shipping, erecting and dismantling a trade show booth every year.
 In addition, according to the developers, a permanent space will allow the furniture makers to show their goods to the developers and designers who work in the superheated construction industry in Las Vegas. At least 23 high-rise condominium towers are either under construction or expected to break ground soon, according to the city's Office of Business Development. 
 If developers want to view furniture, ''we turn on the lights and the lifts for them,'' Mr. Samson said. 
 The concept seems to have been well received so far, to judge by leasing. The entire building was leased, with 230 tenants, more than a year before opening, which is scheduled for July, when a trade show is scheduled. According to the developers, about 80 percent of those tenants also have showrooms in San Francisco, the largest regional rival, while a few have left the Bay Area for Las Vegas. 
 The developers claim that there is a long waiting list for the first location, and they are confident enough to start construction on a 1.6-million-square-foot second phase in June. For the building's initial show, the developers plan to provide 350,000 square feet of temporary exhibition space, in the form of long tents, to accommodate the trade show exhibitors.
 The appearance of the furniture industry in Las Vegas was a brainchild of the developers, not the city's economic development officials. The proximity of the airport to both the casinos and the city's convention center has made the Las Vegas a near-ideal location for conventions and trade shows, which fuel much of the local economy.
 The city's ample inventory of hotel rooms is an obvious requirement to stage the large-scale conventions for the furniture industry, which can attract at least 50,000 buyers, according to Mr. Samson. 
 The continuing growth of the city is another lure for showroom operators, according to Mr. Adams, the city official. In the 1990's, Las Vegas's population grew by 88 percent, according to census figures. ''We are getting 7,000 to 8,000 people a month, and it shows no sign of abating,'' Mr. Adams said. The current population of Clark County, which includes the city, is 1.7 million.
 ''We grew very rapidly as a region, and community development was lagging the growth driven by the gaming industry,'' Mr. Adams said. ''It has taken time to catch up. Now we are seeing other industries grow that are absolutely necessary to the total economic base.''
 The unexpected appearance of the furniture industry ''takes the local economy in a new direction,'' according to Mr. Adams.
 ''Our economic base is rather shallow and has been driven by gaming, tourism and entertainment, with real estate and construction a distant second,'' he added. The furniture mart ''gives us an opportunity to diversify.''
 Viewed as real estate, the World Market Center is an example of the development potential of abandoned rail yards in major urban areas.
 The Union Pacific Railroad was the last rail-oriented owner of the 57-acre furniture mart site, as well as 61 adjoining acres. The city obtained the land during the 1990's in a land swap with the railroad, which accepted a suburban business park in exchange for the downtown site. After several years of negotiations, the city sold the land to the developers.
 The furniture mart is not the only new project planned for the former railroad property. To the immediate west, on the remaining land, the Related Companies, which developed the Time Warner Center in Manhattan, is the lead developer of an 8.5-million-square-foot mixed-use project, which is to be home to a baseball stadium, a performing arts center, an academic health center, office space and housing. The project is still in the planning phase and no construction dates have been set. 
 Combined, the World Market Center and the neighboring mixed-use project will be ''virtually a city unto itself,'' Mr. Adams said. 
 Such large-scale thinking is not out of place in Las Vegas, where construction budgets for individual casino-hotels can run into billions of dollars. ''We do things in a big way,'' Mr. Adams said. Those mega-projects, he added, ''have a way of working out successfully, in spite of sometimes being outrageous in scale.''


CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A Commercial Real Estate article in Business Day last Wednesday about the construction of a wholesale furniture mart in Las Vegas misstated the surname of a co-managing partner of the project. He is Jack Kashani, not Shahani. The article also omitted the given name and title of a city official who commented about the potentially positive economic impact of the furniture industry. He is Scott Adams, director of business development for Las Vegas. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The World Market Center, a wholesale furniture mart with 1.3 million square feet of showroom space, is under construction in Las Vegas. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS WHOLESALERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); FURNITURE STORES (89%); FURNITURE MFG (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (65%); TRADE SHOWS (64%) Furniture; Renting and Leasing; World Market Center (Las Vegas); Trade Shows and Fairs

ORGANIZATION: World Market Center LLC; Related Companies

PERSON: Morris Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



505 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; BUSH IN EUROPE: BRUSSELS TALKS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: BUSH SAYS EUROPE SHOULD NOT LIFT CHINA ARMS BAN

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
A simmering dispute with Europe came to the forefront on Tuesday when President Bush said there was ''deep concern'' in the United States that lifting the European Union's arms embargo against China would change the balance of relations between China and Taiwan. 
 The issue has been one of the few disagreements to spill into the open during Mr. Bush's trip to repair relations across the Atlantic. He and European leaders have worked intently to ease hard feelings over the Iraq invasion, and they have played down the conflict that has risen in the last few months over the arms embargo. Even as he expressed his concerns on Tuesday, Mr. Bush insisted that he was willing to listen to European views on the issue. 
 In his most explicit public argument, the president said lifting the ban would allow the transfer of critical military technology to the Chinese that would ''change the balance of relations between China and Taiwan, and that's of concern.'' 
 The administration also fears that such technology, especially advanced radar and communications systems, might be passed on to other countries.
 Mr. Bush spoke at a joint news conference with the secretary general of NATO, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, after a summit meeting of alliance leaders agreed to help train security officers for Iraq. [Page A7.] 
 For Europe, the end of the embargo, which was imposed in 1989 after China's crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square, would open a profitable new avenue for arms sales. But leaders also say allowing the sales, which they propose to do by June, would be an important way to forge ties with China. 
 President Jacques Chirac of France said Tuesday that Europe remained steadfast in its desire to end the ban. He said that ''we intend to lift the last obstacles in our relations'' with China. But he also said the ban should be lifted ''under conditions that Europe and the United States define together.''
 Officials on both sides said that underneath the diplomatic words was a deep philosophical divide, and that the Americans were taking a hard line against European willingness to engage the Chinese in negotiations and promises.
 The European Union is almost certain to lift the 15-year-long embargo by June, but it has tried to quell American fears by saying it will limit the transfer of advanced technology to the Chinese by developing a tough new ''code of conduct'' for arms exports.
 Mr. Bush said he was interested in looking at that code of conduct, and went so far as to say on his second day of a four-day trip to Belgium, Germany and Slovakia that he was on a ''listening tour.'' But he expressed skepticism about the ability of the Europeans to come up with a proposal for curbing the transfer of technology to the Chinese that would satisfy the United States.
 ''Whether they can or not, we'll see,'' he said.
 A senior Bush administration official who briefed reporters on Monday night was far more unequivocal about the administration's opposition. ''We remain concerned,'' the official said. ''I should not leave you in any way with the impression that we have changed our view. We have merely heard out the Europeans. I expect that a dialogue -- a friendly, serious dialogue about these issues -- will continue.''
 Bush administration officials are most concerned that lifting the embargo would allow the Europeans to sell such advanced technology to the Chinese that they will be able to move to a ''next generation'' warfare capacity and develop the kind of sophisticated military systems that the United States has used in Afghanistan and Iraq. Such systems could include advanced airborne radar and communications systems, possibly similar to the American E-8C Joint Stars aircraft that help give commanders the ability to reroute troops and airstrikes quickly on the battlefield. 
 ''The administration is not concerned at this time that the Europeans are going to start selling fighter jets, missiles and tanks to the Chinese,'' said Robin Niblett, the director of the European program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 In his news conference, Mr. Bush also told the Europeans that when they settled on their new code of conduct, they needed to ''sell it to the United States Congress.''
 The president, who mentioned the problems with Congress during a small dinner he gave for Mr. Chirac on Monday night, was alluding to rising concern from both Republicans and Democrats in Congress about Europe's plans to lift the embargo. 
 Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in an interview in The Financial Times on Friday that he would support restrictions on American sales of advanced military technology to Europe unless there were strong assurances from Europe that such technology would not be diverted to China when the embargo was lifted. He also said that if lifting the embargo were to result in such a diversion, he would support restrictions on the sales of American weapons technology to Europe.
 Earlier this month, the House of Representatives passed a resolution by a 411-3 vote that condemned the European Union's plans.
 Andy Fisher, Mr. Lugar's spokesman, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday after Mr. Bush made his remarks that Mr. Lugar was most concerned about advanced military technology passing from China to a ''rogue element'' that could use it against the United States.
 The Department of Defense annual report on China's military last year raised another possible effect of lifting the European arms sales. It said that although Russia would most likely still be the primary supplier of advanced weapons to China, with Europe acting as ''an emerging supplier,'' the new sales would also ''enhance China's leverage in negotiating purchases,'' making even more advanced weapons systems and technology available.
 European leaders say changes they are making to their code of conduct on arms exports, first adopted in 1998, would substantially limit sales of technology to China. Among the proposed changes would be information sharing, meaning that the European Union would inform Washington of any arms sales to China that would have been prohibited under the embargo. Such information would theoretically allow the United States to track sales and potentially keep weapons out of the wrong hands.
 The Bush administration has countered that it wants more specifics from European officials about how a revised code of conduct would work in practice. ''The E.U. has made certain statements, certain declarations about the hypothetical effect of lifting the arms embargo -- that is, no increase qualitatively, no increase quantitatively,'' the senior administration official said in the briefing. ''So we would like to know what that means, how this would be enforced, how this would be carried out, in view of the real-world situation.''
 The Bush administration also opposes lifting the embargo because in its view the Chinese are still engaged in the human rights abuses, like the arrests of dissidents, that initially caused the embargo. ''The reasons for the arms embargo being imposed in the first place -- that is, Tiananmen and the arrests -- have not materially changed,'' the administration official said. ''The people arrested are still in prison, the human rights situation is not appreciably better.''
 Later in the day, Mr. Bush met with European leaders at the headquarters of the European Union, and at a news conference afterward reiterated that the United States was not on the verge of war with Iran. But he did not rule out, as he has not in the past, military action. 
 ''This notion that the United States is getting ready to attack Iran is simply ridiculous,'' he said, then added, to some laughter in the room, ''and having said that, all options are on the table.''
 Mr. Bush had a working dinner with European leaders, and then is headed on Wednesday for meetings with the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, in Mainz. On Thursday in Bratislava, Slovakia, he will meet with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush was flanked yesterday by President Jacques Chirac of France, left, and Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, president of the European Union, at an official portrait session in Brussels. The woman at right is President Tarja Halonen of Finland. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); ARMS EMBARGOES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); ARMS TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); RADAR SYSTEMS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Arms Sales Abroad; United States International Relations; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) European Union; North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); JAAP DE HOOP SCHEFFER (79%); TARJA HALONEN (78%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; George W (Pres) Bush; Jean-Claude (Prime Min) Juncker; Tarja (Pres) Halonen; Jaap De Hoop (Sec Gen) Scheffer

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) CHINA (98%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (92%); SLOVAKIA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); GERMANY (79%); FINLAND (79%) China; Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



506 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Says Shea Isn't Fit for the Olympics

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Shea Stadium might be good enough for Mets fans, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that the 40-year-old ballpark in Queens would never meet the lofty expectations of the International Olympic Committee.
 In Mr. Bloomberg's opinion, the stadium in Flushing Meadows lacks the ''order of magnitude or grandeur'' needed to impress the Olympic delegation that is visiting New York this week to weigh the city's bid to play host to the 2012 Summer Games. An important part of the bid is a stadium for the Games, which the Bloomberg administration wants to build on the West Side of Manhattan. 
 Rejecting suggestions that Shea or a new venue in Flushing Meadows be considered, the mayor said that Queens cannot measure up in terms of the economic benefits that Manhattan offers stadium developers. 
 The West Side stadium would be built by the New York Jets, ''who would not have the same amount of money to do it in Queens,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters at a press conference in Queens where he was promoting a tax benefit for film and television producers.
 ''The trouble is that the economics don't work for a stadium of this size because you can't sell naming rights and boxes outside of Manhattan for what you can sell in Manhattan,'' he said. ''That's just a fact of life.''
 As the mayor delivered his dispassionate analysis of the relative inferiorities of Queens and its oft-maligned stadium, Helen Marshall, the Queens borough president, stood at his side. Afterward, Ms. Marshall declined to take issue with the mayor, and played down his comments.
 ''He doesn't say that all the time,'' she said, adding that under the city's Olympic plan, Queens would play host to ''70 percent of the venues'' for the events. She said Shea Stadium needed a major revitalization because ''we can't continue to patch it up.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's remarks were part of a lengthy and vigorous defense of his plans for a West Side stadium. His plans have been slowed by opposing bids from developers who are also interested in the Manhattan site where Mr. Bloomberg wants to build the stadium. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority owns the site and has said it wants the most money it can get for it.
 The latest proposal came from TransGas, an energy company that said it would pay $700 million for the development rights, which is $600 million more than what the Jets have offered for the rights. Yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg dismissed the TransGas offer as ''not a legitimate bid.''
 New York's Olympic organizers have, in the past, investigated other potential stadium locales, including Shea, but they insist they do not currently have an alternative to the West Side plan. Asked yesterday why the city did not consider using Shea Stadium as a backup in case the West Side project falls through, the mayor said the point was moot.
 ''You should get on a plane and go to see the places where the Olympics have taken place,'' he said. ''You will realize that Shea Stadium is not of the same order of magnitude or grandeur that the I.O.C. wants for the Olympics. Nor is it of the same order of magnitude or grandeur that the other cities have promised to either build or already have.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%); NEW YORK JETS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



507 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Some Inheritance

 BODY:
As he stumps for Social Security privatization, President Bush always gets a big round of applause for promising that the money in a private account could be passed on to one's heirs. 
 If those happy clappers only knew the details. 
 Under the president's proposal, when you retired you would not be able to start spending the money in your private account until after you bought an annuity, a financial contract in which you hand over a lump-sum payment and, in return, get a monthly stream of income for life. The upside of buying such an annuity would be that you'd be protected against outliving all of your money. The downside is that even if you died immediately after retirement, the most your heirs would inherit would be the amount that remained in your private account after you had paid for the mandatory annuity. (If you lived longer, of course, you might well need to spend the remainder to supplement the annuity's low monthly payout. ) 
 The idea of making the private accounts part of one's estate is particularly appealing to low-and middle-income earners, who may not have all that much to leave to their heirs under normal circumstances. But those are exactly the people who would have to use the largest share of their accounts to buy annuities. The government would require that annuities be large enough to keep recipients above the poverty line for life. The less you had to start with, the less you'd have left over after buying the mandatory annuity. 
 What if you died before you retired? As with many claims Mr. Bush makes about Social Security privatization, the fate of your private account in the event of your untimely death is unclear. But one issue that raises big doubts about whether that money could be inherited is the question of how the trillions of dollars the government would have to borrow to set up a privatized system would be repaid.
 Under the president's proposal, when you retired, your traditional Social Security retirement benefit would be cut by an amount equal to all the deposits you had made into your private account plus interest. (The interest would be three percentage points higher than the rate of inflation.) The benefit cut would be each person's contribution to repaying the huge debt the Bush administration would take on to ''pay for'' privatization. 
 But if you died before you retired, you would have already used some of that borrowed money to set up the private account and yet would never have made any contribution to repaying the debt. So in that case, how would the government recoup your share of the amount it had borrowed? Well, it could let your share of the debt go unpaid -- in effect bequeathing to your heirs and their fellow citizens ever-higher deficits. Or your spouse could inherit your private account and the benefit cut that went with it. Or the government could take its cut from your private account before the money went to your survivors -- a grab that could wipe out your stash.
 The White House would hotly deny that the last alternative could happen. Nothing freaks out the Bush administration more than the suggestion that the government would ever tap someone's private account -- even for money that is owed to the government. It doesn't, however, seem too bothered about gutting your traditional benefits. Go figure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); WILLS (88%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Social Security (US); Editorials; Privatization; Wills and Estates; Annuities

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



508 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: High School Reform, Round 1

 BODY:
President Bush raised the country's hopes last month when he previewed a $1.5 billion initiative that would promote desperately needed reform in the American high school system. The package laid out in the president's budget proposal touches on many of the right issues, but it is underfinanced and poorly conceived -- and dead on arrival in Congress, which has signaled its intent to ignore crucial provisions of Mr. Bush's proposal. The White House, which failed to push for adequate funds for its last big education initiative, the No Child Left Behind Act, has only itself to blame for failing to do the necessary preparation before unveiling this big idea. Nevertheless, Congress should understand what's at stake here. As school reform grinds to a halt in Washington, American students are falling further and further behind their peers in Asia and Europe, where universally accessible quality schools are producing highly skilled workers at a rate that far outstrips schools in the United States. 
 The traditional American high school, as conceived a century ago, was never meant to produce well-educated workers in the numbers required by today's economy. Remaking the system so American students catch up with their peers abroad will require several big changes. The curriculum must become far more rigorous across the board, and that can happen only if teachers improve. The schools must offer broad-based remedial instruction to help the eye-popping 70 percent of students who arrive at high school reading too poorly to absorb the complex subject matter they will be required to cover. The system must also develop ways to ensure that students leave school with problem-solving and communication skills that will allow them to thrive in the information economy.
 President Bush wants to extend right into high school the testing requirements that are mandated for the lower grades under No Child Left Behind. This page has been second to none in supporting systematic testing, but talking about tests without first addressing all the things that are wrong with the current system is putting the cart before the horse.
 Mr. Bush has also proposed a package of academic interventions for struggling students that he would pay for mainly by killing off a $1.3 billion federally financed vocational education program. This figure is far short of what's needed to renovate America's ailing high school system. But the president's underlying point -- that many vocational education programs obstruct academic achievement -- is perfectly valid. The low-end programs prepare students for low-skill jobs that no longer exist. Worst of all, they commonly become dumping grounds for poor and minority students, who are pushed through shop classes -- with no academics to speak of -- and then deposited on the street after graduating with meaningless diplomas. Shockingly, the typical American high school student earns more credits in vocational education than in either math or science.
 The only way to justify keeping vocational programs is to make sure that they offer a sound academic grounding along with preparation for the new economy's high-skill jobs, instead of just wood shop and fender pounding. At the moment, however, some in Congress would like to push in exactly the wrong way by exempting vocational programs from even the inadequate current academic standards.
 Many members of Congress have gotten heat from their districts about the demands made by the current No Child Left Behind standards, and getting them to push for further improvements in quality will be hard. Mr. Bush made a tactical error by failing to prepare the political ground in advance, but the game is not yet lost. Taking aim at vocational education is an excellent way to get high school reform off the ground -- but only if the Bush administration will use its political muscle and go public with its case. The opportunity will be missed if the president throws up his hands and slinks away. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); NEW ECONOMY (71%) Education and Schools; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Labor; Vocational Training; Education and Schools

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (56%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



509 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; BUSH IN EUROPE: DIPLOMACY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Bush May Feel Chilly Blast From Russians, Envoy Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 22 

 BODY:
President Bush's determined effort to raise Russia's crackdown on independent businesses and internal dissent with President Vladimir V. Putin when they meet this week is likely to get a tart response, according to the Russian ambassador to the United States, Yuri Ushakov. 
 In written answers to questions submitted by The New York Times before Mr. Bush left for Europe on Sunday, Mr. Ushakov said Mr. Putin was likely to respond to Mr. Bush's criticism by raising ''our own concerns about the situation in the United States and certain troubling aspects of Washington's policies.'' 
 He noted that ''parts of public opinion in Russia are not necessarily supportive of some of America's actions in certain regions of the world'' and that ''there are others who are highly critical of your electoral system.''
 Mr. Ushakov did not offer specifics, but Bush administration officials suggested that he was referring to such matters as the detention of prisoners at Abu Ghraib in Iraq and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and the 2000 presidential election, in which the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Mr. Bush in a recount dispute, effectively securing his victory. 
 The ambassador's comments provided a glimpse into the difficulties of relations with Russia, which have been strained by recent actions in Moscow and also apparently by the administration's support for the pro-Western presidential candidate in Ukraine and its decision, signaled in Mr. Bush's inaugural address, to make democratic freedoms more of a centerpiece of American foreign policy.
 Starting a little more than a year ago, the Bush administration began to publicly raise its concerns over Russia's internal practices, particularly the seizure of independent businesses and prosecution of business executives, and more recently over Mr. Putin's efforts to cement his control of the political process.
 Two weeks ago, when Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, in Ankara, Turkey -- a meeting held to plan the one this week in Slovakia between Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin -- a senior official briefing reporters that evening under ground rules of anonymity said she elevated domestic Russian concerns in importance in her talks. But he gave no details.
 This week, after Ambassador Ushakov's written responses were received, another senior administration official said he was ''familiar with the whole Russian whine list'' of complaints often directed at the United States' domestic policies.
 But even after the Rice-Lavrov session, and talks among officials afterward to prepare for the meeting, two top American officials said they could not be certain what Mr. Putin would raise with Mr. Bush. What Mr. Ushakov's comments seemed to show was a Russian determination to acknowledge some difficulties in trying to combat terrorism but to view any effort by Mr. Bush to discuss Russian domestic matters with firm rebuttals, explanations and counterarguments rather than promises to change anything.
 ''Russia is open to legitimate criticism,'' Mr. Ushakov said. ''We are aware of our shortcomings on the domestic front and the challenges we still face in overcoming the multitude of complex problems we inherited from the recent and not so recent past.''
 He cited the ''terrible tragedy in Beslan,'' referring to the school hostage siege that led to more than 300 deaths, half of them school children, last September, saying that afterward ''it became increasingly obvious that some of our rules of governance need to be adjusted to ensure more security to our people and integrity of the country.''
 Mr. Ushakov said that Russia also had ''to take substantial steps against some unlawful business practices hurting our economy'' and that, contrary to American criticism, ''all this by no means constitutes a backslide from our commitment to market economy, democracy, civil society and the rule of law.''
 Finally, the ambassador said, ''each country has a unique set of circumstances, different historical and cultural backgrounds'' and that ''what's good for one country might not work elsewhere.''
 In Brussels for meetings with European leaders, Mr. Bush said Tuesday that he thought it ''very important that President Putin hear not only from me in a private way, which he will, but also hear some of the concerns I heard around the table today.''
 The Bush administration has been upset in particular by the seizure of the oil giant Yukos, the prosecution of its executives and other actions that seem to suggest a new intolerance of independent business power in Russia. In addition, the United States has objected to Mr. Putin's move to end the popular election of regional governors and to make parliamentary voting based on party slates rather than individuals.
 Senators John McCain, a Republican from Arizona, and Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, have called on the United States to remove Russia from the so-called Group of 8, the leading industrial countries, on the basis of its domestic political record.
 Bush administration officials have rejected such a step, however.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Yuri Ushakov, the Russian ambassador, says Moscow may chide U.S. policy in ''certain regions.'' (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); TERRORISM (60%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (59%) United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%) Steven R Weisman; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; George W (Pres) Bush; Yuri (Amb) Ushakov

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); TURKEY (92%); CUBA (87%); SLOVAKIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Russia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



510 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Governors Seek Rise in High School Standards

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
Citing the paltry skills of many high school graduates, the nation's governors are calling for more rigorous standards and harder exams than states have already imposed, often with considerable difficulty. 
 Despite the zeal for academic standards and exit exams that has swept across states in recent years, a high school diploma does little to ensure that graduates are capable of handling the work awaiting them in college or in the workplace, the National Governors Association said in a report issued yesterday. Graduation requirements remain so universally inadequate that it is possible to earn a diploma anywhere in the nation and still lack the basic skills required by colleges and employers, the governors reported. 
 Indeed, more than 4 in 10 public high school students who manage to graduate are unprepared for either college courses or anything beyond an entry-level job, the governors reported, requiring billions of dollars in remedial training to endow them with the skills ''they should have attained in high school.'' 
 ''We must restore the value to a high school diploma,'' said Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia, a Democrat who is the chairman of the governors association. ''Put simply, our standards have not kept pace with the world or the global economy.''
 He added, ''We must push our students harder and expect more from them.''
 Many of the proposals the governors are considering are consistent with the tenets of President Bush's signature No Child Left Behind law: higher aspirations for student achievement and graduation rates, close monitoring of improvement and, should progress fail to come, stiff consequences.
 But in other ways, the agenda is more ambitious than the federal law, a potential bone of contention considering that states have widely complained that No Child Left Behind is already far too onerous. This month, for example, the Utah House of Representatives unanimously approved a bill ordering local officials to spend as little state money as possible to comply with it.
 To begin with, the governors association is proposing that states regularly test their high school students. Federal law requires such tests largely in the lower grades, though President Bush has proposed imposing greater scrutiny on high schools. Beyond that, the governors' agenda not only calls upon states to adopt and achieve clear academic standards, as federal law does, but also urges setting those standards high enough to satisfy colleges and employers -- something the governors say that few states, if any, have done. 
 ''Now that we have academic standards in place, we must ensure that they are the right standards,'' said Gov. Bob Taft of Ohio, a Republican who is the co-chairman of Achieve, an organization created by governors and business leaders to promote academic standards that wrote the report with the governors association.
 Mr. Taft added, ''Most states have not yet set the bar high enough.''
 Despite such lofty goals, the governors association says that states will be the ones controlling the ''redesign'' of their high schools, and therefore will be relatively free from the bureaucratic constraints accompanying the federal education agenda. 
 ''It's not so much about how to get there, as long as you get there,'' said Dane Linn, education director of the governors association, which is asking its members to draft plans to strengthen their own state curriculums. ''It's not something we want the feds to come down and tell the states how to do.''
 The opportunities for friction are manifold. Educators and children's advocates have mounted fierce opposition to exit exams and other test-heavy changes in education, largely out of concerns that struggling students will be more likely to drop out and that teachers will simply teach to the test at hand, hampering the development of broader skills in thinking. 
 When Mr. Warner looked at the exit exams of 13 other states in 2003, for example, he said that nine of those ''that talked tough about high stakes had retreated and pulled back from their consequences.'' In that light, getting states to adopt an even stricter curriculum than they already have, and then possibly denying diplomas to those who have failed to master it may not be easy. 
 ''The idea of consequences, and sticking to your guns about it, that is still is very controversial,'' Mr. Warner said. 
 Even so, some education advocates applauded the idea of injecting more rigor into state standards and curriculums, especially with the ultimate goal of improving graduation rates and getting more students into college or better paying jobs. 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (94%); HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); APPROVALS (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%) Education and Schools; States (US) ; Tests and Testing; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: National Governors Assn

PERSON: MARK WARNER (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2005



511 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Wal-Mart Ordered to Pay Ex-Employee $7.5 Million
A federal jury found that Wal-Mart Stores discriminated against a disabled Long Island man who briefly held a job at its store in Centereach, N.Y., and ordered the company to pay him $7.5 million in damages.
 The plaintiff, who has cerebral palsy, applied for a job in the Wal-Mart pharmacy department in the summer of 2002 and said he quit not long after he was reassigned to other responsibilities, including collecting garbage and shopping carts from the parking lot. [C3.]

Facing intense opposition, a large real estate developer has dropped its plans to include a Wal-Mart store in a Queens shopping complex, thwarting the company's plan to open its first store in New York City. [A1.]

Medco to Buy Specialty Drug Firm
Medco Health Solutions, the big pharmacy benefits manager, agreed to purchase Accredo Health, a fast-growing distributor of expensive specialty drugs for high-risk patients. The price was $2.2 billion in cash and Medco stock. With the purchase, Medco said it would have $4.2 billion in specialty drug revenue. [C5.]

Medical Work Is Moving Offshore
The shifting of employment to countries like India and China is spreading to America's medical and drug industries. [A1.]

Indian businesses are growing as drug makers send clinical trial work there. [C4.]

More Fannie Mae Problems Found
Fannie Mae said that its primary regulator had discovered a host of new potential accounting violations. [C8.]

Cablevision Has Loss for Quarter
Cablevision Systems reported that its quarterly losses widened, but its number of customers increased, and the share price rose. [C15.]

With its founder poised to emerge from prison next month, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia reported steep losses for last year. [C7.]

New Concerns on Japan's Economy
A steep drop in Japan's trade surplus, combined with rising oil prices, raised concerns that its economic slump could continue. [C4.]

Stock Market Shows Gains
The Dow Jones industrials average rose 62.59 points, to 10,673.79. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.64 points, to 1,190.80. The Nasdaq composite index added 0.93 point, to 2,031.25. [C9.]

The dollar rebounded slightly after plunging on Tuesday. [C8.]

Crude oil prices fell but remained above the $51-a-barrel level. [C8.]

Rosen to Lead Economic Council
President Bush named Harvey S. Rosen, an economist on leave from Princeton University, to be chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Rosen will replace N. Gregory Mankiw, who resigned last week after two stormy years and returned to Harvard University. But White House officials indicated that Mr. Rosen would serve only as interim chairman. [A18.]

Increases in health spending will outstrip the growth of the economy over the next 10 years, the Bush administration said. [A20.]

He Talks Like an Economist
Habits of mind that made Lawrence H. Summers a good economist help explain why he is embroiled in controversy as president of Harvard. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. [C2.]

Finding Financing on the Web
VFinance.com seeks to find ways for entrepreneurs to match their ideas and business plans with investors. Small Business. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,673.79 up 62.59Nasdaq composite -- 2,031.25 up 0.9310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.26% down 0.03The euro -- $1.3226 down 0.0031The dollar -- 104.85 yen up 0.76Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Durable Goods Orders from July to December.Durable Goods OrdersJanuary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: Unch.Graph tracks the daily closing price of Accredo shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); VERDICTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DAMAGES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); CEREBRAL PALSY (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); PHARMACIES (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); ACCOUNTING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); US DOLLAR (67%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (59%); ACCREDO HEALTH INC (56%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (56%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (59%); MSO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (59%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (59%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (56%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (56%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



512 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: If a Currency Can Feel, The Dollar Feels Vulnerable

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar's plunge Tuesday and its small rebound yesterday underscored how vulnerable it is right now to a further decline.
 The vulnerability can be traced to a fear that the United States will not be able to attract the funds from abroad needed to cover its current-account deficit, which is expected to set a record for 2004 of more than $600 billion.
 The dollar rallied modestly yesterday after several Asian central banks said that they were not selling dollars or intending to sell dollars to diversify their reserves into other currencies. 
 The dollar's small rebound came after it plunged 1.5 percent against the euro and 1.4 percent against the yen Tuesday, after reports, later denied, that the central bank of Korea was planning to diversify some of its reserve holdings out of dollars and into other currencies. The dollar sell-off also sent stock and bond prices lower on Tuesday and helped push interest rates higher. 
 Yesterday, stocks rebounded modestly and interest rates slipped slightly, as the dollar rose 0.2 percent against the euro and 0.7 percent against the Japanese yen. The euro was valued at $1.3226, down from $1.3257 Tuesday, and the dollar was worth 104.85 yen, up from 104.09 Tuesday. 
 Central banks are major contributors to the flow of funds from abroad to cover the current-account deficit, which is the gap in trade and services with the rest of the world. A slowing of that flow could send the dollar lower, analysts say. In 2004, purchases of United States stocks and bonds by official government agencies, which is mostly done by central banks, totaled $236 billion, or a quarter of the total inflows. 
 But some analysts said that it was not in the interest of central banks, especially those in Asia, to sell dollars now -- sudden selling could cause the dollar to plunge, disrupting world financial markets.
 In addition, Asian central banks want to keep their currencies from rising further against the dollar so that their countries' currencies and exports can continue to be competitive with China's currency and exports and in markets around the world. China's currency, the yuan, is pegged to the dollar, which means the Chinese must sell yuan to buy dollars, which simply increases their dollar reserves.
 ''I don't think they will be out there leading the charge in selling the dollar,'' Steven Englander, chief foreign exchange strategist for the Americas at Barclays Capital, said of the central banks. 
 On Tuesday, analysts immediately dismissed the idea that the Korean plan would lead to significant dollar selling by that or other central banks. But the dollar still plunged. 
 ''The market has its heart on selling the dollar,'' said Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Bank of America, ''and found in what was really a quiet market a reason to sell dollars.''
 Yesterday's rally was not enough to make up Tuesday's losses, although the central bank of Korea denied any plan to diversify its dollar holdings into other currencies.
 In addition, the director of the foreign exchange markets division of Japan's ministry of finance said that Japan had no plans to shift its foreign currency reserves from dollars to other currencies, according to Bloomberg News. The central bank of Taiwan said in a statement that it was not selling dollars.
 In its statement, the Bank of Korea said, ''Recent reports by the foreign media that the B.O.K. is selling U.S. dollars are not true,'' according to Bloomberg News. The statement said that the bank, in a report for the National Assembly, was planning to ''diversify investment targets.''
 Analysts said Tuesday that it appeared that the plan was to set up a money-managing entity that would be responsible for investing a portion of the reserves held by the Bank of Korea. One goal would be to increase the return on the reserves by investing in fixed-income securities with lower credit quality and higher yields. 
 One reason that the dollar can fall sharply on news like Korea's announcement, even when analysts said immediately that it had been misinterpreted, is that currency traders and speculators thrive on market volatility. In addition, many traders have sell or buy orders already set up at certain dollar levels to protect their profits or reduce their losses. When these levels are passed, a dollar move can accelerate, as it did on Tuesday.
 ''The market sentiment is very pro-price action these days,'' Mr. Englander of Barclays Capital said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BONDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (77%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



513 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Prices Rise Only Slightly, Easing Fears About Inflation

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
Consumer prices barely rose in January, the government said on Wednesday, but the Federal Reserve signaled its intention to keep nudging up interest rates in the months ahead.
 Consumer prices edged up 0.1 percent in January, adjusted for seasonal factors, after being flat in December. The mild increase soothed investor anxieties about inflation, even though it stemmed in part from a temporary dip in oil prices that has since reversed.
 The consumer prices report came as newly released minutes from the Federal Reserve's policy meeting on Feb. 1 and 2 suggested that Fed officials were slightly less worried about inflation than they had sounded in January. 
 The minutes suggested that Fed officials would continue to slowly raise short-term interest rates, but there were fewer hints about the need to speed the process of rate increases in response to inflationary pressure.
 The minutes were conspicuously silent about whether the Fed should continue to announce its intention to raise rates at a ''measured'' pace, a code phrase generally assumed to mean quarter-point increases at every policy meeting until at least this summer. 
 But analysts said Fed officials had differing views about what is ahead. At least some officials are worried about inflationary pressures caused by the dollar's falling value, slowing productivity growth and rising wage costs.
 Jack Guynn, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, told executives in Alabama on Wednesday that the central bank ''still has a ways to go in recalibrating monetary policy'' -- a pointed warning that the Fed was not finished with its rate increases.
 At the February policy meeting, Fed officials voiced some of the same concerns as they had in January about the falling dollar; the record trade deficit, which topped $600 billion in 2004; and a federal budget deficit that is on track to hit $427 billion this year.
 But the tone of the new Fed minutes was much more muted than it was in January, omitting previous expressions of concern about ''excess speculation'' in real estate as well as in financial markets.
 ''Participants thought that the rate of core inflation likely would remain low and stable, assuming further removal of policy accommodation,'' the Fed said in its summary of the meeting, referring to its strategy of gradually raising interest rates from the lows reached in 2003 and 2004.
 In previous months, the minutes have noted that some policy makers wanted to abandon the implied commitment of raising rates at a ''measured pace,'' arguing that the central bank needed more flexibility.
 The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, conspicuously avoided using the phrase in two days of testimony in Congress last week, saying only that interest rates are still ''fairly low.''
 The new minutes say that ''all members agreed'' to keep the language about a ''measured'' pace, but they also emphasized that ''the committee would respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to maintain price stability.''
 ''The committee might be on the verge of moving to language that is more flexible,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now a senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm. 
 But it remains unclear whether a more flexible approach would mean a slowdown or an acceleration of rate increases. Though some officials are clearly worried about inflation, others are aware that each additional rate increase brings interest rates closer to a ''neutral'' level that neither juices up the economy nor slows it down.
 The consumer price data released on Wednesday suggested that inflation remains low. 
 Seasonally adjusted, the overall consumer price index rose 0.1 percent January. In the last three months, consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 1.3 percent, considerably slower than they had been rising last spring and summer. 
 The ''core'' rate of inflation, excluding the volatile prices for food and energy, climbed 0.2 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis. 
 But the biggest source of inflation relief was temporary: Energy prices fell 1.1 percent in January and at an annual rate of 6 percent over the previous three months. 
 Those price declines are likely to reverse, at least in part, because oil prices have jumped back up above $50 a barrel in recent days.
 Economists continue to worry about producer prices, the prices charged by wholesalers. Last Friday, the government reported that producer prices, outside of food and energy, jumped 0.8 percent in January, the biggest increase in six years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); TESTIMONY (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Price Index; Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



514 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs Will Keep Rising, U.S. Says, Along With Government Share of Paying Them

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
The Bush administration predicted Wednesday that government would account for nearly half of all the nation's health care spending by 2014.
 Further, it said, total health spending will double in a decade, to $3.6 trillion in 2014 from $1.8 trillion last year, while gross domestic product, the total output of goods and services, grows more slowly. As a result, health spending will constitute 18.7 percent of the economy by 2014, up from an estimated 15.4 percent last year, the administration said.
 The public share of health spending has been climbing gradually for decades. When Medicare and Medicaid were created in 1965, public programs accounted for 25 percent of all health spending in the United States. By 2014, they will account for more than 49 percent of the total -- ''a record share that could have important implications for the budget as a whole,'' said Stephen K. Heffler, director of the national health statistics group at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Last year, public programs accounted for 46 percent of all health spending. 
 Mr. Heffler and Richard S. Foster, the chief Medicare actuary, supervised preparation of the new estimates, published Wednesday on the Web site of the journal Health Affairs.
 The new Medicare drug benefit, they said, is expected to have ''only a minor effect on total prescription drug spending'' and overall health spending, but will produce a major shift in who pays the bills.
 Medicare, which now accounts for 2 percent of spending on prescription drugs, will account for 28 percent next year, Mr. Heffler and Mr. Foster said.
 Medicare, the program for the elderly and disabled, will partly replace other sources of drug spending, like private insurance, individual consumers, families and the Medicaid program for low-income people, they said.
 The administration estimated that Medicare spending on prescription drugs would total $69.9 billion next year, up from $4.5 billion this year. At the same time, it said, Medicaid spending on drugs will fall to $23 billion (9 percent of all drug spending), from $40.5 billion (18 percent).
 Private spending on prescription drugs -- private insurance and out-of-pocket payments -- is expected to decline next year to $147 billion (59 percent of the total), from $170 billion (76 percent).
 The administration predicted that the new coverage would lead to an increase in the use of prescription drugs by Medicare beneficiaries. But, it said, drug plans serving Medicare recipients will be able to negotiate discounts averaging 15 percent for those beneficiaries when the benefit begins in 2006.
 Referring to total national drug spending, the authors said, ''We estimate that price discounts associated with the new benefit will nearly offset the increased usage associated with extending drug insurance coverage to the Medicare population.''
 They said many drugs likely to enter the market in the coming decade would be prescribed for small groups of patients. Few of the drugs, they said, will achieve ''blockbuster status.''
 Still, the report said, prescription drugs will be the fastest-growing sector of the health care industry, accounting for 14.5 percent of all health spending in 2014, up from 11 percent last year.
 Mr. Heffler said government economists and actuaries believed that the number of people with private health insurance coverage would grow in coming years, but not as fast as the population. And the proportion of people without any coverage at all may increase, he said.
 People who have no drug insurance and sign up for the Medicare drug benefit will see a decline in their out-of-pocket spending on prescription medicines, Mr. Heffler said. But, he added, some employers may drop coverage they now provide to retirees, and such retirees ''are likely to see their out-of-pocket costs increase'' even if they sign up for Medicare's drug benefit.
 A coalition of health care providers and suppliers, including hospitals and drug manufacturers, said the report took no account of the benefits of increased health spending: lower death rates, longer life expectancy, fewer days spent in hospitals and less disability among the elderly.
 But C. Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, said health costs appeared ''destined to grow forever faster than anything else in this economy.'' The nation has not faced up to that prospect, he said.
 In estimating the cost of the new drug benefit, the administration assumes that 38.9 million people -- more than 90 percent of those eligible -- will sign up next year, but some evidence suggests that this estimate may prove too high: elderly people have hesitated to take advantage of the drug benefit law, passed in 2003. Federal officials have repeatedly said that beneficiaries can save money by using drug discount cards, available since June, but many elderly people say they have been confused by the options, and enrollment has not met official predictions.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Shifting Landscape of Health Spending''New figures project that by 2014, spending on health care by federal, state and local governments will account for nearly half of the nation's growing health care spending.Graphs track health care spending as a share of gross domestic product and share of total health spending by government and private sector from 1960 through projected 2014.Figures for 2004 and later are projections.(Source by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); MEDICARE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (72%); STATISTICS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (68%); WRITERS (66%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



515 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Confronting Blight With Hope

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Landscape architects have long felt sidelined or devalued by their architectural brethren. But as the boundaries between the two professions slowly dissolve, it seems that landscape designers are advancing some of the most potent visions of how blighted cities can be revived.
 ''Groundswell,'' an exhibition opening tomorrow at the Museum of Modern Art, sets out to showcase the results of this gradual shift. Spanning nearly two decades of contemporary landscape design, this wide-ranging show surveys 23 projects -- from plazas to waterfront parks to large-scale urban renewal efforts. The picture that emerges is of one of the most fruitful periods in landscape design in a century or more, with visions that range from the hyperreal to the atavistic. (Minimalism makes an appearance, but when it does it seems like more of a warning than an inspiration.) 
 If the show has a subtext, in fact, it is a forthright desire to come to terms with the postindustrial landscape, in particular with its legacy of violence and decay. Many of the projects seem to have been plucked from a list of man-made horrors: the site of a terrorist bombing, a war-torn city center, poisonous dumping grounds and industrial wastelands. The show's underlying optimism is rooted in the power of landscape design to act as a healing agent.
 Yet one of the show's strengths is that it never preaches. Even the most toxic landscapes are envisioned as part of a broader cycle of decay and renewal. And all are explorations of communal memory -- an attempt to openly engage that dark history rather than cover it over.
 Of these, the most lyrical is the stunning Igualada Cemetery on the outskirts of Barcelona, which opened in 1996. (Adding to its resonance, it was one of the first important commissions for Enric Miralles, architect of the new Scottish Parliament, who died of a brain tumor at the age of 45 in 2000.) A drawn-out processional path carves down into the earth; tombs frame the path on either side, embedded in the cemetery's canted concrete retaining walls.
 The aim is to draw you deeper into the realm of memory. But it is also about forgetting: built in a decrepit industrial zone on the outskirts of Barcelona, the cemetery offers an escape from the relentless pace of modernization into a more intimate inner world. The asymmetrical arrangement of the paths is an antidote to regimentation of a culture modeled on the assembly line.
 The relationship between excavation and memory resurfaces in Gustafson Porter's ''Garden of Forgiveness '' in central Beirut, a district that was virtually obliterated during Lebanon's 16-year civil war. The project, currently under construction, offers some of the show's most haunting images. The garden will rise amid ancient and medieval ruins that were uncovered during the restoration of the central district. A series of terraces step down to the newly excavated site, which is divided by an old Roman road. The ancient foundations will frame smaller gardens within the park, planted with indigenous fauna.
 Like the cemetery in Barcelona, the project evokes a spiritual journey. The exposed ruins suggest the excavation of the city's shared memories; the gardens, healing. In both projects, the earth is imbued with sacred meaning. 
 That approach is in striking contrast to that of designers who fervently embrace the artificiality of our postindustrial world. Of these, the most innovative may be the Schouwburgplein (1996) in Rotterdam, a plaza by West 8 Urban Design and Landscape that draws inspiration from the eeriness of the city's industrial waterfront. The plaza's surface, raised slightly above the surrounding streets, is paved in a pattern of wood slats, perforated metal and heavy-duty rubber. A row of mechanical ''light masts,'' inspired by the massive cranes along Rotterdam's piers, line the project's northern edge, their muscular steel arms gliding up and down like oil pumps.
 By raising the plaza just above street level, the designers enabled light to filter down into levels of parking underneath the plaza -- a further reminder that you are not on solid ground. But the plaza is also a stage for reflecting on Rotterdam's gritty history. A major port in World War II, the city was blasted by British and American bombers during the German occupation. Its industrial piers, modern housing blocks and generic shopping strips are emblematic of the postwar city.
 Rather than ignore the past, the architects draw inspiration from it. The gentle rocking of the light masts offer relief from the frenetic pace of urban life. The plaza's vacant surface evokes the barren piazzas of an Antonioni film. But instead of urban alienation, the mood is one of intense intimacy, an unexpected silence carved out of the city's core.
 Other projects embrace the artificial just as ardently. The sensuous, undulating lines of Foreign Office Architects' design for a waterfront park in Barcelona, completed in 2004, could have been inspired by Miralles's earlier work. But the project's heavy concrete retaining walls, which are meant to evoke sand dunes, have a hard-core industrial aesthetic. Like West 8's urban plaza, they fit comfortably into their postindustrial context.
 Similarly, Field Operations' model for a proposed park at Fresh Kills in Staten Island is a witty nod to the site's function as landfill for city waste for more than half a century. The model's delicately etched surface, decorated with pins marking the park's various activities -- golf, kayaking, horseback riding, soccer -- is neon green, as if it were glowing with the poisonous ooze trapped underneath. It's hauntingly beautiful.
 Such an approach may seem a bit dark in comparison with, say, the lighthearted Pop imagery of Alsop's design for the city center of Bradford, in northern England. A response to the population declines in old manufacturing cities, the project brims with social idealism. The plan includes tearing down the city's abandoned center and replacing it with an urban park, which will act as a mixing chamber for the city's racially divided neighborhoods.
 There are also lesser works here -- too many to mention. The minimalist designs, in particular, tend toward the drab, especially when they adhere to the rigid formalism that was a hallmark of much 1980's landscape architecture. (Peter Walker William Johnson & Partners' design for Keyaki Plaza in Saitama City, Japan, looks ominously like its current design for ground zero's memorial park.) Yet in their rigid allegiance to the grid, these projects are a useful foil to the more adventurous work.
 As a whole, the show, organized by Peter Reed, a MoMA curator of architecture and design, signals the refreshing debate that is emerging over how best to deal with the legacy of Modernism. These designers, many still in their 40's, are less apt to judge that past in black-and-white terms than to extract its neglected beauty. What is more, they accept that violence and decay are an inescapable part of urban existence. 
 Beyond their aesthetic range, these projects resonate because they are such deeply felt responses to contemporary realities. This is urban optimism without blinkers.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A plaza in Rotterdam designed by West 8 Urban Design and Landscape. (Photo by Jeroen Musch)(pg. E1)
 Alsop's master plan for the city center of Bradford, England. (Photo by Alsop & Partners and Bradford Centre Regeneration)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); BOMBINGS (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%) Landscaping; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Modern Art (NYC)

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) NETHERLANDS (79%); LEBANON (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); SCOTLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



516 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Africa, and Its Artists, Belatedly Get Their MTV

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE; Kate Aurthur contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, FEB. 22 

 BODY:
For as long as anyone can remember, it has taken a rare stroke of luck for an African recording artist to be heard outside Africa. Pino di Benedetto, the marketing director for EMI Africa, a major recording company here, remembers how the South African rock band Watershed got the cold shoulder throughout Europe until one German disc jockey named Gregor happened to hear its lyrical hit single ''Indigo Girl'' on the radio while vacationing in South Africa in 2000. 
 He picked up the CD at a store, packed it in his suitcase and played it on his station, SWR3, when he got home to Stuttgart. ''Indigo Girl'' hit Germany's Top 10 chart, Mr. di Benedetto said. ''There is a lot of music that comes out of Africa that would be easily marketable in the States and in Europe,'' he said. ''Nobody gives us a chance. We just are not seen as hit-makers.'' 
 Until now, perhaps. On Tuesday night, in a snazzy nightclub in Sandton, a well-heeled suburb outside Johannesburg, MTV opened its first local music channel in Africa, bringing one of the world's best-known consumer brands and its global dominance of music television to one of the few remaining untouched markets. For viewers in 48 nations in sub-Saharan Africa, the opening belatedly offers what young music fans in other nations have long watched on MTV's 43 other music channels -- their favorite local artists, showcased in a slick, fast-paced music-video format with contests, music news, viewer-request lines and behind-the-scenes features. 
 For the continent's artists -- those bands with talent and drive but lacking a road map out of Africa or even out of their own country -- the channel, called MTV Base, could offer the kind of break they long for, says Bill Roedy, president of MTV Networks International. The best of those artists, he said, may be able to jump from the newly begun local channel to other MTV channels around the world, giving them the global exposure that has eluded all but a precious few African musicians. 
 ''We are looking to Africa to be a huge contributor,'' he said in a telephone interview from London. ''It is going to enrich our channels around the world. We work very hard to develop local artists. It is something we passionately believe in. It's not just a natural evolution. It's a commitment.'' 
 Many would snicker at that, arguing that MTV's ubiquity these days -- the seamless broadcasts of Outkast in Pskov, or Maroon 5 in Hokkaido -- fosters cultural homogeneity, not originality. Rather than promoting indigenous, original music, they say, MTV's global reach simply encourages foreign artists to mimic the American formats that the mass market seems to crave. To its critics, MTV is the classic example of what President Jacques Chirac of France called the threat of a worldwide invasion of American pop culture. If unchecked, Mr. Chirac warned in Hanoi in October, ''all other countries would be stifled to the benefit of American culture.'' 
 Todd Gitlin, a professor of journalism and sociology at Columbia University, said, ''MTV represents a wing of American youth culture that has a following -- and also arouses contempt and loathing.''
 Still, more than a few African artists laboring in impoverished anonymity see MTV as a possible ticket to fame. Indeed, their hope is that the trend will go in the opposite direction -- that MTV will help Africa export its music to the United States. 
 Other markets are crucial because Africa's own market is minuscule, amounting to less than 1 percent of global music sales, industry studies show. If a South African recording artist sells 50,000 copies, it's a platinum record. ''In terms of the United States, that's a joke,'' said David du Plessis, general manager for the music industry's trade association, the Recording Industry of South Africa. He blames piracy problems, in part, for crippling the industry. 
 How to break out of Africa is the perennial question here. Miriam Makeba, a legendary singer known in the United States for hits like ''The Click Song'' and ''Pata Pata,'' managed by hooking up with Harry Belafonte in the early 60's. Ladysmith Black Mambazo, winner of two Grammy awards, was virtually unknown outside Africa until the group collaborated with Paul Simon on his groundbreaking ''Graceland'' album, which made so-called World Music a phenomenon among American artists. 
 Artists all over the world complain there is no room for them in a market dominated by Americans and Europeans , said Steve Harris, Africa's international marketing director for the recording company Universal South Africa. But Africans struggle especially hard, he said, because outside South Africa, there is a real dearth of studios, record companies and producers capable of turning out a sophisticated music video. 
 The hope, he said, is that MTV will give talented African artists a springboard to local fame that is the prerequisite for international interest. ''In Brazil, MTV really did create a demand and help music at the local level,'' he said. ''That's what I am hoping will happen here.'' 
 MTV Base was a long time coming. The network's first music channel made its debut in the United States in 1981, and its first international channel began in Europe six years later. In the ensuing 18 years, MTV's local channels have spread almost everywhere except Africa, which until now had been offered only MTV's European channel. 
 It is easy to understand why: In much of the continent, televisions are only slightly more common than ice rinks. Americans own one television set for every one person, according to United Nations surveys. Africans own one for every 16. Pay television, MTV's platform here, is the staple of barrooms here, not the one-or-two room block urban homes where millions of young Africans live. 
 MTV now reaches 411 million homes worldwide, counting Nickelodeon and its various other channels. In Africa, MTV will add 1.3 million subscribers, more than two-thirds of them in South Africa, according to DS-TV, the satellite broadcasting service. Some industry experts question how much that viewership can grow. 
 ''Considering the average household income, I don't believe you are going to see millions of people rush out and buy a decoder just because MTV is available,'' Mr. du Plessis said. 
 Still, the continent is home to nearly 900 million people, more than a third of whom are between the ages of 15 and 34, MTV's target audience. Now that it is more politically stable and on a path toward economic growth, Mr. Roedy says that Africa fits in MTV's plan to span the globe. 
 Eighty-one percent of MTV's viewers live outside the United States, but they still account for 16 percent of MTV's revenues. 
 Unlike Britain, where MTV is fighting hard to ward off challengers, its competition in Africa is confined to dead-of-the-night music fillers on free television stations and to Channel O, a pay television channel that is devoted to local music but lacks MTV's name recognition or glittering appeal. 
 Even South Africa's radio stations have had to be forced to play more local music. Outraged at broadcasters' slavish devotion to American and European music, musicians and record companies demanded that local songs be given one-fifth of the music airtime on the nation's radio stations. State regulators agreed, instituting the quota in 1997. 
 Lebo Mathosa, a Johannesburg singer with a powerful voice and provocative dance style reminiscent of Tina Turner, thrilled the hip, racially mixed crowd invited to celebrate MTV's new channel with a live performance Tuesday that cellphone cameras snapping wildly. Like most popular artists here, she said that she is starved for broader outlets, especially those with global reach. 
 Mr. Roedy says that local programmers at the network's other channels decide on their own what songs in MTV's international inventory merit airtime. But having seen Latin American artists take off in the mid-1990's, he said, he has high hopes for the musical form of kwaito, as well as the Zulu form of hip-hop and other distinctly African genres. 
 Initially, Mr. Roedy said, MTV's new channel will devote 30 percent of its airtime to local music, and programming will be coordinated out of London. But after the channel establishes itself, local and international music will divide the airtime 50-50. By the end of next year, the channel's entire operation will operate out of Africa, an MTV spokesperson said. 
 Mr. Roedy says the individual personalities of its local channels is the secret of MTV's dominance of the world market. MTV Indonesia includes a daily call to prayer for its Islamic audience; MTV Italy offers food programs; MTV Japan has a sharp, techy edge. 
 And MTV Africa? ''Good question,'' he said. ''It will evolve.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The singer Lebo Mathosa and Bill Roedy, an MTV executive. (Photo by Ellen Elmendorp for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
The Nigerian singer Tuface performing at the Johannesburg kickoff for MTV Base, the new African channel. (Photo by Ellen Elmendorp for The New York Times)(pg. E7)Chart: ''People Per Television''UNITED STATES: 1.1SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA: 16.1CHINA: 2.9MIDDLE EAST, NORTH AFRICA: 4.0Data from 2002, U.S. data from 2001.(Sources by International Telecommunications Unit
 World Resources Institute)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%) Television; Recordings (Video); Music

COMPANY: MTV NETWORKS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (59%) Mtv Networks

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%) AFRICA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (78%) Africa; South Africa

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



517 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; NATURE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: From Ruin and Artifice, Landscapes Reborn

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
THE name Frederick Law Olmsted, the landscape architect who built Central Park when Fifth Avenue was no more than a dirt road, is often on the lips of landscape architects these days.
 Trained as a civil engineer, Olmsted had no qualms about moving tons of rock and soil to build the artificial hills and streams in the fake wilderness that he knew urban dwellers would hunger for, long after the real forest was cut down.
 Now his heirs stand on rooftops, parking garages and old dumps recalling not his pastoral landscapes, but his vision: that a great park will bring development and economic prosperity. And that it takes time.
 ''Fresh Kills will be three times as big as Central Park,'' James Corner, a landscape architect, said last week, standing on one of the highly engineered mounds of capped garbage at that former landfill, which sprawls over 2,200 acres on Staten Island. Mr. Corner's firm, Field Operations, is designing and building the park. 
 It took 53 years to build these mountains of garbage. It will take at least 30 years to build up the thin soil that covers them, enrich its sparse habitats and create the amenities -- from meandering trails to ball fields and restaurants -- to draw visitors. 
 ''Cities are clamoring for distinctive open space projects,'' Mr. Corner said. ''Politicians are beginning to see that grand public projects, while they may have a high price tag, can yield real dividends in terms of a city's competitive edge.''
 Fresh Kills is one of 23 landscapes featured in ''Groundswell: Constructing the Contemporary Landscape,'' which opens tomorrow at the Museum of Modern Art. The exhibition, organized by Peter Reed, a curator in the department of architecture and design, documents a sea change in landscape architecture.
 No longer the handmaidens of architects, landscape architects are building huge parks, some on a 19th-century scale, on polluted industrial spaces like Duisburg-Nord, the former Thyssen Steelworks in the Ruhr district of Germany. Here, Peter Latz, a German designer, has embraced the old blast furnaces as monumental memories of the past. Rock climbers scale the ore bunkers, scuba divers swim in the old cooling pools, gardens and wild weeds bloom. 
 In the exhibition catalog Mr. Reed acknowledges Gas Works Park, in Seattle, designed in the 1970's by Richard Haag, as the precedent for Duisburg-Nord and others. Seattle had hired Mr. Haag to draw up a master plan for the 20-acre park, assuming that the leftover gas plant would be razed. ''The ground was very polluted,'' Mr. Haag recalled. ''The buildings were boarded up, the place was fenced off. It was a desperate, desolate place.''
 But he was attracted to it. He camped out among the ruins, and he pored over the old records. He searched for the power of the place.
 ''I'm always looking for the most sacred thing on the site,'' Mr. Haag recalled. ''But there was no forest or a brook. I thought, 'I'm going to save those two towers, whatever I do.'''
 He spent the next 30 years trying to convince city officials and the Environmental Protection Agency that over time, aerating the soil and growing plants would clean waste from the soil. That was long before phytoremediation -- using plants to do just that -- had filtered into universities and public works departments. 
 For more than 30 years a heavy wire fence has kept people from wandering among the towers. Now, thanks to the lobbying of local parks advocates, the award-winning park has been designated a landmark by the city and state. 
 And last year Seattle's City Council voted to fix the towers and take down the fence.
 ''We hope it can be done by the Fourth of July,'' Mr. Haag said. 
 Groundswell also examines the extraordinary plazas that are transforming small, derelict spaces in cities. In Rotterdam, for instance, Adriaan Geuze, the director of West 8 Urban Design and Landscape Architecture, has turned the roof of a parking garage into a lively, uncluttered space.
 ''Rotterdam had been bombed during the war, so every building is new and has a lack of identity,'' Mr. Geuze said, speaking from his office in Rotterdam. He looked to the city's port for a vital sense of self.
 ''We thought the new square could be a recollection of the port, so we created the mosaic floor using old material from boats and pontoons and decks,'' he said. There are oversize, comfortable benches waiting for the readers, the lovers, the spectators.
 ''We created a public space as a void,'' Mr. Geuze said, knowing that people would fill it: actors, musicians, peddlers, soccer players. There are no trees here either. The world has way too many ''shallow landscapes, with every square meter filled with benches and beautiful plants,'' Mr. Geuze said. 
 Groundswell also takes a look at Weiss/Manfredi's design for the Seattle Art Museum's Olympic Sculpture Park, to be completed next year. Marion Weiss and Michael Manfredi, who are based in New York, sought to connect Seattle back to its waterfront through the construction of a zigzagging land bridge that spans a highway and railroad and joins three separate pieces of land.
 The eight-and-half-acre site, built on an old gas storage and transfer station, descends 40 feet to the water, where the old sea wall is to be removed to allow salmon to spawn on submerged, algae-covered terraces. Works by artists like Alexander Calder and Richard Serra will be as much a part of the landscape as the Western cedars and aspen, planted to evoke the Northwest forest. And the design makes no attempt to hide the infrastructure.
 These new parks sit comfortably among the traffic jams and city lights. 
 Up on the grassy mound at Fresh Kills, Mr. Corner looked down on the surprisingly clear creek. He could see the rush hour traffic crawling soundlessly south on the West Shore Expressway; the Bayonne Bridge arching westward to New Jersey, the Manhattan skyline to the north, Long Island stretching east into the hazy Atlantic. 
 Mr. Corner wants to put scrims around the towers of the flare station, which collects methane gas from the capped mounds. ''We would light them at night,'' he said. ''You would see them like lanterns in the black void.''
 Just as Mr. Haag planted clover at Gas Works Park, Mr. Corner will plant cover crops like mustard, rapeseed and kale, which not only help clean pollutants from the soil but actually build organic material.
 ''Over three or four years we could add four to six inches to the soil,'' Mr. Corner said.
 That's the beginning of what he means by ''growing'' a landscape. And just as poplar and red oak move into old fields, these mustard fields will evolve into a far more diverse habitat of plants and countless other species. 
 Mr. Corner's team will build a memorial to the thousands of workers who cleared the remains of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack. He pointed to the highest mound, where two earthworks, the height and width of the towers, will be laid on the ground.
 ''You will walk up one at a 6 percent incline, then turn and walk up the other,'' Mr. Corner said. ''It's an anti-monument, in the sense that the real experience comes through walking.''
 It will take the average person 15 minutes, walking through wildflower meadows and under a big sky and a horizon as far as the eye can see.
 ''When you get to the top, the highest point on the site, you'll be on axis to Manhattan,'' Mr. Corner said.
 The towers are still shockingly absent from that skyline. But here, on top of the old dump, where landscape architects are helping nature reclaim the site, it's a good place for healing and reflection. 
 Groundswell casts a wide net, from Staten Island to Beirut, to remind people of another ancient role of public places, as sacred sites. But the rowdy, joyful public square is back too -- on Rollerblades, on the wastelands.

''Groundswell'' runs through May 16 at the Museum of Modern Art: (212)708-9400.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CITY SPACES -- Marion Weiss and Michael Manfredi, top, included native trees and a zigzagging land bridge in their design for Seattle's waterfront Olympic Sculpture Park, above, on a former gas storage station. Adriaan Geuze, right, transformed the rooftop of an underground parking garage in Rotterdam into a (treeless) public space.
GREEN FIELDS -- Landscape architects like James Corner, left, standing in the Fresh Kills garbage dump on Staten Island, are designing parks on polluted industrial sites. At Fresh Kills, inset, Mr. Corner envisions crop fields and walking trails. Richard Haag, below, created Gas Works Park in Seattle in the 1970's, setting a precedent for embracing industrial ruins in a public park. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)
(Photo by John Lei for The New York Times [Weiss and Manfredi])
(Photo by Herman Wouters for The New York Times)
(Photo by Paxton for The New York Times [Corner]
 Field Operations)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (92%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); LANDFILLS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); CLIMBING (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); WATER SPORTS (69%); SCUBA DIVING (68%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HAAG AS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



518 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Medical Firms Join the Trend To Outsourcing

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Bala S. Manian rarely looked back when he left India to attend graduate school in the United States. Since 1979, he has started one medical technology company after another in Silicon Valley. 
 But Dr. Manian is now rediscovering his native country. His newest medical venture, ReaMetrix, which makes test kits for pharmaceutical research, is still based in Silicon Valley. But 20 of its 28 employees are in India, where costs for everything from labor to rent are lower.
 The exporting of jobs by ReaMetrix is telling evidence that the relentless shifting of employment to countries like India and China that has occurred in manufacturing, back-office work and computer programming is now spreading to a crown jewel of corporate America: the medical and drug industries. 
 It could be a worrisome sign. The life sciences industry, with its largely white-collar work force and its heavy reliance on scientific innovation, was long thought to be less vulnerable to the outsourcing trend. The industry, moreover, is viewed as an economic growth engine and the source of new jobs, particularly as growth slows in other sectors like information technology. 
 ''What I see in India is the same kind of opportunity I saw in the Valley in 1979,'' said Dr. Manian. In the United States, he said, ''a million dollars doesn't go more than three months.'' In India, by contrast, ''I can run a group of 20 people for a whole year for half a million dollars.'' 
 While life sciences jobs may be less vulnerable to outsourcing than jobs in information technology, industry officials say many companies are looking at that option as pressures mount to control drug prices and cut development costs. 
 ''First toys, clothes, those kind of things, then electronics and computers and now, finally, pharmaceuticals and biotech,'' said Jimmy Wei, a venture capitalist in San Francisco who helped start Bridge Pharmaceuticals, a company that is doing drug screening in Asia for American pharmaceutical companies. 
 The outsourcing of some life sciences jobs could be seen as evidence that American biotechnology companies, like their counterparts in other industries, are doing nothing more than building global connections that help make them more competitive around the world. 
 So far, the job movement has been small. According to the most recent data compiled by the Commerce Department, less than 6 percent of American companies with biotechnology operations employed contract workers abroad in 2002, but industry specialists say that percentage has increased in the last three years.
 ''It's a trend that's becoming more pronounced as people's budgets get tight,'' said Riccardo Pigliucci, chief executive of Discovery Partners International, a San Diego company that does chemistry work for drug companies. He said a chemist in India made $20,000 to $40,000 a year, in contrast to $80,000 to $100,000 in the United States. 
 Discovery Partners started a small operation in India to offer lower-cost services. In conjunction with that move it consolidated its American operations in San Diego and South San Francisco, closing a facility in Tucson and laying off 28 employees, according to its regulatory filings. 
 Clinical trials of new drugs, for instance, are already moving to countries in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, because the costs of conducting the trials are lower and human subjects can be recruited more easily. 
 Drug manufacturing is another area that can move. India already has a thriving generic drug manufacturing sector and is moving into biotechnology. One biotechnology company, Biocon, went public in India last year. Its founder and chief executive, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, has been described in the news media as the richest woman in India. 
 With revenues of more than $100 million last year, Biocon is a leading producer of generic cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins. It has designs to become a major producer of insulin and monoclonal antibodies. It also has divisions that do contract research and run clinical trials for large American and European pharmaceutical companies.
 Fueling the outsourcing trend are Indian and Chinese scientists who obtained graduate degrees and work experience in the United States and Europe and are now returning to their native countries. 
 Ge Li, the founder of WuXi Pharmatech in Shanghai, for example, spent 12 years in the United States, earning a doctorate in organic chemistry at Columbia University and then co-founding Pharmacopeia, a New Jersey drug company. 
 In 2001, Dr. Li moved to Shanghai to start WuXi, which does chemistry work for American and European companies. The company has grown to 570 employees and had revenues of $21.5 million last year, Dr. Li said. ''Essentially all of the big pharmas are our customers,'' he said. 
 PTC Therapeutics, a biotech company in South Plainfield, N.J., hires WuXi when extra help is needed for a short time. 
 ''We can turn them on and off as needed,'' said John Babiak, senior vice president for discovery technologies at PTC. But he said PTC decides which compounds to make to test as potential drugs, leaving WuXi to make them. ''We're just farming out the bench work,'' he said. 
 In that sense, what is going offshore might be called ''back laboratory'' work, somewhat equivalent to the back-office information technology functions that have moved in the past. But there are signs that the biotech migration will go beyond low-level work. 
 Roche, the big Swiss drug company, just opened a research center in Shanghai to make use of Chinese scientists returning from abroad. ''U.S. academia had been run by Chinese post-docs for the last 10 years, if not 15,'' said Jonathan Knowles, head of global research for Roche. 
 China and India are starting to invest heavily in developing biotechnology expertise. Meanwhile, Singapore has created a cluster of research centers and has attracted some top scientists. 
 Another potential advantage for some Asian countries is their more permissive stance on embryonic stem cell research, a promising new field that is restricted in the United States.
 A group of British stem cell specialists that visited China, Singapore and South Korea said scientists in those countries were as talented as in Britain but better equipped and funded. ''The challenge to Western pre-eminence in stem cell science from China, Singapore and South Korea is real,'' it concluded in a report. 
 However, the life sciences industry, even without outsourcing, is not so big that it can make up for jobs lost in other sectors. 
 By a broad definition of the industry, including medical devices, pharmaceuticals and certain parts of agriculture and chemicals, employment reaches 885,000, according to a study by Battelle Memorial Institute for the Biotechnology Industry Organization. Some 225,000 jobs, mainly in computers and back-office work, moved offshore in 2004 alone, according to an estimate by Forrester Research. 
 There are some factors that suggest life science jobs will be slower to migrate offshore than those in information technology. For one thing, drug companies face less pressure to cut costs than, say, computer disk drive manufacturers because pharmaceuticals have relatively high profit margins. 
 ''We're not trying to eke out another percent of operating margin,'' said Kevin Sharer, chief executive of Amgen, the largest biotech company, which is based outside Los Angeles. 
 Also, life sciences companies often prefer to be near the best university research, which, for now, is largely in the United States because of ample funding from the National Institutes of Health. 
 Novartis, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant, for example, shifted its research headquarters from its home country to Cambridge, Mass., in large measure to be near Harvard, M.I.T. and the numerous biotechnology companies there. 
 ''The lead the United States has built in biomedical sciences is so great that I don't think this will be lost anytime soon,'' said Paul Herrling, head of research for Novartis.
 Moving research and development far from customers in the United States can also pose problems. Aviva Biosciences of San Diego, which makes chips for biological research, for example, was started by Chinese scientists with the idea that much of the technology would be developed in China. 
 But now Aviva does most of its work in San Diego because the scientists in China could not grasp the needs of American researchers, said Jia Xu, vice president for research and development. 
 ''In terms of the market we're trying to address you really need people who are from the industry,'' he said. ''And that's something you cannot find in China.'' 
 These barriers to foreign outsourcing, say those in the business, are not likely to slow the trend. Besides, they argue, cost savings from outsourcing can free up resources for more drug development in the United States. 
 Dr. Manian said ReaMetrix, for instance, can prepare material in advance so scientists in the United States can do experiments faster. 
 ''I am not interested in replacing jobs here,'' he said. ''I am interested in taking those opportunities that are compelling, and yet are not economical to do here and do them in India.'' 
 An expert in optics, Dr. Manian first started Digital Optics, which made equipment to transfer digital medical images, like CT scans, onto film. (That same technology is used to put computer-generated special effects onto movie film, earning Dr. Manian an Academy Award certificate for technical achievement.)
 Among the other companies he co-founded were Molecular Dynamics, which developed a DNA-sequencing machine, Surromed, a drug and diagnostics company, and Quantum Dot, which has a system for detecting biological molecules. 
 These days, he thinks India holds big advantages, including a young population.
 ''The exodus of jobs in life sciences will take place,'' he said. ''There's no avoiding it. There's no way that you can sustain the inefficient research and development that exists in the U.S.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bala S. Manian says his California company, ReaMetrix, which makes kits for pharmaceutical research, does most of its work in India. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); TRENDS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (77%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: INFINITY PHARMACEUTICALS INC (50%)

TICKER: INFI (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%) India; China

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



519 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Top of the Heap? New York Leads the Nation in Inflation

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
As further evidence of the growing cost of a life lived in New York City, the Consumer Price Index for the New York region inched up 0.6 percent last month, triple the rate of inflation nationwide. 
 The index has risen 4.1 percent in New York since the beginning of 2004, compared with a 3 percent increase nationwide, according to the federal government, and far surpassing the increase in other cities, like Chicago, where the index rose 2.4 percent between January 2004 and 2005, and Los Angeles, where it rose 3.7 percent. 
 It was the second year in a row that the rise in the price index for the region was far greater than the average national increase, after four years of being lower or about the same. ''We are seeing that the cost of living has increased more in New York in the last year than in other parts of the country,'' said Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which oversees the index, a measure of consumer spending for a variety of goods and services. 
 Rising prices were led last month by housing and recreation, while the cost of food, especially produce, dropped a bit. Gasoline prices also fell 4.5 percent last month. ''The entire index is now going up and other variables are going up,'' Mr. Dolfman said. ''Here we have the largest increase in the index in the country, and it is not due to gasoline.''
 Prices for necessities have been growing faster in the New York region than almost anywhere else, and in response, many New Yorkers have been reining in their spending on discretionary items like books, personal care products and even gifts to charity. 
 From 2000 to 2003, according to the bureau, spending among New Yorkers rose 4.3 percent as inflation went up by 5.5 percent. That is the opposite of what happened in most of the rest of the country, where spending rose faster than inflation. 
 The combination of the rising costs of things like housing is almost certain to become an issue in this year's mayoral race, and some Democratic challengers to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg are already raising the specter of the high cost of living in the city. Steve Sigmund, a spokesman for the Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker and a mayoral candidate, said, ''The cost-of-living issue is important and stands as a proxy for other issues, including the mayor's priorities.''
 Housing is a ''key component'' in the inflation story, Mr. Dolfman noted. From December to January, the cost of shelter in New York rose 1.4 percent; from January 2004 to January 2005, that cost increased 4.7 percent. Household furnishings, led by appliances, were also more expensive, with prices rising 0.6 percent, and recreation costs rose 1.6 percent, in large part because of cable and satellite television. Medical care also rose 0.6 percent, pushed by prescription drug prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); COST OF LIVING (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); STATISTICS (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



520 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 914 words

PERSON: Andrea Batista Schlesinger

HEADLINE: Persuading Youth to Think Ahead (Way Ahead)

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
A GREAT deal of Andrea Batista Schlesinger's working hours are spent trying to insert the voices of young people in the fervent debate over Social Security's financial future. Ms. Schlesinger, the executive director of the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy, doesn't think it should be that tough of a sale.
 ''It's more interesting when we connect it to the larger economic discussions going on,'' says Ms. Schlesinger, who is 28. ''We talk about these issues in these silos, this is an education issue or this is a health care issue or a social issue but really this is a more fundamental question about the prospect for young Americans.'' 
 Ms. Schlesinger has been speaking up for young people's interests since she was a loud-mouth, straight-A student at Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn and the student representative on the New York City Board of Education, chiding officials for ignoring children and lecturing classmates on how the school system works.
 Now she heads a tiny nonprofit organization with a storied past. It was established in 1961 as the Drum Major Foundation by Harry Wachtel, a lawyer and adviser to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and was revived by Martin Luther King III, Andrew Young, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations, and William B. Wachtel, the son of the original founder. The institute occupies a corner suite in Mr. Wachtel's law office in a modern Midtown high-rise building.
 Ms. Schlesinger became the public face of the institute in December when its president, Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, resigned to begin his mayoral bid. The other day, she sat behind a cluttered desk as Charles Mingus wafted from a boom box on the windowsill. Her head, a cloud of tight brown curls, was lowered as she spoke. She fiddled with a paper clip. But she has no trouble expressing herself. She is extremely articulate, her hand slicing through the air.
 She was saying that though her peers are facing a rockier start to their working lives than their parents, they have been all but ignored in the debate over President Bush's proposal to shift Social Security into personal investment accounts. 
 ''What Social Security did was guarantee that people wouldn't have to grow old in poverty and now young people need to be involved in a conversation about whether that safety net will exist for us,'' she says. ''Nobody is talking to young people.''
 Ms. Schlesinger is spreading her message by speaking on college panels, writing college newspaper editorials and preparing fact sheets for campus groups. ''They need information in order to have an informed conversation,'' she says. ''We are going to have to do the slow patient work to reach out to a population that is not automatically included in this discussion in order to engage them. It's going to take time.''
 Ms. Schlesinger knew nothing about Social Security's problems in 1998 when she was recruited as a recent graduate from the University of Chicago by the Pew Charitable Trusts, a private foundation, to talk to thousands of students on campuses about the entitlement program. She engaged them in forums. 
 She is certainly good at the engaging part. ''This has been my whole life, to figure out how to get the voice of young people into debates, even though we were the ones who live with the impacts of the decision being made,'' she says.
 Ms. Schlesinger, who is of Dominican and Jewish heritage, grew up in the southern tip of Brooklyn in Sea Gate, where her father ran a computer consulting business out of the family's home. She is single and has settled in Park Slope, Brooklyn. 
 When she held the student representative's nonvoting seat on the school board, she relished shooting off at the mouth on issues like school safety, something that made her a media darling. ''I used to say, 'If young people can analyze Shakespeare, we can analyze these policies.'''
 She admits that she is more careful with her words these days. She explains that the stakes are much higher. ''I was never nervous before; now I'm always nervous.''
 MS. SCHLESINGER runs the institute's day-to-day operations and its fund-raising. She was Mr. Ferrer's educational policy analyst when he was borough president and joined him at the institute as chief policy analyst when he and Mr. Wachtel helped rescue the organization from dormancy in 2002. She was named the institute's executive director in 2003.
 ''It's a dream job for me,'' says Ms. Schlesinger, who has led an effort to turn the institute into one with a national impact by releasing reports on issues such as the increasing fragility of the middle class.
 She wants the institute to be the progressive counterpoint to the Manhattan Institute, the conservative policy research group. With speakers that have included Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Howard Dean and Eliot Spitzer, she thinks the institute has not done too shabbily with a $700,000 budget and four employees.
 Now, with the debate on Social Security growing, Ms. Schlesinger sees a chance to call attention to an overlooked population.
 ''Let's not just talk about Social Security,'' she says, ''Let's talk about what the economy looks like for young people. Almost 6 out of 10 college graduates are moving home to live with parents after graduating. You have the average college graduate leaving school with over $19,000 in student loan debt, $4,000 with credit card debt. The question we ask is, 'What has the market done for us lately?'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ANDREA BATISTA SCHLESINGER (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MAYORS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



521 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: The Quest for Financing Can Start on the Web

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
When Chuck Abate joined PlantFind.com, an online company that connects buyers and sellers of landscaping and nursery goods, one of his first tasks was to raise some capital for the company. So he turned to vFinance.com.
 Mr. Abate, who had been a stockbroker for a decade, had heard from a colleague that vFinance.com could help him find financing from individual investors. 
 VFinance.com started in 1997 when Timothy Mahoney and a partner bought the Web site from its original owner. Since then, the parent company, vFinance Inc., based in Boca Raton, Fla., has acquired six brokerage and investment banking firms in New York, New Jersey and Florida. It now offers a broad array of investment and other services, including drawing up business plans.
 But its calling card is vFinance.com, where entrepreneurs and small businesses can match their ideas and business plans with investors, whether venture capital firms or individual investors known as angels. The service is inexpensive -- PlantFind.com, which is based in Boynton Beach, Fla., spent about $350 to connect with individual investors who provided a total of about $500,000 -- and the process is relatively simple.
 ''It was pretty easy to navigate,'' Mr. Abate said. 
 VFinance.com has revenue of about $450,000 a year from the annual subscription fees that investors and venture capital firms pay to be listed on the site and the fees that start-up companies pay to find capital. But there are rivals, from longstanding angel investor clubs to the newly emerging blogs and expanded Web sites of some venture capital firms.
 ''About 90 percent of the Web sites I've looked at now give an opportunity for entrepreneurs to submit information and business plans online,'' said Suzanne Cantando, the communications director for Intersouth Partners, a Durham, N.C., venture capital firm, who recently oversaw the redesign of its Web site.
 VFinance.com has online rivals as well, including NVST Inc., at www.nvst.com, and Venture Capital Access Online, at www.vcaonline.com, but many competitors were wiped out when the Internet bubble collapsed. 
 ''They didn't have the capital behind them,'' said Mark Heesen, president of the National Venture Capital Association, a trade group for 400 firms nationwide. Raising seed money in cyberspace was hampered by lack of physical contact, he said.
 ''Venture capitalists want to see the entrepreneur face-to-face to see what he's thinking and how good is his business sense,'' he said. ''Web sites act as a kind of dating service, and a lot of it is gut reaction.''
 Guy Kawasaki, chief operating officer of the venture capital firm Garage Technology Ventures in Palo Alto, Calif., said he abandoned the matchmaking model in 2001. His firm still has a Web site, www.garage.com, but it does business only for Garage Technology.
 ''For smaller investments, sites like vFinance.com can work,'' he said. ''But the key variable is the size of the investment. When you hit about $2 million, it is extremely difficult after that point to get investors over the Internet.''
 Mr. Kawasaki said he had found that securing larger investments required five or more face-to-face meetings. ''This is not just, 'Send me an e-mail and I'll send you a check for $50,000,''' he said.
 Bill Ericson, general partner at Mohr, Davidow Ventures in Menlo Park, Calif., agreed, noting that such financing ''is built on relationships, and often the first screen is having the entrepreneur referred through people we deal with regularly, such as a lawyer or an accountant or an angel investor.''
 He suggested that fledgling businesses may have a better shot at raising money through angel networks, which meet several times a year to hear entrepreneurs' business plans. That gives investors a chance to evaluate plans as a group, and sometimes to invest jointly to spread the risk.
 A high-tech alternative to such networks has begun emerging in the form of blogs, Mr. Heesen noted. One such blog was started a few months ago by Allen Morgan at the Mayfield Fund in Menlo Park. The blog, www.allensblog.typepad.com, gives entrepreneurs a place to bat around their ideas with Mr. Morgan, and try to entice his company to invest.
 Mr. Abate said he planned to return to vFinance.com when PlantFind.com starts its next round of private financing as it expands.
 On his initial vFinance.com search in 2003, Mr. Abate sought individual investors with $1 million in net worth, and then checked their previous investments, looking for track records in computer software or services firms. He selected 100 accredited angels at $1 a name. A second search last year cost $250, at $1.25 a name, for a list of 200 individuals with higher net worth (from $1 million to $3 million). The two searches connected Mr. Abate with a group of investors who provided a half-million dollars. 
 Even with the leads from vFinance.com, raising money is not a walk in the park, Mr. Abate acknowledged. The Web site provides the names and addresses of investors, but, to avoid annoying investors, no telephone numbers. Clients must track those down themselves.
 VFinance.com has to screen its pool of prospective investors to ensure they meet the Securities and Exchange Commission's accreditation rules. That means collecting and verifying information on net worth, income and investment history. 
 This information also allows for more sophisticated searches, down to specific net worth by ZIP code, but more detailed information comes at a higher price, up to $13.50 a name, Mr. Mahoney said. Typical searches are less detailed, and can cost as little as 20 cents a name. 
 VFinance.com does not track the amount of money that changes hands through online connections, but it says that revenue from its Web site is a small part of the parent company's $25 million in annual revenue. 
 Mr. Mahoney said he was not worried about competition from blogs. ''One of the things entrepreneurs need to be wary about is keeping their ideas proprietary,'' he said. ''On a blog, how do you know who you are talking to, and that they will protect your intellectual property?''
 Also, he said, vFinance.com, unlike the more interactive blogs, does not judge entrepreneurs' ideas. ''You can't tell somebody their baby is ugly,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuck Abate of PlantFind.com said he went to vFinance.com, spent about $350 and found investors who provided about $500,000. (Photo by Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); WEB SITES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); STARTUPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); DATING SERVICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Small Business; Venture Capital ; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: VFINANCE INC (92%); INTERSOUTH PARTNERS (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Vfinance Inc; Plantfind.Com

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%)

PERSON: Chuck Abate; Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



522 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Some economists say the president of Harvard talks just like one of them.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness,'' published in paperback by Perennial.

 BODY:
BEFORE he went into government at the World Bank and Treasury Department, Lawrence H. Summers was a star economist. The habits of mind that made him a successful researcher -- including the style and rhetoric that economists use when they talk to each other -- help explain why he is now embroiled in controversy as president of Harvard.
 On Tuesday, the Harvard arts and sciences faculty met for the second time in two weeks to debate his leadership of the university. This week's meeting was less contentious and hostile to Dr. Summers than last week's, according to several of those attending. But some critics have threatened to call for a no-confidence vote at the next regular faculty meeting on March 15. Such a resolution would be nonbinding, since the Harvard Corporation, the board with the sole power to hire and fire the president, has said it supports his continued presidency. 
 Although many faculty complaints arise from Dr. Summers's managerial style, the immediate source of the dispute is a speech he gave Jan. 14 at a National Bureau of Economic Research conference on women in science and engineering. In that talk, Dr. Summers laid out three hypotheses for why women might be underrepresented in academic science and engineering, particularly at the highest levels. 
 First and by far most important, he argued, was what he called the ''high-powered job hypothesis'' -- that women are, for whatever reason, less likely to enter jobs that demand enormous time commitments. The second was that, while average ability may be the same, women may be represented in smaller numbers at the very highest (and very lowest) levels of scientific aptitude. In statistical terms, more men than women may be at the top and bottom levels of the distribution of scientific aptitude compared with the middle; in other words, the bell curve mapping men's scientific aptitude may have ''fat tails.'' The third, and least significant, he suggested, was that women are discriminated against or socialized as children not to go into science.
 He prefaced his discussion by saying he would ''adopt an entirely positive, rather than normative approach,'' looking at how the world is, rather than how it ought to be. He ended with a call for ''marshaling of evidence to contradict what I have said.''
 Despite his caveats, some women's advocates were outraged that Dr. Summers entertained, let alone endorsed the hypotheses that family arrangements or innate abilities might have anything to do with the success of women in science. Nancy H. Hopkins, a biology professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has campaigned for more hiring and promotion of female professors, walked out on his remarks and later told reporters, ''I felt I was going to be sick.''
 In lambasting his nonjudgmental, empirical approach to the question, opponents are not merely challenging Dr. Summers's brash manner or his evaluation of the data. They are attacking the very method economists use to address social policy questions. And, not surprisingly, some of his most outspoken supporters are fellow economists.
 ''He speaks the language that we speak,'' said Claudia Goldin, one of two Harvard economists who circulated a letter supporting Dr. Summers's ''continued role as president of Harvard.'' ''Economists,'' she said in an interview, ''understand what it means to 'offer some hypotheses.''' (She added that she believed Dr. Summers misread the evidence on aptitudes.)
 Dispassionate hypothesis testing is particularly important for practical questions, because different explanations may imply different solutions. Take Dr. Summers's argument that the primary barrier to women in science, as in other high-powered jobs, is that employers demand single-minded dedication to work. ''They expect a large number of hours in the office, they expect a flexibility of schedules to respond to contingency, they expect a continuity of effort through the life cycle, and they expect -- and this is harder to measure -- but they expect that the mind is always working on the problems that are in the job, even when the job is not taking place.''
 Married women, he argued, especially those with children, are far less likely than married men to put up with such demands.
 For universities, this suggests the tenure clock for junior professors may hurt women who have young children in the same years they are expected to ''publish or perish.''
 Last May, Dr. Summers invited Professor Goldin and a colleague, Lawrence F. Katz, to discuss what changes Harvard might make to tenure to retain promising young female scholars. Professor Goldin is a longtime advocate of women in the economics profession, and much of her research concerns women in the labor market.
 The two economists' conversation with Dr. Summers assumed that balancing family and work commitments is a significant problem for women in academia. If, however, as many of Dr. Summers's opponents insist, the only legitimate explanations are childhood socialization and discrimination, changing the tenure process would not help. 
 Not all Harvard economists support Dr. Summers's presidency, of course. At Tuesday's meeting, Caroline M. Hoxby, a leading empirical economist specializing in education research, criticized his abrasive management style. Others, however, are happy to tolerate some personal abrasiveness to get Dr. Summers's scholarly enthusiasm.
 The week after the furor over Dr. Summers's January remarks broke out, Edward L. Glaeser sat next to him on an airplane. Instead of talking university politics, Dr. Summers immediately began discussing Professor Glaeser's research on why politicians make appeals to the extremes rather than to the ''median voter,'' as much political science theory predicts. He asked questions and probed whether there might be alternative explanations, like the role of primaries. 
 ''To have a president who loves research that much is really, really valuable,'' Professor Glaeser said in an interview. ''At least for us, you can forgive a lot.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, arriving for a faculty meeting Tuesday. (Photo by Steven Senne/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); WOMEN (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%) Colleges and Universities; Discrimination; Engineering and Engineers; Mathematics; Science and Technology; Teachers and School Employees; Colleges and Universities; Women

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (82%) National Bureau of Economic Research; Harvard University

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%) Virginia Postrel; Lawrence H Summers

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



523 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Shares Get Some Bounce From U.S. Inflation Data

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Shares gained after a government report showed consumer prices had increased less than forecast, signaling that the Federal Reserve does not have to accelerate interest rate increases to keep inflation in check.
 Financial companies like Bank of America drove the advance. Procter & Gamble shares had the biggest rally in the Dow Jones industrial average after UBS upgraded its shares.
 ''Inflation does not appear to be out of control,'' said Michael Bee, who helps oversee $3.6 billion as equity strategist at Boyd Watterson Asset Management in Cleveland. ''What will hold up equity markets, in our opinion, is the moderate rates.'' 
 The Dow industrials rose 62.59 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,673.79. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.64 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,190.80. 
 Declines in some technology shares, including Advanced Micro Devices, weighed on the Nasdaq composite index, which added 0.93 point, or 0.1 percent, to 2,031.25.
 Five stocks were up for every three that were down on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.5 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, in line with the three-month daily average.
 Prices paid by consumers in the United States increased 0.1 percent in January, the Labor Department said, after no change in December. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was a 0.2 percent rise in the consumer price index. Excluding food and energy, core prices increased 0.2 percent for a fourth month, matching economists' estimates.
 ''People started to talk about that big 'I' word -- inflation -- again'' after Tuesday's jump in oil prices, said Victor Pugliese, head of trading at First Albany in New York. ''Everybody was a little bit nervous about the C.P.I. number today being higher.''
 An index of financial shares increased 0.8 percent, contributing the most to the S.&P. 500's advance among 10 industry groups. Higher interest rates reduce the value of bonds owned by banks, brokers and insurers, and also crimp demand for mortgages and loans.
 Bank of America climbed 53 cents, to $45.73. Citigroup Inc., the world's largest bank, rose 43 cents, to $48.38. 
 Share prices also advanced as the rally in oil prices stalled. Crude oil for April delivery finished down 25 cents at $51.17 a barrel in New York.
 Procter & Gamble gained $1.24, to $53.49. The company could have stronger-than-expected earnings next year and in 2007 as its merger with Gillette produces cost savings and higher sales in emerging markets, a UBS analyst, Andrew McQuilling, wrote in a note to clients. He raised his rating on the stock to buy from neutral.
 Technology shares had the only decline among 10 industry groups in the S.&P. 500, retreating 0.1 percent.
 Advanced Micro slid 40 cents to $16.60. Dell's chief executive, Kevin Rollins, said the computer maker decided to keep using Intel microprocessors after considering products from Advanced Micro, Intel's nearest competitor.
 Accredo Health soared after Medco Health Solutions, the nation's largest pharmacy-benefit manager, agreed to buy the company for about $2.2 billion. Accredo monitors patients with chronic diseases like hemophilia to ensure they receive and take their injectable drugs as prescribed. Accredo jumped $11.87, or 39 percent, to $42.11. Medco fell 29 cents, to $43.14. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note gained 7/32, to a price of 97 29/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.26 percent from 4.29 percent on Tuesday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.811
High Rate: 2.420
Coupon Yield: 2.458
Low Rate: 2.390
Median Rate: 2.405
Total applied for: $49,745,356
Accepted: $26,997,931
Noncompetitive: $96,160

The four-week bills mature March 24, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INSURANCE (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



524 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Warning From the Markets

 BODY:
When a seemingly innocuous remark from the central bank of South Korea makes the dollar tank, as happened on Tuesday, all is not well with the United States' position in the world economy. 
 The dollar has been on a downward trajectory for three years, thanks in part to the Bush administration's decision to try to use a cheap dollar to shrink the nation's enormous trade deficit. (A weak dollar makes exports cheaper and imports costlier, a combination that theoretically should narrow the trade gap.) To be truly effective, however, a weak dollar must be combined with a lower federal budget deficit -- or even a budget surplus, something the administration clearly hasn't delivered. So predictably, the weak-dollar ploy hasn't worked. The United States' trade deficit has mushroomed to record levels, as has the United States' need to borrow from abroad -- some $2 billion a day -- just to balance its books. 
 Enter South Korea. On Monday, its central bank reported that it intended to diversify into other currencies and away from dollar-based assets. And why not? It holds about $69 billion in United States Treasury securities, or 4 percent of the total foreign Treasury holdings. Such dollar-based investments lose value as the dollar weakens, leading to losses that any cautious banker would want to avoid. But as the Korean comment ping-ponged around the world, all hell broke loose, with currency traders selling dollars for fear that the central banks of Japan and China, which hold immense dollar reserves -- a combined $900 billion, or 46 percent of foreign Treasury holdings -- might follow suit. 
 That would be the United States' worst economic nightmare. If it appeared that the flow of investment from abroad was not enough to cover the nation's gargantuan deficits, interest rates would rise sharply, the dollar would plunge further, and the economy would stall. A fiscal crisis would result. 
 Tuesday's sell-off of dollars did not precipitate a meltdown. But it sure gave a taste of one. The dollar suffered its worst single-day decline in two months against the yen and the euro. Stock markets in New York, London, Paris and Frankfurt dropped, and gold and oil prices, which tend to go up when the dollar goes down, spiked. 
 Luckily, the markets calmed down yesterday, as Asian central banks said they they did not intend to shun dollars. While such damage control is welcome, it's no fix. Tuesday's market episode has its roots in American structural imbalances that will be corrected only by new policies, not more of the same tax-cut-and-weak-dollar deficit-bloating ploys.
 If Mr. Bush were half the capitalist he claims he is, he would listen to what the markets are telling him.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); EURO (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Currency; Editorials; United States Economy; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (51%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



525 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; BUSH IN EUROPE: ARMS EMBARGO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Europe Wants China Sales But Not Just of Weapons

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
To some critics, Europe's plan to lift its arms embargo on China is simply a way to make sure its weapons makers claim a slice of one of the world's largest military budgets. But much more is at stake in Europe's decision than whether it sells French fighter jets or German submarines to Beijing -- namely broader commercial ties and some genuine diplomacy.
 That, political and military analysts here say, is why European leaders appear ready to defy the United States, which opposes lifting the embargo. The conflict has bubbled up during President Bush's visit here this week, injecting a discordant note into his otherwise harmonious tour. 
 ''Europe wants to sell cars and perfume in China,'' said Willem van der Geest, the director of the European Institute for Asian Studies, a research group in Brussels. ''Its nonmilitary economic objectives weigh far more in this decision than any gains it would get from selling arms.'' 
 Beyond improving Europe's commercial prospects in China, Mr. van der Geest said, lifting the embargo has become a symbol of the European Union's efforts to deepen its relationship with China, which it views as a strategic partner rather than merely an ally.
 ''Going back on this would be a major setback to E.U.-China relations,'' he said. ''The Chinese would take it very badly.''
 European leaders seem determined to act soon, perhaps as early as June, though they promise to scrutinize the sales to keep particularly advanced technology out of Chinese hands. 
 ''Europe intends to remove the last obstacles to its relations with this important country,'' President Jacques Chirac of France said Tuesday, after Mr. Bush expressed ''deep concern'' about such a move.
 Few analysts question that China will be an eager consumer of weapons in coming decades. The Pentagon estimates China's military-related spending at $50 billion to $70 billion. (By contrast, the United States, which has the world's largest military budget, will spend about $500 billion on the military and activities in Iraq and Afghanistan this year.) 
 For years, China's trade has been dominated by Russia. Israel is China's second-largest supplier, and its role has particularly troubled American experts because it specializes in technologically advanced equipment, like drone aircraft.
 Such equipment, the United States worries, could tilt the security balance between China and Taiwan. Washington has supplied Taiwan with enough armaments to discourage Chinese attack.
 Neither Russia nor Israel observes the embargo, which was imposed after China's leadership massacred pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989. France and Germany do observe it, but even so are believed by some experts to be the next largest suppliers to China, though with much smaller sales..
 Like many embargos, this one is porous; some governments have allowed military suppliers to sell to China. Military experts say China has been able to buy engines for fighter planes from Rolls-Royce, the British company, and Allison, an American manufacturer. 
 ''The sanctions regime, both on the part of the Europeans and the Americans, is applied somewhat selectively,'' said Robert Karniol, Asia-Pacific editor of Jane's Defense Weekly in Bangkok.
 Executives from French military companies have begun traveling to China, overcoming years of being blacklisted by Beijing for selling Mirage fighter planes to Taiwan more than a decade ago.
 If China were allowed to trade freely with Europe, Mr. Karniol said, it would probably seek to buy advanced weapons systems rather than tanks, fighter jets or submarines. After decades of investment, China is able to build much of its war-fighting equipment domestically.
 That would still leave plenty of room for European suppliers that specialize in defense electronics. 
 In keeping with its strategy in nonmilitary industries, China would probably seek to form joint development projects with the Europeans. That would give it faster access to their technology, which is precisely the development most feared by strategic planners at the Pentagon.
 The question is whether the Europeans would risk antagonizing the United States to make such deals. BAE Systems, Britain's largest military contractor, sells more than $5 billion a year to the American military, making it the Pentagon's 12th-largest supplier. It has 30,000 employees in the United States.
 ''America is where we're looking for our growth,'' said Charlotte Lambkin, a company spokeswoman. ''If that becomes mutually exclusive with doing business in China, then we will go with the U.S.''
 Ms. Lambkin said her company viewed the arms embargo as a ''government-to-government issue,'' but was sympathetic to the Bush administration's concerns about the transfer of technology to China. ''We've encouraged the U.K. to replace the arms embargo with a stricter system of export restrictions,'' she said, referring to the United Kingdom.
 Officials at another defense company, EADS, or the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, voiced similar views, though they said their company could not be as public because it is French- and German-owned. France and Germany have been the most vocal in their support for lifting the embargo.
 ''Most of the European defense firms that do business with the Pentagon stand to lose more than they gain from selling to the Chinese,'' said Loren Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute.
 Still, there are powerful incentives for cooperating with China. EADS and BAE Systems jointly own Airbus, the aircraft maker that is in a fierce global battle with Boeing. China Southern Airlines recently ordered five Airbus A380's, the company's new superjumbo jet.
 Chinese orders are crucial to the success of the A380, and decisions on new planes are notoriously political. Mr. Chirac has traveled to China twice in recent years to promote Airbus and other French companies.
 Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany has also made pilgrimages to China, riding on a futuristic train in Shanghai that was built by a German company and helping to open a Mercedes car factory there. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); ARMS TRADE (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Arms Sales Abroad; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%) Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (88%); BELGIUM (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) China; Israel; Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



526 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Glanville Enjoys Being in Demand

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Feb. 23 

 BODY:
The most popular free agent in the major leagues last winter was not Carl Pavano, Pedro Martinez or Carlos Beltran. It was Doug Glanville.
 The Yankees signed him, and there was lots of competition. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays wanted him. The Philadelphia Phillies considered bringing him back. 
 But there was also a real estate job in Chicago. The University of Pennsylvania, his alma mater, was eager for Glanville to expand his role there. And ESPN.com could always run more of his columns on astronomy and his visit to South Africa.
 Glanville had options, and he was not afraid to use them. At 34, with nine seasons in the majors, he was not sure his career would continue.
 ''You don't know when the phone's not going to ring in free agency,'' he said. ''And even if it does ring, is it going to be a worthwhile opportunity? I was prepared. But this is undeniable, and it really had to be.''
 Glanville joined the Yankees as a nonroster player, hoping to beat out Bubba Crosby for the only open spot on the team: the backup center fielder to Bernie Williams. It is an important job, considering Williams is 36 and played only 97 games in the field last season. It was enough for Glanville to postpone other options.
 Or was it? Glanville still serves as a managing partner for Metropolitan Development, a company that builds condominiums and custom homes in Chicago's western suburbs. He still serves on the Board of Overseers of the engineering college at Penn.
 And while he has not written for ESPN.com since last April, he could always help the Yankees with their plan for a new stadium. At Penn, Glanville wrote his thesis on the feasibility of a proposed ballpark in West Philadelphia. He concluded that the cost of new transportation systems would have been prohibitive.
 ''If you wanted to spend a billion dollars and build it on stilts over the train station, you could have done it,'' Glanville said. ''It would have been gorgeous. Economics was the issue.''
 The Phillies built the park elsewhere, and Glanville played there last season. But he had only 162 at-bats, the fewest since his rookie season. Glanville, who had a game-winning triple for the Chicago Cubs in the 2003 National League Championship Series, wanted a chance to win again.
 So he chose the Yankees, but he will not abandon his other interests. Glanville is an early riser, and he sometimes uses the time before night games to work for the real estate company. He earned a degree in science and systems engineering, and he puts it to use studying documents, analyzing traffic systems and dealing with town councils for zoning approvals.
 ''He plays a big role,'' said Roderick Reid, the other managing partner. ''It's a very political process with a lot of complex issues, and Doug grasps it very quickly. Even if he's not here all the time, he processes everything instantly.''
 When Glanville played for the Cubs, he used his baseball connections to court investors. But he does not attend meetings in his role as ballplayer.
 ''People quickly realize he's not there just to smile and sign autographs,'' said Reid, a Harvard-educated lawyer. ''He's there to really lead and make decisions.''
 In some ways, Glanville is more at home in that setting than in a major league clubhouse. Only 18 other Ivy Leaguers have played in the majors since 1965, and just one for the Yankees -- Steve Adkins, a Penn pitcher best known for allowing Cecil Fielder's 50th home run in 1990.
 ''There was always this question mark as an Ivy Leaguer coming up: 'Are you dedicated? Are you an engineer first and a baseball player second? How committed are you?''' said Glanville, a first-round pick by the Cubs in 1991. ''That was the label when I got drafted. You're not sure if he wants to play.''
 Glanville respected the logic, understanding that teams have more control over players with no other options. But he also knew, he said, ''that to be an Ivy League guy, you have to be somewhat competitive on some level.'' 
 ''There's an asset in that,'' he added.
 The Cubs traded Glanville to the Phillies in 1997. Glanville had grown up in Teaneck, N.J., idolizing the Phillies' rangy center fielder, Garry Maddox. Playing Maddox's old position with a similar physical build, Glanville batted .325 in 1999.
 He still lives near Philadelphia and remains active at Penn. Last year, Glanville attended the inauguration of Penn's new president, Dr. Amy Guttman, and made a point to ask her how he could help.
 ''He is an incredible guy,'' Guttman said. ''He's really done Penn proud. We pride ourselves on having engaged alumni. He wants to be, and we want him to be, even more involved in what the university is doing with the community.
 ''We're very proud of his accomplishments and his commitment to working with us to increase access to Penn for Philadelphia teens who might otherwise think Penn is not within their reach.''
 Glanville could be available after spring training. If he does not make the Yankees, he said, he is not sure he would want to play at Class AAA. Then again, he said, he is not quite ready to give up his day job. Baseball only lasts so long.
 ''There's a lot of great stuff out there,'' Glanville said. ''But this is a finite time, and I'm trying to make the most of it. I'm trying to see this course through, and there's no better place.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A sports article yesterday about Doug Glanville, a University of Pennsylvania graduate who is an outfielder in spring training with the New York Yankees, misstated the number of Ivy Leaguers who have played with the team since 1965. It is two -Jim Beattie, a former Dartmouth pitcher who played in 1978 and 1979, as well as Steve Adkins, a former Penn pitcher who was with the Yankees in 1990.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Doug Glanville is trying to win the Yanks' only open roster spot by beating out Bubba Crosby as the backup center fielder to Bernie Williams. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ENGINEERING (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%); ZONING (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%) Baseball

COMPANY: ESPN INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (84%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%) New York Yankees

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Tyler Kepner; Doug Glanville

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



527 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: New Concerns For Economy In Japan

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
A steep drop in Japan's trade surplus in January, combined with rising oil prices, raised concerns Tuesday that the economic slump that began last year could continue into 2005.
 Japan's merchandise trade surplus plummeted 60 percent from January a year ago, to 200.76 billion yen, or $1.92 billion, far worse than the relatively flat figure expected by economists. 
 Export growth slowed unexpectedly, rising just 3.2 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more than a year, amid declines in shipments of video recorders, televisions and automobiles. Imports, meanwhile, jumped 11.6 percent, driven by higher prices for oil and steel. 
 Japan's exports to China, including Hong Kong, rose 12 percent, to 829 billion yen ($7.9 billion) in January, after 9 percent growth in December. Japan posted a 1.46 trillion yen ($13.9 billion) surplus with China for 2004, but in January, Japan had a deficit with China of 122 billion yen, or $1.16 billion, a 91 percent increase over January 2003. 
 Japan's surplus with the United States shrank 4.4 percent, to 470 billion yen ($4.5 billion), while its surplus with the European Union plunged 34 percent, to 145 billion yen. 
 The disappointing trade figures added to worries about the state of Japan's economy, coming after a report earlier this month that showed the country slipped into a mild recession last year as exports stalled and consumer spending weakened.
 The yen sank against the dollar after the release of the trade report, and the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index fell 0.8 percent, to 11,500.18, on Wednesday. A rise in oil prices to more than $51 a barrel contributed to the stock decline, adding to concerns that higher energy costs would sap corporate profits. 
 Japan's economy as a whole depends to a large degree on the health of its exporters. Strong exports were the main driver of a robust expansion in the first quarter of 2004 and their slackening was one reason for the three consecutive quarters of economic contraction since.
 The surprisingly low export figures released Wednesday left many worried that the slowdown would continue at least through the first half of 2005. 
 One hopeful sign for Japan, many economists say, is the continuing strong growth in China, which surpassed the United States last year as Japan's top trading partner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%) Japan; China; Hong Kong; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



528 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Nation-Building Projects

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The announcement that Afghanistan ranks near the bottom of the United Nations' Human Development Index (''Afghan Living Standards Among the Lowest, U.N. Finds,'' news article, Feb. 22), when added to the continuing uncertainty about Kosovo's final status (''The War We Haven't Finished,'' Op-Ed, Feb. 22), powerfully displays the difficulty and extended duration of nation-building projects, whether undertaken by the United States or the United Nations. 
 While each nation-building project undertaken since the end of the cold war -- in El Salvador, Cambodia, Somalia, Mozambique, Haiti, Bosnia, Croatia, Sierra Leone, East Timor, Kosovo and now in Afghanistan and Iraq -- has the possibility to radically improve the lives of these countries' citizens, the mixed track record of these efforts teaches us that we must be ready to accept the great duration and cost required to succeed.

Christopher J. Le Mon
Washington, Feb. 22, 2005

The writer, a lawyer, worked with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in Cambodia.
As with the struggle against terrorism, the rebuilding of failed states requires that we expand our policy choices past military options and into long-term development strategies that take into account the economic, social and political needs of the citizens of these countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RANKINGS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); TERRORISM (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); HAITI (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CROATIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



529 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Ads Embedded In Online News Raise Questions

BYLINE: By NAT IVES

 BODY:
Online sites are generating new revenue by steering readers to advertisements when they click on certain words. But when those keywords are embedded in the text of a news article, those sites are generating debate as well.
 Two months after Forbes.com ended an experiment with such keyword ads, citing unease among its reporters, The New York Post is considering adopting the practice for its site. In the process, the newspaper is raising questions about the ethics of keyword advertising online. 
 Business news articles appearing yesterday on www.nypost.com included words that were underlined and in green; when a visitor rolled a mouse over those words, a small box labeled ''sponsored link'' appeared with an advertising message and a link to more information.
 An article about rising oil prices and the falling dollar, for example, referred to the Conference Board, the business-sponsored nonprofit research group that issued its latest consumer confidence index figures yesterday. The word ''conference'' in ''Conference Board'' appeared in green and underlined; pointing the mouse at ''conference'' brought up a pitch for GoToMeeting, an online conference service from Citrix Online. 
 Using a news article's words as ads poses new questions for reporters and their publishers, said Aly Colon, who teaches ethics at the Poynter Institute, a journalism education organization. The biggest risk, he said, may be turning off readers. ''If we want to be taken seriously for the work that we do as journalists, we should try to devise a way of presenting our material so the users, the readers, know that we are first and foremost about the news,'' he said.
 Articles scattered with paid advertiser links could create the impression that advertising shaped the reporting, Mr. Colon said. That, in turn, could undermine the value of advertising in those articles in the first place, he said, adding, ''advertising wants to be associated with a news product that has integrity.''
 Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for The Post, which is owned by the News Corporation, said: ''That was a test of new technology that was not intended to be live. They have not debated or discussed it internally. They are not making any prediction whether they are going to use it.''
 Mr. Rubenstein said executives at The Post were unsure how an internal test of the new ads wound up on the public Web site. By 6 p.m. yesterday, the ads had disappeared. 
 The Post is not the first to use the system, called IntelliTXT, to wring extra ad revenue from its Web site. About 400 online publishers have so far adopted IntelliTXT, said Doug Stevenson, chief executive at Vibrant Media in New York, which developed it. But if The Post adopted IntelliTXT in its daily reports, it would stand out among news organizations, particularly after Forbes.com restricted IntelliTXT to non-news areas of its site in December. 
 Internet-savvy advertising industry observers quickly noted the appearance of paid ads in Post news coverage. A blog at www.adjab.com first reported it yesterday morning, calling the practice ''not normal.''
 An industry blog and newsletter called Adrants, edited and published by Stephen A. Hall, was more intrigued. ''The links are easy to ignore and don't alter the content,'' Mr. Hall wrote. ''Given the choice between an Internet full of flashing graphic ads or only passive text ad links, which would you choose?''
 Mr. Stevenson said Vibrant guidelines prevent reporters, editors or publishers from tailoring articles to include or exclude IntelliTXT keywords. Company guidelines provided yesterday say, ''The identification of keywords by IntelliTXT is an independent and automated process that takes place after the article has been posted online. At no point can this process be controlled or influenced by an editorial team.''
 The same guidelines say, ''IntelliTXT will not be implemented in late-breaking news, political coverage or other news channels that Vibrant Media deems to be controversial or inappropriate.''
 Most publishers using IntelliTXT focus less on breaking news and more on reviews, features and entertainment, Mr. Stevenson said. Other current users include IGN.com, a popular network of gaming sites operated by IGN Entertainment; the Experts Exchange, a site for information technology professionals; and the Web site for Popular Mechanics magazine. 
 The Popular Mechanics site, for example, includes IntelliTXT keyword ads within a review of satellite radio services, offering ads for those who hover over terms like ''satellite,'' for the VOOM satellite service; and ''speakers,'' for an audio equipment marketer.
 The challenge for most offline publishers today is finding ad revenue growth. The TV Guide Publishing Group, in one approach, plans a magazine called Inside TV that would allow marketers to pay for their brands to appear in its reporting.
 Kaizad Gotla, an Internet analyst at Nielsen/NetRatings, said there was more demand for places to advertise online than there was original content around which to sell ads. ''There is definitely a shortage of supply,'' he said. ''That leads to this kind of experimentation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ETHICS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (79%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (79%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (79%); INTERNET & WWW (79%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); WRITERS (76%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); US DOLLAR (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; News and News Media; Ethics

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (63%); FORBES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Forbes.com; New York Post

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



530 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Developer Drops Plan for City's First Wal-Mart

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Charles V. Bagli and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Facing intense opposition, a large real estate developer has dropped its plans to include a Wal-Mart store in a Queens shopping complex, thwarting Wal-Mart's plan to open its first store in New York City, city officials and real estate executives said yesterday.
 The decision by the developer, Vornado Realty Trust, is a blow to Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, and comes after company officials said that New York City was an important new frontier in which Wal-Mart was eager to expand.
 A Wal-Mart spokeswoman said the company was still exploring other sites in the city, but the possibility that the company would open a 132,000-square-foot store in Queens had immediately stirred a storm of opposition by neighborhood, labor and environmental groups as well as small businesses. Wal-Mart also faced opposition from many City Council members and several members of Congress. 
 Labor unions fought Wal-Mart with a special intensity because they believe its wage levels and benefits are pulling down standards for workers through the United States.
 Melinda Katz, chairwoman of the Council's Land Use Committee, said a Vornado representative informed her yesterday that Vornado was no longer negotiating with Wal-Mart for it to be part of the mall planned for Rego Park, Queens, in 2008.
 ''I think they just decided it's not worth the complications of having Wal-Mart,'' Ms. Katz said. ''The idea of Wal-Mart was overshadowing what could very well be a good project.''
 Roanne Kulakoff, a Vornado spokeswoman, declined to comment, except to say there was never a formal deal between Vornado and Wal-Mart. But one executive briefed on the talks between Vornado and Wal-Mart said Vornado had concluded that keeping Wal-Mart would jeopardize the city's approval of a large, ambitious project that included other stores and two 25-story apartment towers.
 ''There were people who felt it was a major risk for the project,'' said the executive, who asked not to be identified in order not to anger either side. 
 The executive said Vornado had originally hoped that city planning officials would approve the Rego Park project before it before it became publicly known that Wal-Mart was involved. But once Wal-Mart's participation became public, the opposition mushroomed, and the fight was shaping up to be the biggest battle against a single store in the city's history.
 Small-business advocates declared victory after the decision was made public, but predicted that the battle would resume in other neighborhoods. ''Vornado saw the writing on the wall and responded the way a developer needs to when he knows he's holding a losing hand,'' said Richard Lipsky, a spokesman for the Neighborhood Retail Alliance, an anti-Wal-Mart coalition in New York. ''We stopped Wal-Mart this time, but they are going to continue their efforts to open in New York and we will be sure to meet that with significant opposition wherever else they try to locate.''
 Mia Masten, Wal-Mart's director of corporate affairs for the Eastern region, sought to play down yesterday's developments. She noted that Vornado and Wal-Mart had never signed a formal deal to include Wal-Mart in the complex, planned to be built near the intersection of Queens Boulevard and the Long Island Expressway. Nonetheless, city planning officials and City Council members said Vornado had told them that it wanted to include Wal-Mart. 
 ''We never had a deal,'' Ms. Masten said, adding that Wal-Mart remains interested in opening stores in New York City. ''In fact, we continue to explore a number of possible sites throughout the five boroughs,'' she said. ''Until we have an executed agreement for a specific site, we will not comment on any ongoing negotiations.''
 Ms. Masten declined to say whether Vornado had dropped Wal-Mart from the project or whether Wal-Mart had pulled out voluntarily. Wal-Mart's opponents said that Vornado might have been swayed in part by a unanimous vote of the City Council's Land Use Committee two weeks ago to block a B.J.'s Wholesale Club in the Bronx. In the face of intense lobbying by environmental, community and labor groups, the committee overruled the local planning board and the borough president.
 Several shoppers interviewed yesterday in Rego Park said they were disappointed that a Wal-Mart would not be coming to the neighborhood, noting that many Queens residents now travel to Long Island to take advantage of the store's low prices.
 ''It would've been good if we had a Wal-Mart nearby because then we wouldn't have to travel outside the area,'' said Rolando Sands, 21, a soft drink deliverer from Jamaica, Queens. ''We'd be able to keep the money in the Queens community instead of Long Island.''
 Corinth King, 45, a traffic enforcement agent from Rego Park, said she had been looking forward to the store's variety. ''They have a lot of good sales,'' she said. ''I like it for things for the bathroom and the kitchen. They have a wide variety. I'm going to miss it.''
 But shoppers did not form an organized group to support Wal-Mart.
 Helen Sears, the City Council member representing Rego Park, had warned Wal-Mart, which has several stores in the suburbs surrounding the city, that to win approval in the city itself, it needed to improve its wages, health benefits and pensions and end its vehement stance against unions. 
 ''I am hopeful that if Wal-Mart attempts to locate another site, whether in Queens or Brooklyn, the Bronx, Manhattan or Staten Island, that its officials work tirelessly to improve workplace benefits and conditions so that New York City will welcome it with open arms,'' Ms. Sears said. ''Until then, we can only offer our backs."
 Small-business owners had voiced fears that opening a Wal-Mart in Queens would push hardware stores, shoe stores and many clothing shops out of business, as has been the case in many small towns where Wal-Mart is dominant. Company officials said the store would bring low prices to New Yorkers and would create more than 300 jobs.
 City Hall officials declined yesterday to discuss the Wal-Mart matter. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appeared at first to back the project, saying that it was wrong to simply say that warehouse-type stores should not be allowed in the city. But his aides later said that it was not at all clear that he would ultimately support the project.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Whatever eventually rises on this site in Rego Park, Queens, the city's first Wal-Mart will not be part of it. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); MAYORS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); HISTORY (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Organized Labor; Small Business; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Vornado Realty Trust

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); VNO (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



531 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 506 words

PERSON: David Bradford

HEADLINE: David Bradford, 66, Economist Who Advocated Tax Reform

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:
David Bradford, an influential tax economist who devised an innovative way to change the income-tax system to encourage people to save and invest more, died on Tuesday in Philadelphia. He was 66 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
 The cause was burns he suffered after a Christmas tree caught fire in his home on Feb. 8, his son, Theodore, said. 
 Dr. Bradford, who taught economics and public affairs at Princeton and was a professor at New York University School of Law, favored a switch to taxing what people spend but not what they save out of their earnings. 
 ''This would eliminate current inconsistencies in the taxing of different types of savings, create a more equitable distribution of the tax burden and bring about a more efficient use of the country's productive powers,'' he wrote in The New York Times in 1983.
 His system, which he called the X tax, resembles what is known as the flat tax, insofar as it eliminates taxes on income earned through savings. But unlike the flat tax, which applies a single rate for all income brackets, Dr. Bradford's X tax adds a graduated rate schedule, so that people with higher incomes pay at higher rates. 
 Also an expert on ways to carry out a transition to such a system, Dr. Bradford was deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy in the Ford administration, from 1975 to 1976, and was appointed by President George H.W. Bush to the Council of Economic Advisers, on which he served from 1991 to 1993. At the Treasury, he played an important role in producing the study that led to the publication of ''Blueprints for Basic Tax Reform,'' which was considered influential on President Ronald Reagan's sweeping tax overhaul in 1986.
 ''David's creative ideas have profoundly shaped tax reform,'' said Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economics professor and president of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
 David Frantz Bradford was born Jan. 8, 1939, in Cambridge, Mass., the younger child of Mark Waldo Bradford, a book publisher and descendant of William Bradford, governor of the Plymouth Colony, and Matilda Frantz Bradford. He attended Amherst, receiving a B.A. in 1960, and Harvard, where he earned a master of science in applied mathematics in 1962. After study at Churchill College, Cambridge, in 1963 and 1964, he worked for the secretary of defense as an economic consultant in Germany, England and Washington. He earned his Ph.D. in economics at Stanford in 1966.
 In 1964, Dr. Bradford married Gunthild Klaerchen Huober, a landscape designer whom he met at Stanford. In addition to his son and wife, he is survived by a daughter, Catherine Louise, known as Lulu, of Heidelberg, Germany; four grandchildren; and a sister, Victoria Witte, of Webster Groves, Mo.
 In 1966 Dr. Bradford joined the Princeton economics department, where he remained until his death, serving intermittently as associate dean of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and as acting dean in 1980 and 1987.
 He wrote ''Untangling the Income Tax'' (Harvard, 1986). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX REFORM (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); MARITAL PROPERTY (75%); BURN INJURIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MATHEMATICS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (61%); CHRISTMAS (57%); BOOK PUBLISHING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (86%); ENGLAND (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



532 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; BUSH IN EUROPE: MEETING IN GERMANY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: BUSH MAY WEIGH USING INCENTIVES TO DISSUADE IRAN

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WIESBADEN, Germany, Feb. 23 

 BODY:
President Bush said Wednesday that he and German, British and French leaders had discussed negotiating tactics to try to get Iran to give up its suspected nuclear weapons program, and his national security adviser later left open the possibility that Mr. Bush would consider offering incentives to dissuade Iran from its nuclear ambitions.
 The tactic of incentives, favored by the Europeans, had been roundly rejected by the Bush administration as recently as two weeks ago.
 Despite the glimmer of what the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, described as a ''convergence'' of the Americans and Europeans on the tactics to be used in negotiations with Iran, the president gave no indication that the United States would directly join in the talks, as the Europeans want.
 Mr. Bush made his remarks in the Rhine city of Mainz at a joint news conference with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany in the Electoral Palace, a reconstructed German Renaissance building that was once the home of the archbishop of Mainz. The president was on the third day of a four-day trip to Europe to repair relationships ruptured after the war with Iraq, and he and Mr. Schroder had talks that focused on Iran, touched on their disagreement over the Kyoto Treaty on global warming and generally helped publicly smooth over the rift between the nations. 
 Mr. Bush also sought to soothe growing fears in Europe that Iran would become the next battleground for the United States. 
 ''You know, yesterday I was asked about the U.S. position, and I said all options are on the table,'' he said, referring to comments he made at the European Union headquarters in Brussels. ''That's part of our position. But I also reminded people that diplomacy is just beginning. Iran is not Iraq.''
 On Tuesday at a news conference at the European Union, Mr. Bush said bluntly, ''This notion that the United States is getting ready to attack Iran is simply ridiculous.'' But then he immediately added, to some laughter, ''And having said that, all options are on the table.''
 The president also emphatically declared that blame for any lack of progress in the talks should be placed on Iran, not on the White House or Europe.
 ''The reason we're having these discussions is because they were caught enriching uranium after they had signed a treaty saying they wouldn't enrich uranium,'' Mr. Bush said of the Iranians. ''They're the party that needs to be held into account, not any of us.''
 In his public comments about Iran's uranium enrichment, Mr. Bush appeared to have misspoken, because the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty permits uranium enrichment for commercial purposes as long as a country declares the activity and allows inspections. 
 In Iran's case, it hid enrichment facilities from the International Atomic Energy Agency for a number of years, but when caught, said all of its nuclear activities are solely for commercial purposes. The United States has charged that Iran is secretly pursuing weapons development, but the agency says that it has found no concrete evidence of such a weapons program.
 Mr. Bush's discussions with Mr. Schroder on Iran come at a crucial time. Although Mr. Hadley denied any sense of urgency about the issue, European officials say the negotiations at the I.A.E.A. in Vienna are at an impasse, and they have become increasingly vocal in saying the talks will fail without the Americans at the table.
 The president has repeatedly said that he is ''consulting'' with the Europeans on the talks, but has never said why the Americans are not directly involved in the negotiations. The Europeans say one reason is Mr. Bush's staunch opposition to rewarding what he considers bad behavior by having the world's superpower at the same negotiating table with a nation he sees as a rogue.
 Mr. Bush, when asked at the news conference if he thought incentives for Iran would work, sidestepped the question. But he did warmly praise the Europeans for their efforts in the talks.
 ''I want to thank Gerhard for taking the lead, along with Britain and France, on this important issue,'' he said. ''It's vital that the Iranians hear the world speak with one voice that they shouldn't have a nuclear weapon.''
 A senior Bush administration official later said that Mr. Bush's praise represented a shift in the American attitude toward the talks. ''Last fall we were yelling at each other,'' the official said.
 In a briefing for reporters, Mr. Hadley said there had been discussions between Mr. Bush and Mr. Schroder about ''should there be a mix of carrots and sticks, and who should the carrots come from and what should they be.'' He said the president ''did a lot of listening'' and now ''has really got to go back and think about it, quite frankly.''
 Until now, the Europeans have in effect been offering Iran all the carrots in the talks, economic and political incentives if Iran disarms. In contrast, the United States has been offering sticks focused on the demand that the matter be referred to the United Nations Security Council, where political and economic sanctions would be considered.
 A growing body of international academics and former government officials say the only way to approach Iran is for there to be a ''convergence,'' the same phrase used by Mr. Hadley, and have both the United States and Europe join in presenting both incentives and threats.
 Mr. Bush spent a total of nine hours in Germany on Wednesday, his first trip to the country since the invasion of Iraq, and his first extended meeting with Mr. Schroder since the chancellor had lunch at the White House in February 2004. The two have had a tense relationship since Mr. Schroder campaigned for re-election in 2002 on what many in the White House considered an anti-Bush, anti-American platform. 
 People close to Mr. Bush said he had felt personally betrayed. Although the two leaders now seem to have reached a civil working relationship, the body language on Wednesday was anything but warm. Mr. Schroder looked stern and businesslike in his public appearances with Mr. Bush, who smiled as ''The Star Spangled Banner'' was played in a military welcoming ceremony under intermittent snow flurries. 
 But the two men did what they came together to do, which was to publicly play down their differences and present a united front on Iran.
 ''We absolutely agree that Iran must say no to any kind of nuclear weapon, full stop,'' Mr. Schroder said at the news conference.
 Mr. Schroder said he and Mr. Bush had discussed other issues on which they disagree, most notably the Kyoto Treaty on global warming, which Europeans support and the Bush administration opposes.
 ''The Kyoto Protocol was not appreciated by everybody, and that is something that has continued to exist,'' Mr. Schroder said. ''But I would like to emphasize that despite that, we would like to see practical cooperation with the reduction of problems in this area.''
 Mr. Bush said that ''I assured the chancellor that the United States cares about the quality of our air, obviously,'' and that the two countries should share research and technology that would improve the environment. Neither leader went much beyond those generalities. 
 Later in the day, Mr. Bush spoke to American troops at the nearby Wiesbaden Army Airfield, where Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who was traveling with the president, served as a warm-up speaker. Ms. Rice was raucously greeted with shouts of ''We love you!''
 In a pep talk delivered without notes, Ms. Rice asked the crowd of 3,000: ''Do you know why America has the greatest military in the history of the world? Because it has the greatest soldiers, airmen and seamen in the history of the world.''
 Mr. Bush then left for Bratislava, Slovakia, for meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with President Ivan Gasparovic of Slovakia on his arrival in Bratislava, where he is to meet President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%); RELIGION (53%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Tony (Prime Min) Blair; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Stephen J Hadley

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) HESSE, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); SLOVAKIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (91%); BELGIUM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Iran; Mainz (Germany); Iran; Germany; France; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



533 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 81 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: New Chairman For Economic Council

BYLINE: By Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)

 BODY:
President Bush named Harvey S. Rosen, an economist on leave from Princeton University, to be chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Rosen will replace N. Gregory Mankiw, who resigned last week and returned to Harvard University after two stormy years as one of Mr. Bush's top economic advisers. But White House officials indicated that Mr. Rosen would serve only as an interim chairman and plans to resume teaching at Princeton next fall. Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%) Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%) Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Harvey S (Prof) Rosen; N Gregory Mankiw

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



534 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Honey, I Shrunk The Dollar

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I have just one question about President Bush's trip to Europe: Did he and Laura go shopping?
 If they did, I would love to have been a fly on the wall when Laura must have said to George: ''George, do you remember how much these Belgian chocolates cost when we were here four years ago? This box of mints was $10. Now it's $15? What happened to the dollar, George? Why is the euro worth so much more now, honey? Didn't Rummy say Europe was old? If we didn't have Air Force One, we never could have afforded this trip on your salary!''
 The dollar is falling! The dollar is falling! But the Bush team has basically told the world that unless the markets make the falling dollar into a full-blown New York Stock Exchange crisis and trade war, it is not going to raise taxes, cut spending or reduce oil consumption in ways that could really shrink our budget and trade deficits and reverse the dollar's slide. 
 This administration is content to let the dollar fall and bet that the global markets will glide the greenback lower in an ''orderly'' manner.
 Right. Ever talk to someone who trades currencies? ''Orderly'' is not always in the playbook. I make no predictions, but this could start to get very ''disorderly.'' As a former Clinton Commerce Department official, David Rothkopf, notes, despite all the talk about Social Security, many Americans are not really depending on it alone for their retirement. What many Americans are counting on is having their homes retain and increase their value. And what's been fueling the home-building boom and bubble has been low interest rates for a long time. If you see a continuing slide of the dollar -- some analysts believe it needs to fall another 20 percent before it stabilizes -- you could see a substantial, and painful, rise in interest rates.
 ''Given the number of people who have refinanced their homes with floating-rate mortgages, the falling dollar is a kind of sword of Damocles, getting closer and closer to their heads,'' Mr. Rothkopf said. ''And with any kind of sudden market disruption -- caused by anything from a terror attack to signs that a big country has gotten queasy about buying dollars -- the bubble could burst in a very unpleasant way.''
 Why is that sword getting closer? Because global markets are realizing that we have two major vulnerabilities that this administration doesn't want to address: We are importing too much oil, so the dollar's strength is being sapped as oil prices continue to rise. And we are importing too much capital, because we are saving too little and spending too much, as both a society and a government.
 ''When people ask what we are doing about these twin vulnerabilities, they have a hard time coming up with an answer,'' noted Robert Hormats, the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. ''There is no energy policy and no real effort to reduce our voracious demand of foreign capital. The U.S. pulled in 80 percent of total world savings last year [largely to finance our consumption].'' That's a big reason why some ''43 percent of all U.S. Treasury bills, notes and bonds are now held by foreigners,'' Mr. Hormats said.
 And the foreign holders of all those bonds are listening to our debate. They are listening to a country that is refusing to raise taxes, and an administration talking about borrowing an additional $2 trillion so Americans can invest some of their Social Security money in stocks. If that happened, it would almost certainly weaken the dollar, further depreciating the U.S. Treasury bonds held by all those foreigners.
 On Monday, the Bank of Korea said it planned to diversify more of its reserves into nondollar assets, after years of holding too many low-yielding and depreciating U.S. government securities. The fear that this could become a trend sparked a major sell-off in U.S. equity markets on Tuesday. To calm the markets, the Koreans said the next day that they had no intention of selling their dollars.
 Oh, good. Now I'm relieved. 
 ''These countries don't have to dump dollars -- they just have to reduce their purchases of them for the dollar to be severely affected,'' Mr. Hormats noted. ''Korea is the fourth-largest holder of dollar reserves. You don't want others to see them diversifying and say, 'We'd better do that, too, so that we're not the last ones out.' Remember, the October 1987 stock market crash began with a currency crisis.'' 
 When a country lives on borrowed time, borrowed money and borrowed energy, it is just begging the markets to discipline it in their own way at their own time. As I said, usually the markets do it in an orderly way -- except when they don't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); CONFECTIONERY (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); BONDS (68%); CONSUMPTION (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Currency; International Trade and World Market; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005



535 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Groups Pledge to Account for Tsunami Aid

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER and STEPHANIE STROM; Elizabeth Becker reported from Washington for this article, and Stephanie Strom from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
With politicians increasingly concerned about corruption in charitable giving, aid groups are promising to account for nearly all of the billions of dollars donated to help the victims of the Asian tsunami disaster, a goal they have fallen far short of in past large-scale disasters. 
 Andrew S. Natsios, director of the United States Agency for International Development, said that ''for all the money Congress has appropriated, there will be very high levels of accountability'' in what has become the largest aid operation in history, covering Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and the Maldives.
 Much has been done to improve accountability in the last several years by relief groups and large organizations like the World Bank. Now the United Nations -- itself under pressure for its oil-for-food scandal -- is setting the pace for innovative changes to combat fraud that go far beyond these previous efforts. 
 The United Nations, the chief coordinator of the first phase of tsunami relief, has brought in the accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers to upgrade its online system to track donations and monitor for fraud. 
 The World Bank is listing contributions on a Web site, and Doctors Without Borders, the international medical group, has taken the most extreme step among the smaller charities. It is refusing more donations until it can show how every penny is spent. It even returned $500,000 to donors.
 But a shadow is still being cast over the United Nations' efforts on the tsunami aid because of problems with the oil-for-food project in Iraq, even though that program was handled outside of the normal aid agencies. Jan Egeland, who is in charge of the United Nations' tsunami efforts, said accounting for the money was ''crucially important for the credibility of the United Nations.'' 
 Saying the oil-for-food program ''failed miserably'' because of political favoritism and mismanagement, Representative Jerry Lewis, the California Republican who is the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, asked, ''Is this the kind of organization that we want to coordinate the disbursement of hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars to the tsunami victims?'' 
 Even before donors began responding to the tsunami, institutions that handle aid money had started making changes. For instance, most aid no longer goes directly to governments, in part because in many cases it ended up in Swiss bank accounts controlled by dictators. Now donors funnel their aid through United Nations agencies and nonprofit groups, or put it into trust funds administered by the World Bank and the United Nations Development Program, largely because it is far easier to hold these institutions accountable.
 James W. Adams, the World Bank's vice president for operations, said, ''What's different about this emergency is there is so much interest that we will do broader reviews.''
 Officials also said that the sheer magnitude of the donations and pledges for the tsunami victims, believed to total more than $6 billion, was another reason for heightened scrutiny.
 ''There is an awful lot of money that is going to be spent in a very short time,'' said Mr. Natsios of the Agency for International Development.
 Large-scale disaster programs are often characterized by confusion, with well-intentioned aid workers overextended and an overwhelming amount of money open to corruption.
 But ultimately, relief workers and some of their groups say, at least a small amount of money must be spent to get supplies through checkpoints or past customs officials.
 ''Inevitably, when you're trying to save life in a chaotic insecure environment like, say, Iraq, or trying to do recovery in the wake of rescue from a natural disaster, there are going to be kickbacks, somebody is going to figure out how to use money in a way that they shouldn't,'' said Neal Keny-Guyer, chief executive of Mercy Corps. ''But most of the organizations that are going to do the heavy lifting, we work darn hard to make sure that doesn't happen.'' 
 The hijacking of trucks filled with food or medicine was the most common example of theft cited by aid groups. However, that is far more common in war zones than in countries hit by natural disasters. Food aid has now become the most traceable of all relief items after years of tweaking monitoring systems, said Neil Gallagher, the director of communications for the World Food Program in Rome.
 When it comes to money, the chief institutions said they had internal as well as external auditors. The individual donor governments demand that the countries receiving the aid make a full accounting. 
 The accounting firm of Ernst & Young is advising the Indonesian government, which ranked as the fifth most corrupt in the world, according to Transparency International, a Berlin-based watchdog group that monitors corruption. And the private groups are accountable to their donors and the institutions for which they work.
 ''The accountants left with the first food supplies,'' said Sam Zarifi, Human Rights Watch's deputy director for Asia. 
 Some warn that these precautions may still not be enough.
 ''I think it is very helpful that all of these groups have been willing to publicly state the risk of corruption, but there are still real challenges out there, challenges that vary country by country and within countries,'' Peter Rooke of Transparency International said from Germany. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); TSUNAMIS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (90%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SCANDALS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (61%) Earthquakes; Tsunamis; Foreign Aid; Frauds and Swindling; Earthquakes

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (58%) Agency for International Development (Aid); United Nations; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Pricewaterhousecoopers; Doctors Without Borders

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JERRY LEWIS (58%) Elizabeth Becker; Stephanie Strom; Andrew S Natsios

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); MALDIVES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indian Ocean

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



536 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Antiques; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese Devotion To What Comes Next

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:
While Jesus said ''Do unto others as you would have them do unto you,'' the Chinese have a very different Golden Rule.
 ''There is an ancient Chinese proverb that says, 'Treat the deceased as you would the living,''' said Willow Weilan Hai Chang, the director of the China Institute Gallery in New York. She was discussing the diverse finds from recently excavated tombs in northeast China that make up ''Providing for the Afterlife: 'Brilliant Artifacts' from Shandong,'' a show on view at the institute through June 4.
 ''These objects certainly show a passionate devotion to the afterlife,'' Ms. Chang said. ''In them we see how the Han viewed the realm of the afterlife and how they prepared for it.'' 
 On display for the first time in the United States are jewel-like gilded horse and chariot ornaments, bronze ritual vessels, ceramic figural sculptures and incised tiles from tombs of the Western Han dynasty (206 B.C. to A.D. 9) in Shandong, on the northeast coast of China, facing the Korean Peninsula across the Yellow Sea.
 ''This province was one of the most prosperous during the Han,'' Ms. Chang said. ''Art, culture, literature, astronomy, the economy -- all flourished during the Han dynasty, so it would follow that the Han nobility would have highly impressive, elaborate tombs.''
 The Chinese equipped such multiroom tombs with plenty of objects for the afterlife. These imitate the possessions of the living -- life-size (or miniature) horses, carriages, warriors, dogs, roosters, money, wine jugs, pots, game boards, musical instruments and more, made of bronze, jade, lacquer, pottery and gold. The name for such articles is ''mingqi,'' meaning ''brilliant artifacts.'' 
 ''In the Han dynasty, tomb furnishings and grave goods were thought to provide for the deceased a celestial palace with all the comforts of an idealized home,'' Susan L. Beningson writes in the catalog. ''The tomb would contain favorite objects of the deceased, as well as objects denoting his rank and status.'' A staff member at the Princeton University Art Museum, Ms. Beningson is co-curator of the show with Cary Y. Liu, curator of Asian art there. 
 A bridle ornament excavated in 1999 must have been a favorite treasure. Teardrop in shape and 6.5 inches tall, the gilt bronze plaque was designed to hang over a horse's forehead, between its eyes. The decoration, in elaborate openwork, depicts a celestial horse with wings surrounded by scrolling clouds. The horse's forelegs are curled under him, while the back legs kick out, making a reverse S-curve.
 ''The bridle ornament is a masterpiece of gilt bronze work,'' said Conor Mahony, president of the Chinese Porcelain Company in New York. ''It is the star of the show.''
 ''The fact that it's gold probably indicates it's from a royal tomb,'' Mr. Liu, the co-curator, said in an interview. ''This was made for a living horse. The Han was a period when they were always looking for better horses.''
 According to ancient Chinese texts, emperors rode heavenly horses to the top of Mount Kunlun, where the immortals resided. In the catalog, Ms. Beningson quotes a poem about the search for immortality, from the ''Historical Chronicles of the Han Dynasty.'' Written in the voice of Emperor Wudi, who reigned from 140 to 87 B.C., it reads: ''I raise myself up, off we go to Kunlun. A celestial horse has come, mediator of the dragon. We wander the heavenly gates, view the jade terrace.''
 Annette L. Juliano, a professor of Asian art at Rutgers University in Newark, is an authority on horses in Han art. ''No other animal had a greater impact on China's real and imagined history,'' she writes in a catalog for a companion show at Princeton. This show, on the Wu family's tomb artifacts, opens on March 5 at Princeton's art museum. ''It was during the Han dynasty, however, China's first great empire, that the horse became identified with the emperor, the Son of Heaven, the individual responsible for maintaining harmony in the universe.''
 The most recently excavated piece at the China Institute is a clay equestrian figure found in 2002 in a 10,000-square-foot tomb site near the Weishan Mountains in Shandong. Over a foot tall, the man astride the horse is one of five cavalry figures (along with 55 horses, 4 chariots, 60 shields and a drummer). The figures were a symbolic military escort for royals moving into the afterlife.
 The rider has a wide face with a broad forehead, a small mouth and puffy cheeks. He wears a long cape.
 ''It's a very unusual costume,'' Mr. Mahony said. ''I haven't seen that garment before. The face is also very interesting; maybe he was a tribesman from the north, which is where most of the armies came from.''
 The rider's geographical origin is a mystery. Was he Mongolian?
 ''This piece was only recently excavated, so it's still being researched,'' Mr. Liu said. ''When you think of terra-cotta armies, you think of royal tombs in the capital. This is a royal tomb away from the center. We cannot draw any conclusions yet.''
 In the mid-1990's, Mr. Liu was involved in the excavation of Western Han Tomb 1, a royal tomb carved into the limestone cliffs of Mount Shuangrushan in Shandong. Never robbed, it contained more than 2,000 burial artifacts. It is thought to be the tomb of Liu Kuan, ruler of the Jibei Kingdom from 97 to 85 B.C., during the reign of Emperor Wudi. 
 ''Liu was forced to commit suicide for his licentious behavior with his father's widow and for cursing the emperor during a sacrifice,'' Mr. Liu writes. ''If the tomb's attribution is correct, Liu Kuan was granted royal burial privileges despite his disgrace.'' The show includes the ruler's 18-piece jade burial mask and a headrest in bamboo and jade, 20 gold ingots and some bronze coins. 
 ''He was allowed only a jade mask, not an entire jade suit, the norm in burials of the elite, because he had had an affair with his stepmother,'' Ms. Chang said. ''Jade had protective powers. He also had two jade pigs.''
 Saddle ornaments and fittings from life-size chariots found in the tomb are decorated with rings of gilt bronze. They are inlaid with gold and silver celestial cranes, deer, dogs and rabbits, animals that were considered auspicious.
 ''Not all chariots were lavishly decorated,'' Ms. Juliano writes. ''Only those with parasols or canopies, reserved for individuals of exalted rank, received fittings of gilt bronze and gold and silver inlay.''
 After seeing this show, one might think that in China, the deceased were treated better than the living.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Han bridle ornament in gilt bronze, excavated from a tomb in 1999, depicts a celestial horse with wings. (Photo by China Institute Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); SCULPTURE (76%); HORSES (75%); MUSIC (50%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%) Archaeology and Anthropology; Chinese Civilization; Tombs and Tombstones

ORGANIZATION: China Institute

PERSON: Wendy Moonan

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTHEAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (75%); SHANDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



537 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Some Who Urged Return Of Drugs Had Industry Ties
Ten of the 32 government drug advisers who last week endorsed continued marketing of the huge-selling pain pills Celebrex, Bextra and Vioxx have consulted in recent years for the drugs' makers, according to disclosures in medical journals and other public records.
 If the 10 advisers had not cast their votes, the panel would have voted 12 to 8 that Bextra should be withdrawn and 14 to 8 that Vioxx should not return to the market. [Page A1.]

Vaccine Programs Are Separated
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has decided to separate its national immunization program, which advocates for vaccination, from its vaccine safety branch, which monitors potential risks of the vaccines. [A18.]

Krispy Kreme Faces Another Inquiry
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, which is already under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission over the repurchase of franchisees, is also being investigated by the United States attorney in New York for related matters, the company said. Krispy Kreme said it would cooperate in the inquiry. [C12.]

Judge Dismisses Yukos Bankruptcy
A Houston bankruptcy judge dismissed an effort by the Russian oil company Yukos to seek protection in the United States. [C2.]

May Plans Sudden Board Meeting
The board of May Department Stores is planning a meeting on Saturday, an indication that it expects to receive a bid from its rival, Federated Department Stores, an executive close to the talks said. [C2.]

Four Retailers Exceed Forecasts
The retailers J.C. Penney, Limited Brands, Gap and Kohl's released results that surpassed expectations. [C3.]

Senator Faults Westlaw Database
As the fallout continued over the news of a security breach at ChoicePoint, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, took aim at another data search service, Westlaw, and promised to introduce broad legislation aimed at curbing identity theft. [C4.]

Cancer Therapy Licensed in China
Shanghai Sunway Biotech, a biotechnology company in Shanghai, has licensed worldwide rights to a cancer treatment from Onyx Pharmaceuticals, in Richmond, Calif. [C4.]

Orders to Factories Show Decline
Orders to factories for big-ticket manufactured goods fell 0.9 percent in January. [C2.]

Economic Openings at White House
President Bush's economic team is sparser now than it has ever been. [A16.]

Dow, S.&P. 500 and Nasdaq Rise
Stocks advanced. The Dow industrials rose 75 points, to 10,748.79. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 9.40, at 1,200.20. The Nasdaq composite index rose 20.45 points, to 2,051.70. [C6.]

Nestle Announces Stock Buyback
Nestle said it would buy back 1 billion Swiss francs, or $859.7 million, worth of its own stock. Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, Nestle's chief, said the plan to return spare cash to shareholders would begin in the second half. The buyback, the company's first ever, is a departure from the past practice of stockpiling cash to fund acquisitions, analysts said. The company also said its 2004 net profit rose 8 percent. [C5.]

Advertisers Flock to the Oscars
Advertising during the Academy Awards has major benefits regardless of ratings, marketers say. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,748.79 up 75.00Nasdaq composite -- 2,051.70 up 20.4510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.29% up 0.03The euro -- $1.3208 down 0.0018The dollar -- 105.40 yen up 0.55Graph: ''TODAY'' shows G.D.P. figures for the last six quarters.G.D.P.Fourth-quarter figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +3.7%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Krispy Kreme shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CANCER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (85%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); ONCOLOGY (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (75%); DRUG SAFETY (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); FRANCHISING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (72%); JUDGES (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (70%); FRANCHISEES (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (64%); IDENTITY THEFT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (82%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (56%); MACY'S INC (55%); WEST PUBLISHING CO (54%); CHOICEPOINT INC (53%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (52%); NESTLE SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: KKD (NYSE) (56%); M (NYSE) (55%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (52%); NESN (SWX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (56%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (53%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); EAST CHINA (67%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



538 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Orders Fall With Demand For Aircraft

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Orders to United States factories for big-ticket manufactured goods fell 0.9 percent in January, the worst showing in three months, as demand for commercial aircraft fell sharply, the government reported Thursday.
 The Commerce Department said demand for durable goods, items expected to last three or more years, dropped by $1.7 billion last month to a seasonally adjusted $200.4 billion. The weakness was led by a 27.1 percent decrease in orders for commercial aircraft. 
 The overall decline was larger than expected, but it followed two months of strong gains. Orders were up 1.4 percent in December after an even larger 2 percent rise in November. They fell by 1 percent in October.
 In a second report, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose last week by 9,000, to 312,000. The slight increase had been expected, given that claims had been declining in recent weeks. The four-week moving average of claims, devised to smooth out week-to-week volatility, dropped by 3,250 to a four-year low of 308,750.
 Economists said the level of claims indicated that the job market was continuing to gain strength after a prolonged stretch of weakness.
 Private economists said the factory orders report showed that demand for manufactured goods held up reasonably well in January, given that it was the first month after the end of special business tax breaks. Congress had passed those tax breaks to encourage companies to increase investment to help lift the country out of the 2001 recession.
 ''Any fears of a hangover in early 2005 after the expiration of the depreciation tax bonus at the end of last year can now be officially put to bed,'' said Steve Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital. Mr. Stanley said he was likely to raise his estimates of the strength of business investment in early 2005 based on the new durable goods report.
 The drop in orders reflected a decline of $2.17 billion in demand for commercial aircraft and parts, which fell to $5.84 billion last month. The 27.1 percent drop followed a 16.8 percent decline in December.
 Orders for autos and auto parts were down 3.8 percent to $38.15 billion. Analysts had expected a slowdown as auto dealers struggle to reduce a buildup of unsold cars.
 Excluding transportation, durable goods orders rose by 0.8 percent last month after a 2.8 percent surge in December.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Jan.: -0.9%Dec.: +1.4Nov.: +2.0Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from August 2003 to January 2004.(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); AIRLINES (72%); DEPRECIATION (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); EMPLOYMENT (53%) United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles; Unemployment Insurance; Labor; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



539 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Long-Term Help for the Poor

 BODY:
Recently, an alliance dedicated to vaccines for children in poor countries has received two staggering pledges: $750 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and $1.8 billion from Britain. Both donors said they had chosen that group, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations, because it offers a most cost-effective way to save lives. ''Supporting children's immunization is undoubtedly the best investment we've ever made,'' Bill Gates said. 
 The Gates Foundation's money will come in over 10 years, and Britain's over 15. Such long-term thinking is crucial for vaccines because it gives manufacturers a guaranteed market and allows countries to plan. The vaccine alliance was established in 2000 to provide this type of stability.
 Long-term planning is also essential for AIDS treatment. The World Health Organization announced at the end of January that throughout the developing world, 700,000 people are now taking antiretroviral drugs, up from 440,000 just six months ago. Although that is only 12 percent of those who need such medicines, this number is likely to soar in the next year. But looming over this good news is the shadow of long-term needs: once people start taking AIDS treatment, they cannot stop. If they do, they will die, of course, and their virus may mutate into a resistant form that threatens treatment globally.
 Unfortunately, AIDS patients in Africa must depend for their medicine on countries whose commitment is weak and unsteady. Rich countries themselves set a target of spending 0.7 percent of their gross domestic product on foreign aid. But the United States spends less than one-fourth of that target. Foreign aid has little domestic constituency, and is a favorite foil for politicians. 
 Even governments that understand how much good foreign aid can do give it short shrift when other demands arise. Tax cuts and the war in Iraq have led Mr. Bush to renege on commitments even to his most widely trumpeted programs, like his AIDS initiative and the Millennium Challenge program.
 The easiest way to create a long-term stream of money not subject to an annual political fight is for rich countries to cancel the poorest nations' debts. At a meeting earlier this month, the world's wealthiest nations agreed in principle to this. They must finally take this long-overdue step. Sub-Saharan Africa pays $15 billion a year in debt service, which is enough to fight AIDS. It is four times what it spends on health care, and more than it gets in foreign aid.
 Britain has come up with a clever way to reduce the burden of costly diseases now and save money in the future. British officials want to create an International Financing Facility, which would raise money in the financial markets by floating bonds backed by governments' promises of future aid. The money raised would go to increase vaccine coverage through the vaccine alliance and, if the facility expanded, to fight AIDS. The British proposal has substantial European backing, and it should proceed, although, typically, the Bush administration hates it.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); VACCINES (91%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIDS POLICY (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Editorials; Foreign Aid ; Third World and Developing Countries; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (90%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



540 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; DRIVING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Renting a Green Car: French Fries, Anyone?

BYLINE: By BONNIE TSUI

 BODY:
LAST October, Suzy Smith was looking for a rental car with good mileage for a weeklong vacation in Maui. She searched for ''rental cars on Maui'' on Google and found Maui Bio-Beetle, a company that rents cars that run on biodiesel fuel. She didn't know what to expect from a vehicle that used fuel made solely from recycled vegetable oil, but decided to give it a chance.
 ''It was fun!'' said Ms. Smith, who owns a conference-call business in Seattle. She ended up renting a Volkswagen Golf from Bio-Beetle for the week. ''The car had 'This vehicle powered by vegetable oil' written all over it, and people would stop and look and ask a million questions,'' she said. ''Every now and again when we stopped at a stoplight, we'd get a whiff of something like burned French fries, but other than that it was like driving a regular car.'' 
 Bio-Beetle is part of a growing trend in environmentally friendly rental cars and other forms of for-hire transportation. In several places across the nation, it is possible to rent -- by the hour, the day or the week -- hybrid gasoline-electric cars or cars that run on electricity, natural gas or, as in the case of Bio-Beetle's VW, vegetable oil. 
 Fueling the car, Ms. Smith found, proved to be fairly easy, with a Pacific Biodiesel station in a convenient location near Kahului Airport in Maui. And it was cheaper, too. ''When we refueled to go back to the airport, the price of biodiesel was quite a bit less,'' Ms. Smith said, about $2.30 a gallon versus $2.69 on average for regular unleaded.
 High gas prices are another reason why renting green is an attractive option. These days, alternative rental car companies like Bio-Beetle Rental Cars, which opened branches in Maui and Oahu in 2003, are seeing a rise in business, and larger rental corporations around the country like Budget and Enterprise have added environmentally friendly cars -- mostly hybrid gas-electric vehicles like the Toyota Prius and the Honda Civic Hybrid -- to their own fleets. Though still a small segment of the economy, the market for green cars is attracting attention in the rental car industry. 
 Given the popularity of vehicles like the Prius and the Civic Hybrid, it seems logical that companies like Enterprise -- with 5,400 locations, it's the largest rental car company in North America -- would add them to their fleets. And they have: in 2004, Enterprise had 2,700 Toyota Prius cars available for rent. But the shortage of cars available for sale is also limiting the numbers being sent to rental agencies. Enterprise had to return most of its Priuses after a few months, when its short-term lease on them expired, and by May the company will have none available.
 ''PART of our strategy is to offer products that reflect the driving public and the interests of the consumer, and customers want environmentally friendly cars,'' said Christy Conrad, a spokeswoman for Enterprise. She said that Enterprise was looking into other fuel-efficient vehicles, but that most were not marketed widely enough for its nationwide rental operation. For example, special fuel might be available only in one part of a city or not available at all in another. 
 But a local company like Bio-Beetle manages to avoid fueling problems because of Hawaii's restricted geography. Similarly, in places like San Francisco, where city traffic is heavy and parking is limited, it's not only possible but preferable to have a small, efficient car that can squeeze in anywhere. 
 Electric Time Car Rentals at Fisherman's Wharf, a prime tourist attraction, rents the GEM -- Global Electric Motorcar -- made by DaimlerChrysler. The quirky-looking vehicles (most are open-sided and have no doors) have zero emissions, reach a top speed of about 25 miles an hour, and have electric batteries that last for two hours of constant driving, or about 20 miles of city terrain. 
 ''In the summer, all 27 of our cars will be out and turned over a few times a day,'' said Bryant Benson, operations manager for Electric Time, which opened two and a half years ago.
 ''Fifty percent of our clientele are folks from out of town, and the other 50 percent live within an hour of the Bay Area. So lots of people come in via public transportation and then take our cars to tour around the city. They feel a lot closer to the sights with our cars.''
 A larger regional company, EV Rental Cars, has found perhaps the biggest success in the market by catering to green-thinking Californians. Based in Los Angeles, the company supplies rental-car companies with environmentally friendly vehicles, including the Toyota Prius, Honda Insight, Honda Civic (both the Hybrid and a natural-gas model) and the brand-new 2005 Ford Escape hybrid.
 The cars are now rented exclusively through Fox Rent a Car; also based in Los Angeles, Fox is an independent car rental company with 21 rental locations in 9 states. Fox began its agreement with EV Rental Cars on Jan. 15, and Joe Knight, vice president for business development at Fox, said that the company had already seen a big response.
 ''Southern Californians are very green here,'' Mr. Knight said. ''We're seeing that people who reserve these hybrid vehicles make up a very passionate, serious clientele.'' 
 Currently, Fox has 260 environmentally friendly cars available in its Los Angeles, San Diego, Orange County and Phoenix airport locations, but plans to have them in 10 more locations by the end of the year. By that time, EV also plans to double the number of rental cars available to Fox, to almost 500.
 ''I think the potential of renting green is enormous,'' said Shaun Stenshol, president of Bio-Beetle Cars. He has worked on renewable energy issues for a decade and found out about biodiesel fuel in 1996. ''I went seven years without owning a car because I didn't want to support an industry that, in my opinion, is the primary cause of pollution in the world. Biodiesel is a great renewable alternative that's available now, and I wanted to do what I could to promote it.''
 MR. STENSHOL'S company has six dedicated biodiesel vehicles (a seventh, a 2005 Jeep Liberty, will arrive next month). Each gets 30 to 45 miles a gallon, and rental rates are competitive, ranging from $199 to $283 a week. 
 Fortunately for earth-sensitive travelers, the network for renting green is beginning to expand beyond rental cars, to auto clubs and public transportation. Billing itself as an environmentally friendly alternative to AAA, the Better World Club (www.triplee.com) provides 24-hour nationwide roadside assistance -- for bicyclists as well as motorists -- while offering its members 10 percent discounts on hybrid and electric car rentals. One percent of all revenues go to environmental projects, it says. 
 PlanetTran (www.planettran.com), based in Cambridge, Mass., offers scheduled transportation, mostly to Logan Airport in Boston, in hybrid cars. PlanetTran's owner and founder, Seth Riney, said the company would be doubling its fleet to 10 cars by the end of the year. 
 The best bet for renting green, at least for now, is to look locally. But if the big drawback to widespread use of environmentally friendly cars is their availability, manufacturers might have to rethink their strategy. The act of renting out the cars may be the best way to promote green driving.
 David Koyle, a 59-year-old Maui resident who drives a Volkswagen Touareg, rented a Bio-Beetle for relatives to use when they visited him last year. ''After that, I'm thinking my next vehicle will be a hybrid,'' he said. ''I'm looking and watching and waiting for some of the hybrids to come out here to the market.''

RENTALS
From Biodiesel To All-Electric

GOING green does not require a lot of green. Rental rates for alternative-fuel cars are often competitive with those for gasoline-powered cars, which offer no eco-cachet. The problem is finding the cars. Here are some rental companies:

BIO-BEETLE RENTALCARS -- Available for rent at Maui Car Rentals, (800) 567-4659, and on Oahu at Tradewinds U-Drive, (888) 388-7368. Rates at each are $199 a week; daily rates available. More information is at www.bio-beetle.com.

ELECTRIC TIME CAR RENTALS -- In Anchorage Alley off Leavenworth Street at Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco, (415) 788-4300, www.etcars.com. Electric car rentals are $38.88 for the first hour for two-seat models, and half that for each additional hour.

FOX RENT A CAR -- Available at four locations in California and Arizona; (310) 641-3838, www.foxrentacar.com; hybrid cars from $35.99 a day, offered exclusively in partnership with EV Rental Cars, www.evrental.com.

ZIPCAR -- A car-sharing service specializing in short-term reservations, including hybrids, in Boston, New York, Washington and Chapel Hill, N.C.; (866) 494-7227; www.zipcar.com. Hourly rates begin at $8.50 and daily rates from $59, including gas, insurance and parking.


GRAPHIC: Photos: GASLESS -- Bryant Benson of Electric Time, above, shows Sally Tam, center, and Linda Chan the controls of an electric GEM in San Francisco. Left, a Bio-Beetle, which runs on vegetable oil. (Photo by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)(pg. F9)Drawing (Drawing by Gary Hallgren)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); OILS & FATS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); TRENDS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Automobiles; Renting and Leasing; Oils and Fats; Diesel Power; Electric Vehicles; Gas (Fuel); Travel and Vacations; Vegetables

PERSON: Bonnie Tsui

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); KAHULUI, HI, USA (78%) HAWAII, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



541 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Kansas On My Mind

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Call it ''What's the Matter With Kansas -- The Cartoon Version.'' 
 The slime campaign has begun against AARP, which opposes Social Security privatization. There's no hard evidence that the people involved -- some of them also responsible for the ''Swift Boat'' election smear -- are taking orders from the White House. So you're free to believe that this is an independent venture. You're also free to believe in the tooth fairy. 
 Their first foray -- an ad accusing the seniors' organization of being against the troops and for gay marriage -- was notably inept. But they'll be back, and it's important to understand what they're up to. 
 The answer lies in ''What's the Matter With Kansas?,'' Thomas Frank's meditation on how right-wingers, whose economic policies harm working Americans, nonetheless get so many of those working Americans to vote for them. 
 People like myself -- members of what one scornful Bush aide called the ''reality-based community'' -- tend to attribute the right's electoral victories to its success at spreading policy disinformation. And the campaign against Social Security certainly involves a lot of disinformation, both about how the current system works and about the consequences of privatization. 
 But if that were all there is to it, Social Security should be safe, because this particular disinformation campaign isn't going at all well. In fact, there's a sense of wonderment among defenders of Social Security about the other side's lack of preparation. The Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation have spent decades campaigning for privatization. Yet they weren't ready to answer even the most obvious questions about how it would work -- like how benefits could be maintained for older Americans without a dangerous increase in debt.
 Privatizers are even having a hard time pretending that they want to strengthen Social Security, not dismantle it. At one of Senator Rick Santorum's recent town-hall meetings promoting privatization, college Republicans began chanting, ''Hey hey, ho ho, Social Security's got to go.''
 But before the anti-privatization forces assume that winning the rational arguments is enough, they need to read Mr. Frank.
 The message of Mr. Frank's book is that the right has been able to win elections, despite the fact that its economic policies hurt workers, by portraying itself as the defender of mainstream values against a malevolent cultural elite. The right ''mobilizes voters with explosive social issues, summoning public outrage which it then marries to pro-business economic policies. Cultural anger is marshaled to achieve economic ends.'' 
 In Mr. Frank's view, this is a confidence trick: politicians like Mr. Santorum trumpet their defense of traditional values, but their true loyalty is to elitist economic policies. ''Vote to stop abortion; receive a rollback in capital gains taxes. Vote to stand tall against terrorists; receive Social Security privatization.'' But it keeps working.
 And this week we saw Mr. Frank's thesis acted out so crudely that it was as if someone had deliberately staged it. The right wants to dismantle Social Security, a successful program that is a pillar of stability for working Americans. AARP stands in the way. So without a moment's hesitation, the usual suspects declared that this organization of staid seniors is actually an anti-soldier, pro-gay-marriage leftist front.
 It's tempting to dismiss this as an exceptional case in which right-wingers, unable to come up with a real cultural grievance to exploit, fabricated one out of thin air. But such fabrications are the rule, not the exception. 
 For example, for much of December viewers of Fox News were treated to a series of ominous warnings about ''Christmas under siege'' -- the plot by secular humanists to take Christ out of America's favorite holiday. The evidence for such a plot consisted largely of occasions when someone in an official capacity said, ''Happy holidays,'' instead of, ''Merry Christmas.''
 So it doesn't matter that Social Security is a pro-family program that was created by and for America's greatest generation -- and that it is especially crucial in poor but conservative states like Alabama and Arkansas, where it's the only thing keeping a majority of seniors above the poverty line. Right-wingers will still find ways to claim that anyone who opposes privatization supports terrorists and hates family values. 
 Their first attack may have missed the mark, but it's the shape of smears to come.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); AGING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MARRIAGE (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); LITERATURE (63%) Social Security (US); Advertising and Marketing; Books and Literature; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (91%) Aarp

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (52%); RICK SANTORUM (50%) Paul Krugman; Thomas Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



542 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Act Globally, Get Stuck Locally

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
IN case you have just emerged from a cryonics experiment, the chatter this week was all about the 2012 Olympics and City Hall's hunger for a stadium on what has come to be known as the Far West Side.
 But across town, on what might be called the Far East Side, another real estate squabble is in progress. It may not be the blood sport that the struggle over the stadium has become. But it involves the United Nations, and that is good enough for some New York politicians who insist on conducting their own foreign policy. 
 At issue is the United Nations headquarters building, more than half a century old and in sorry shape. Some even consider it unsafe.
 Good, you can hear diplomat-hating New Yorkers muttering, let the place crumble. But for all its failings, the United Nations is not about to disappear. Another reality is that it is important to New York, try though its detractors may to pooh-pooh the point.
 The city's Economic Development Corporation says the organization generates 18,000 jobs and boosts the local economy by $2.5 billion a year. There is also a more intangible quality. ''It is largely because of the United Nations' presence that we refer to New York City as the 'Capital of the World,''' a senior city official wrote in 1995 on the organization's 50th anniversary. That was Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, never known for wantonly hugging the striped-pants set.
 Not surprisingly, the city and state want to help the United Nations repair itself. So do the White House and Congress, neither of them a likely place to find adoring portraits of Secretary General Kofi Annan.
 A deal that they all worked out provides for a $1.2 billion federal loan to get the headquarters in shape. But first, a new 35-story building would be constructed across 42nd Street, on a splatter of asphalt at First Avenue called Robert Moses Playground. This would be financed through roughly $700 million in bonds to be sold by a joint city-state agency, the United Nations Development Corporation. Rent from the United Nations would pay off the bonds.
 Thousands of headquarters employees would move into the new building while the old one is repaired. Once the work is done, back they will go. The new building would then be used to gather under one roof United Nations workers now scattered around Manhattan. Many are in city-owned spaces that, once emptied, could be put on the market.
 ''This is a win-win situation'' for the city and the United Nations, said Roy M. Goodman, the former state senator who is president of the United Nations Development Corporation.
 Not so fast. Remember, this is New York, where uncomplicated real estate deals are rare.
 The Moses Playground may not look like much, but it is a slice of open space for some East Siders, especially teams that use it for roller hockey. The local community board, No. 6, is not yet convinced that its interests are best served by new, vaster park space that the United Nations pledges to build along the river.
 A bigger obstacle is Albany. (What are the odds?) The Legislature must give its blessing to the playground arrangement, but the State Senate, taking the lead, has said no.
 ENTER foreign policy. Some lawmakers cannot pass up this opportunity to vent longstanding, not to mention widely shared, unhappiness with the United Nations. They have denounced it as anti-American, anti-Israel and corrupt, as evidenced by the charges swirling around the oil-for-food program.
 Then there is Old Reliable for New York politicians: parking summonses and diplomats' reputation for not paying them.
 In fact, the city's Finance Department says that the deadbeat rate has been reduced virtually to zero. That reality, however, has not stopped the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, from citing parking tickets as proof that the United Nations cannot be trusted to pay its debts. Never mind that the city says the organization has never missed a rent payment.
 Now the United Nations says it has begun looking for alternatives to the playground, just in case. But Mr. Goodman says he remains optimistic that the project can still be salvaged. ''This is so important to New York,'' he said.
 It is not lost on city officials that as rewarding as it may be for some people to stick a finger in the collective United Nations eye, the big losers would be the many New York construction workers who could see good-paying jobs float away. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); MAYORS (78%); BONDS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



543 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Minimal and Mad in Equilibrium

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Barry Le Va is unrepentant. After 35 years, his art still resists easy consumption. Which may be why the latest survey of his work is at the intrepid Institute of Contemporary Art, on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania here, rather than in a New York museum.
 Mr. Le Va is one of many artists who came along in the late 1960's and early 70's, looked at Minimalism and decided that objects were dispensable; art was now more a situation and a process than a finished, portable thing. He concluded this early, in 1966, while still a graduate student at the Otis Art Institute in Los Angeles. Working on an elaborate relief based on abstracted and dissected cartoons, he found himself more interested in the scraps of fabric and wood lying on the floor than in the piece itself.
 Soon he was making what he called ''distribution'' pieces from strips and shards of felt, puzzles parts, ball bearings, flour, iron oxide powder, mineral oil, poppy seeds, shattered glass and, on occasion, fully operational weapons. 
 It could be said that Mr. Le Va's American generation -- Richard Serra, Mel Bochner, Adrian Piper, Dorothea Rockburne, Joan Jonas, Alan Saret, Robert Smithson and Gordon Matta-Clark -- willfully misread Donald Judd's overly modest description of his compositional process as ''one thing after another.'' Judd meant orderly rows or stacks of boxes, all separate, equal and identical. His juniors envisioned sequences of often eccentric, if not dangerous, actions or procedures that were affronts to traditional order and objects.
 They reconsidered Judd's own precedents. They latched on to Jasper Johns's famous advice to ''take an object, do something to it, do something else to it'' -- but without the object. They warmed to Harold Rosenberg's assertion that Jackson Pollock and the Abstract Expressionists conceived of the canvas as ''an arena in which to act,'' minus the canvas. It is especially helpful to keep these precedents in mind with Mr. Le Va. Few artists of his generation have balanced so consistently and variously the methodical rationality of Minimalism with what we might call the Romantic quasi-madness of the Expressionist sensibility. For him, the room became the ''arena'' for action and the ''something'' he did was done to pliable or otherwise loose substances (including his own body).
 And burbling away at the center of his seemingly cerebral, mind-bending art lurks something dark, yet weirdly gregarious and outgoing, because it aims for total transparency.
 A recipe for a typical early Le Va piece might run something like: ''Cover the floor with long parallel lines of flour. Set electric fans in the middle of the room. Turn them on.'' From simple acts like this came moments of startling, ephemeral beauty whose genesis the viewer reconstructs. The work became, it was often said, a series of ''clues,'' the viewer a detective who recreated events -- in the hope of experiencing time, space and materials in a more mindful, uncentered way.
 Mr. Le Va entered the art world's consciousness in November 1968, when Artforum, the most prestigious art magazine at the time, devoted its cover to a close-up of one of his distribution pieces (also known as dispersal or scatter works). It was made of long narrow strips and tiny triangular clippings of felt, strewn about the floor like the aftermath of a ticker-tape parade. But fame was fickle.
 Today Mr. Le Va's influence reverberates through all kinds of subsequent art, by Jason Rhoades, Cady Noland, Karen Kilimnik, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Maurizio Cattelan and Urs Fischer, to name but a few. Yet Mr. Le Va remains, relative to his achievement and its importance, a markedly underappreciated, even underground artist.
 The Philadelphia show and its catalog -- which are both outstanding, span nearly 40 years of work and were overseen by Ingrid Schaffner, senior curator at the institute -- may or may not change this. But it lays out Mr. Le Va's development and persistent radicalism as never before.
 It includes little-seen early works, like a row of glass-fronted boxes hanging on the wall, each containing a sheet of felt folded more smoothly than the last. Mr. Le Va made this work, ''Felt: Placed, Folded and Compressed,'' in 1966-67, after the faculty at Otis refused to let him exhibit a sculpture without a pedestal in the graduate show.
 Other early works have been recreated from the artist's infamous ''violent period.'' The most complex of these is ''Shots From the End of a Glass Line'' (1969-70), in which bullets were fired at a slim iron pipe protruding 18 inches from a wall, in front of which extends a thick, nearly 12-foot-long swath of shattered glass meandering across the floor. (The shots, fired by a Philadelphia policeman, all missed this impossible target, as indicated by the halo of bullet holes around it.)
 Also here are ''Cleaved Wall'' (1969-70), a line of 12 meat cleavers stuck in the wall at about knee height, and the artist's most legendary work, ''Impact Run Energy Drain,'' a recorded piece now dated 1969-2005. It consists of the sound of the artist, now 63, repeatedly running across a room and hurling himself against a wall until immobilized by exhaustion. The exhibition echoes with the sound of his increasingly labored footsteps and consistently loud collisions.
 The show also displays a great many of the dense, elegant, increasingly large drawings that Mr. Le Va makes to plot his ephemeral sculptures and that push their medium in all directions. The latest direction is visible through tomorrow at the Nolan Eckman Gallery in SoHo, in a show of the unusually stark, implicitly architectural drawings for ''9gWagner,'' the new, brooding wall-and-floor piece that dominates the I.C.A. show like an immense organ and its congregation.
 As this exhibition demonstrates, Mr. Le Va's is an art of extremely economical, carefully controlled excess and extravagance, of violent actions and voluptuous materials presented in startling ways. They demand the viewer's full participation and make us sharply aware of the deliberate act of creation without proclaiming the artist's genius status.
 ''Cleaved Wall,'' for example, is elegant and scary. Look at this for very long and you grasp its precision and economy. The artist stood with his back against the wall, and with utter concentration and an emphatic downward gesture lodged each cleaver in the wall.
 The titles often provide important clues, as in ''Continuous and Related Activities: Discontinued by the Act of Dropping.'' First created in 1967, this work consists of large and small pieces of felt casually piled and strewn about the floor and topped off with a single, large sheet of broken glass. It was clearly dropped onto the felt, where it shattered and terminated any further arranging. The glass is ''like a period,'' the artist says in the audio guide to the show.
 One piece from the ''Accumulated Vision Series'' of the late 1970's is so spare that it is nearly invisible, which also makes it overly obscure. Made of round and square dowels of wood distributed sparsely on the floor and also the walls, it invites the viewer to envision the projection of invisible volumes formed by the implied intersections of the lines and points, or at least an attenuated form of drawing in space.
 Things are clearer in the brooding ''Bunker Coagulation'' of 1996. It demonstrates the way in which Mr. Le Va has built a degree of objectness back into his work, while still keeping it unstable and temporary, and the act of perceiving it dispersed and uncentered. This piece is a tight cluster of separate black volumes, both rectilinear and cylindrical, which confirm the title by evoking fortified architecture or the mustering of blood cells against outside invasion.
 More than perhaps any of his contemporaries, Mr. Le Va has remained amazingly true to first principles. You could say that he, like Judd and Robert Ryman before him, worked his way into a corner and was able to stay there because he never ran out of things to do. Within its seemingly limitless confines, he has conducted an examination of Minimalism's (and our) most beloved material -- space itself -- as a mental, physical and visual realm, realigning thinking with seeing and Pollock with Judd.

''Accumulated Vision, Barry Le Va'' is at the Institute of Contemporary Art, 118 South 36th Street, at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, (215)898-7108, through April 3.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A partial view of the Barry Le Vainstallation, with his ''Bunker Coagulation''in the foreground, at the Institute ofContemporary Art in Philadelphia. (Photo by Aaron Igler/Institute of Contemporary Art)(pg. E29)
 In a show of works by Barry Le Va: ''Continuous and Related Activities: Discontinued by the Act of Dropping'' (1967-90), left, and ''Cleaved Wall'' (1969-70), above. (Photographs by Aaron Igler/Institute of Contemporary Art)(pg. E33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%) Institute of Contemporary Art (Philadelphia)

PERSON: Roberta Smith; Barry Le Va

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



544 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Energy Shares Advance As Oil Prices Climb Again

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks advanced yesterday as a rise in oil prices above $51 a barrel lifted energy companies like Exxon Mobil and led the Dow Jones industrial average to its biggest two-day rally this year.
 The Dow industrials rose 75 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,748.79. The index's two-day, 1.3 percent increase was the largest since Dec. 22. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 9.40, or 0.8 percent, at 1,200.20. The Nasdaq composite index rose 20.45 points, or 1 percent, to 2,051.70. 
 Thirteen stocks were up for every six that were down on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.5 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board.
 Crude oil for April delivery rose 0.4 percent to $51.39 a barrel in New York, the highest close since Oct. 29, after the government said United States stockpiles gained half as much as forecast. 
 Two days earlier, the Dow industrials and S.&P. 500 had their steepest losses since August as oil climbed above $50 for the first time this year. Benchmark indexes rebounded on Wednesday after a report on consumer prices allayed concern that the Federal Reserve would need to accelerate interest rate increases.
 Exxon Mobil gained $1.71, to $61.13. Exxon Mobil overtook General Electric last week as the world's biggest company by market value. ConocoPhillips added $2.98, to $110.18.
 Makers of machinery and other capital goods rose after the Commerce Department said new factory orders for durable goods excluding transportation equipment increased a higher-than-expected 0.8 percent last month. 
 Caterpillar jumped $2.70, or 3 percent, to $93.16, its biggest one-day gain since September. G.E. increased 50 cents, to $35.55.
 Boeing climbed $1.22, to $53.94, after Ryanair Holdings ordered 70 Boeing 737 planes valued at more than $4 billion.
 Advanced Micro Devices rallied $1.02, to $17.62, as some analysts said the company might spin off its money-losing flash memory chip division, called Spansion. 
 Google and Yahoo, owners of the two most-used Internet search engines, fell after an analyst downgraded them and the America Online unit of Time Warner started a competing Web-search function to tap the advertising market that the two companies dominate.
 Google lost $5.06, to $188.89. Yahoo retreated 64 cents, to $31.48. The companies are cutting advertising prices as eBay and Amazon.com spend heavily to attract customers to their Web sites, Jordan Rohan, an RBC Capital Markets analyst, wrote in notes to clients. 
 FindWhat.com, an online advertising service, sank $2.50, or 19 percent, to $10.95. The company said on Wednesday that first-quarter profit excluding some items would be as much as 15 cents a share, below the average analyst estimate of 20 cents, according to Thomson First Call.
 Ask Jeeves, which owns Internet search sites including Ask.com and Excite.com, slid $1.48, to $21.77.
 Treasury notes fell yesterday after the government auctioned two-year securities at a higher yield than forecast. The price of the benchmark 10-year note dropped 7/32 to 97 22/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.29 percent, from 4.26 percent on Wednesday. Here are the results of the auction of two-year notes: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.764
High Yield: 3.498
Low Yield: 3.410
Median Yield: 3.470
Accepted at low price: 98%
Total applied for: $54,425,336
Accepted: $32,000,006
Noncompetitive: $921,336
Interest set at: 3 3/8

The 2-year notes mature Feb. 28, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, since November 2004.30-year: 5.19%15-year: 4.72%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); MEMORY CHIPS (66%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Credit; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (92%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); GOOGLE INC (82%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); BOEING CO (53%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%); AOL INC (52%); SPANSION INC (52%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (92%); COP (NYSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (64%); RYA (LSE) (64%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); CODE (NYSE) (52%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



545 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 15636 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:

Theater

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway, Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means discounted tickets were available at the TKTS booth for last Friday night. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Broadway

++'BROOKLYN BOY' One of the mortifications of middle age is being forced to admit the truth in those extra-mossy cliches that you mock when you are young and arrogant. The past always catches up with you; blood is thicker than water; be careful what you wish for. These are among the stale-but-true bromides that are acknowledged by the title character in Donald Margulies's sincere but doggedly unsurprising new play about the midlife crisis of a suddenly successful novelist (Adam Arkin). While this comic drama is steeped in an admirably humble and often touching spirit of acceptance, it seldom does what Mr. Margulies has achieved repeatedly before: make the familiar seem fresh. Polly Draper and Ari Graynor stand out in an excellent cast, smoothly directed by Daniel Sullivan (2:20). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $79.
BEN BRANTLEY

+'GOOD VIBRATIONS' Even those who believe that everything in this planet has a purpose may at first have trouble justifying the existence of ''Good Vibrations,'' the singing headache that manages to purge all catchiness from the surpassingly catchy hits of the Beach Boys. But audience members strong enough to sit through this rickety jukebox of a show will discover that the production, directed and choreographed by John Carrafa, does have a reason to be. ''Good Vibrations'' sacrifices itself to make all other musicals on Broadway look good. As the show's washboard-stomached performers smile, wriggle and squeak with the desperation of wet young things hung out to dry, you feel their pain. It is unlikely, however, to be more acute than yours (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $76 to $101; a limited number of $25 student rush tickets are available at the box office on the day of the show.
BRANTLEY

+'LITTLE WOMEN' Sutton Foster never merely walks when she can scamper in this perky, sketchy adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's classic novel of a Civil War-era New England girlhood. Portraying Jo the tomboy, Ms. Foster creates a dizzyingly hyperkinetic creature who, were she living in the 21st century, would probably be on Ritalin. Ms. Foster (a Tony winner for ''Thoroughly Modern Millie'') shows a gift for fresh, comic line readings. But her energy is often less infectious than exhausting. The same can be said of the show, directed by Susan H. Schulman and featuring a book by Allan Knee, with songs by Jason Howland and Mindi Dickstein. Watching the production is rather like speed-reading Alcott's novel. And the cast members, who include the mellow-voiced Maureen McGovern, mostly bring to mind 1860's-themed editions of the American Girl series of dolls (2:20). Virginia Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $100.
BRANTLEY

Off Broadway

'COUNSELLOR-AT-LAW' Entertainment in abundance radiates from the Peccadillo Theater Company's new production of this old Elmer Rice drama. Starring the Tony Award-winning John Rubinstein, ''Counsellor-at-Law'' is a drama that throbs with New York life and brims with touchstones of another time, like ''George White's Scandals'' and the Court of General Sessions. But it also retains relevance to ambition and success in the 21st century. It has a hero worth rooting for, a healthy dose of sacred and profane love, some sharp jabs at class difference, villains who merit a hearty hiss and plenty of New York attitude and humor (2:45). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)868-4444. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 2 p.m. Tickets: $55; $20 student rush tickets available at the box office 15 minutes before the show.
LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

'HAPPY DAYS' In this ill-conceived production, the comic Lea DeLaria rampages through the central role of one of Samuel Beckett's eloquently bleak masterworks. ''Happy Days'' is admittedly an acting challenge of a rare order, but Ms. DeLaria doesn't really even attempt it. Instead of inhabiting the play's indomitable central character, she simply recycles her natural comic persona, turning a potentially heartbreaking woman into a belligerent stand-up comic. Alternately racing through Beckett's dialogue or stretching it out needlessly, Ms. DeLaria grimaces and mugs, flaps her arms, tries out a half-dozen different funny voices. The endless activity is a sure indication that Ms. DeLaria either doubts her own ability to hold the audience's attention in the role, or doesn't trust Beckett's writing to do the same. (2:00). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212)279-4200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3. Tickets: $45 to $50.
CHARLES ISHERWOOD

* 'SHOCKHEADED PETER' A gorgeous ''nasty picture book'' of a musical, in which badly behaved Victorian tots come to ghastly ends. Inspired by Heinrich Hoffman's droll collection of grisly bedtime stories from the mid-19th century, ''Shockheaded Peter'' is both the silliest and most sinister show in town. It is also one of the smartest. Directed by Julian Crouch and Phelim McDermott, and featuring bizarrely beautiful songs by Martyn Jacques, ''Shockheaded Peter'' manages to wallow in and tear apart our enduring appetite for scaring ourselves. Though styled as a Victorian peep show, this British import makes contemporary self-spoofing horror exercises (like Wes Craven's ''Scream'' movies) look like, well, child's play (1:40). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Thursdays at 10 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $21.25 to $66.24.
BRANTLEY

'SHYLOCK' Deconstructing Shakespeare is a dangerous sport; it's impossible to be more imaginative or clever than the playwright himself, even if you are Harold Bloom. Gareth Armstrong gives it a game try, but ''Shylock,'' his 80-minute dissertation on the evolution of one of Shakespeare's most memorable characters, although deftly performed, is no exception. While his pocket synopses of anti-Semitism, Elizabethan England, Marlowe's ''Jew of Malta'' and even a Baedeker of famous actors' renditions of Shylock are edifying, they are not sufficiently enlightening or entertaining. The most riveting lines of Mr. Armstrong's monologue belong to Shakespeare himself (1:35). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village, (212)868-4444. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55; a limited number of $20 student/senior rush tickets available at the box office 30 minutes before the performance.
PHOEBE HOBAN

* 'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as stand-up existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. This monologue, which runs just over an hour and requires minimal stagecraft, is as unassuming in its means as it is astonishing in its impact. It's one of those treasured nights in the theater -- treasured nights anywhere, for that matter -- that can leave you both breathless with exhilaration and, depending on your sensitivity to meditations on the bleak and beautiful mysteries of human experience, in a puddle of tears. Also in stitches, here and there. Mr. Eno and his performer, the actor James Urbaniak, reinvent that seemingly moribund theatrical genre, the solo show. They are immeasurably aided by the work of the director Hal Brooks. Mr. Eno's voice, or the voice of the narrator/protagonist/master of ceremonies played by Mr. Urbaniak, is alternately lyrical and affectless, ecstatic and flat, sardonic and sincere. Stand-up-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative: Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212)239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 6 and 9 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets; $45.
ISHERWOOD

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' This lovably inconsequential, entirely adorable new musical brings to the stage the culture's current mania for celebrating that most revered of American virtues, the will to victory. A mock spelling bee, it pokes serious fun at its twitchy tween contestants -- in the loopy spirit of the movies ''Waiting for Guffman'' and ''Best in Show'' -- but also pays affectionate tribute to these quirky young spelling titans. William Finn's nimble, upbeat score provides the emotional underpinning for Rachel Sheinkin's more satirical -- indeed often riotously funny -- book. The director James Lapine, Mr. Finn's collaborator on ''Falsettos,'' is also in impeccable form, managing to transform into virtues two of the theater's most reliable pitfalls, namely audience participation and the usually ghastly conceit of adult actors' playing kids (1:45). Second Stage, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)246-4422. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $75.
ISHERWOOD

+'THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS!' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater. It is always paying homage to itself. Parody is the best form of narcissism. All it needs is smart writers and winning performers. That's what we get In the case of ''The Musical of Musicals!'' Two of the performers are also the creators: Joanne Bogart (lyrics) and Eric Rockwell. (music). Aided by Lovette George and Craig Fols, they offer spoofs in the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber and Kander and Ebb. The best parodists don't sneer, they tease, and share the form's joie de vivre.'' Aficianados will get every joke and neophytes will laugh too. ''The Musical of Musicals!'' creates its own lightly absurd world (90 minutes). Dodger Stages, 340 West 5oth Street, (212)239-6200. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 4 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $55 to $59.50.
MARGO JEFFERSON

Off Off Broadway

'HIDING BEHIND COMETS' The dynamics of the guy-walks-into-a-bar play are tricky. Inject a set of twins into the mix, as Brian Dykstra does in his play, and you've pretty much doomed the venture. In fiction, they too often seem like a cheap gimmick. The twins here are a male-female pair, 20-somethings named Troy (Robert Mollohan) and Honey (Moira MacDonald). They mind their father's dingy bar. The stranger who intrudes is Cole (Dan Moran), an elliptical older fellow with a temper. After much verbal sparring, the point emerges: Cole was supposedly at Jonestown during the mass suicide there in 1978, and he has dropped by the bar to force Honey and Troy to rethink their parentage. Mr. Dykstra's script sounds as if it's banking on the shock value of Jonestown, hoping that the audience, like the idiot twins on the stage, will not have heard of it. Way too early for that (1:45). 29th Street Rep, 212 West 29th Street, (212)868-4444. Thursdays through Mondays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $19.
NEIL GENZLINGER

Last Chance

'THE CHERRY ORCHARD' In this stunningly powerful production, an intriguing balance arises between Lopakhin, the bourgeois former serf, and the aristocratic family that owns the cherry orchard and whose fortunes are all but dried up. The landowner Lyubov Ranevskaya (Petronia Paley), returning penniless from her life abroad, is as elegant as she is self-delusional. Against her beauty and her dignity, Lopakhin (Wendell Pierce), the archetype of the small-minded arriviste, is a hard man to like. But this production brings out their shared past in subtle but forceful gestures that complicate the audience's sympathies (2:00). Harlem School of the Arts Theater, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, (212)868-4444. Tonight and tomorrow at 8; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $25.
CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

'A CLOCKWORK ORANGE' When Stanley Kubrick made his 1971 film adaptation of Anthony Burgess's sci-fi novella ''A Clockwork Orange,'' he left out the sunny final chapter in which Alex, the ultra-violent gang member, abandons his reckless youth and dreams of kids and a family. Burgess, who hated the film, put this coda back in his theatrical adaptation, proving that playwrights aren't always their own best critics. Joe Tantalo's purposeless production of ''Clockwork Orange'' never escapes the shadow of the iconic film. Randy Falcon, who plays Alex, doesn't bring the personality of a leading man, and in some ways, that's O.K. In the film, Alex's eye had a mischievous twinkle, but, here, it's glassy and expressionless -- a window into nothing in particular (1:20). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212279-4200. Tonight and tomorrow at 8; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets $25, $15 student rush tickets available on day of performance.
JASON ZINOMAN

'DAY OF RECKONING' This play about the anarchist and labor reformer Lucy Parsons is unevenly paced and clumsily staged, but it has this saving grace: unlike some other theatrical efforts associated with Black History Month, it is not shallow hero worship. Parsons was a decidedly flawed hero, and Melody Cooper, the playwright, leaves those flaws in plain sight. As a young woman, Parsons, played by Ms. Cooper, called herself Lucy Gonzalez and tried to pass as Mexican and American Indian. And in her militant-labor phase, with her white husband, Albert, she exhorted followers, ''Learn to use explosives.'' When the Parsonses' domestic bliss is shattered by the Haymarket Riot of 1886, Lucy loses her bearings, and her son pays an appalling price. Ms. Cooper's recounting of this fascinating life could benefit from a large infusion of understatement, but still, Parsons's story is one that deserves to be told (1:50). All Stars Project's Performing Arts and Education Center, 543 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)941-1234. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. . Tickets: $15.
GENZLINGER

'FAT PIG' Neil LaBute's latest work is on one level yet another demonstration that men are paragons of bad faith and cowardice, a judgmental tradition that this writer established with his screenplay for ''In the Company of Men.'' Yet ''Fat Pig,'' directed by Jo Bonney, is also the most emotionally engaging and unsettling of Mr. LaBute's plays since ''Bash'' five years ago. A show that might have been merely a point-proving exercise is immeasurably enriched by Mr. LaBute's empathy and by the skill and honesty of Ashlie Atkinson as the overweight woman a rising executive falls for (1:40). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)279-4200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2:30 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $50.
BRANTLEY

'THE FLID SHOW' With the drug Vioxx making headlines because of its recent recall over adverse side effects, Richard Willett's play gains an unsettling topicality. The play traces the history of Thalidomide, the sleeping pill widely distributed in Europe in the late 1950's and early 60's that caused birth defects when taken by pregnant women. Mat Fraser, a seasoned and charismatic British actor who was himself a ''Thalidomide baby,'' stars as Duncan, a lounge singer coming to grips with the anger and resentment fueled by his lifelong struggles. In Mr. Willett's fanciful dramatic scheme -- borrowed from a certain Dickens holiday favorite, as he acknowledges -- Duncan's psychological scars are healed by a series of ghostly visitors who sweep him through time and space. The documentary aspects of the play are absorbing and often poignant, but Duncan's personal story, centering on his rocky romance with a doctor and a reconciliation, in spirit at least, with his dead mother, is crudely drawn and cliched. (2:15). Medicine Show Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212)352-3101. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets: $15.
ISHERWOOD

'LEARNING CURVE' Rogelio Martinez's play gets off to a promising start but never quite arrives. The recipe for this civil-rights souffle has all the right ingredients -- an interesting premise, intelligent writing and several noteworthy performances -- but in the end it falls flat. The play, which jumps somewhat confusingly between past and present, revolves around the interracial relationship of David, a black freshman, and Sally, a white junior with a tenured-professor father at an unnamed Ivy League college. There are further complications when Sally exhibits controversial photographs she's taken of David, climaxing in the 1968 armed takeover of a campus building by African-American students. Loosely based on a real-life event at Cornell, ''Learning Curve'' examines racism, the white academic patriarchy and the double-edged sword of affirmative action (2:10). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, (212)279-4200. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $15.
HOBAN

'A LIFE A BROAD (MI VIDA EN JIRA)' Melanie Rey has a big bright voice, and her one-woman show is a musical. She style-surfs through multiple styles in English and Spanish: ballads, Anglo rock, R&B and Tex-Mex. She is an accomplished actor too, but the word ''accomplished'' often means that an actor with all the right moves shows them all too predictably. A one-person 90-minute show needs more. Ms. Rey's real talent comes through unstrained when she plays her passionate, husband-hunting mother. When she plays herself, she is working too hard to win our love (1:30). Greenwich Street Theater, 547 Greenwich Street, at Charlton Street, South Village, (212) 252-2439. Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m.; Monday at 8 p.m. Tickets: $30.
JEFFERSON

'THE SECRET NARRATIVE OF THE PHONE BOOK' Spouting cascades of words, like fireboats expelling water in a harbor parade, the four actors in Gordon Cox's satiric new play manage to keep the pressure high for the first half of the evening's 90 minutes. It's a feat, because the self-described ''romantic comedy hijacked by a conspiracy thriller'' ultimately falls victim to overearnest lecturing and a convoluted plot about media control by a Big Brother phone company. Still, the fact that Mr. Cox, a theater critic for Newsday, obviously loves language, makes the early scenes a kick to hear (1:30). Kraine Theater, 85 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)868-4444. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3. Tickets: $15; $8 for students.
ANDREA STEVENS

+'SLEEPING BEAUTY' Trust a British ''Sleeping Beauty'' to pivot on a fairy's flatulence. Yes, that surefire laugh trigger in old Blighty plays an unexpectedly large role in Rufus Norris's murky new version of the familiar fairy tale for the Young Vic Theater Company. Mr. Norris, a talented young British director, isn't interested in pretty pictures. His vigorously staged, grotesquely comic ''Sleeping Beauty,'' which unfolds in smoky darkness beneath a queasy yellow moon, is entirely in tune with the current vogue for teasing out thickets of disturbing subtext in children's literature. The production's eccentric designs accentuate the predominantly eerie air (2:00). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, (212)239-6200. Tonight at 7; tomorrow and Sunday at 1 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $10, $20 and $30.
ISHERWOOD

'YOKASTAS REDUX' When Richard Schechner, the founding director of the Performance Group, realized that just one major female figure in Greek mythology did not have a play of her own, he decided to create one. With the Romanian writer Saviana Stanescu, he has created this mostly fascinating retelling of the Oedipus story from the perspective of the woman who marries and bears children with her first-born son. The conventions of postmodern theater are all here but are used with unexpected power and wit. Like the carnal relation at its center, this play is tender, pornographic, antic and intensely compelling (1:50). La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, (212)475-7710. Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow and Sunday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $15.
MIRIAMHORN

Movies

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'THE AVIATOR' Starring Leonardo DiCaprio. Directed by Martin Scorsese (PG-13, 169 minutes). The famously eccentric and reclusive empire builder Howard Hughes was born alone and died alone -- two times when he was no different from anyone else. For the rest of his life, the high-flying Hughes seemed to have drifted in from some distant aerie, where exotic birds hatch far from everyday worries. At the age of 18, he was both an orphan and a millionaire, and while he could never be called ordinary, in the following two decades his wealth and all that it afforded brought him a very American kind of celebrity. It is that celebrity, fueled by money, stoked by matinee looks and playboy style, that preoccupies ''The Aviator,'' Mr. Scorsese's visually sumptuous if disappointingly hollow account of Hughes's early life. Written by John Logan, the story principally covers the late 20's through the 40's, when Hughes, played by Mr. DiCaprio, was gadding about both Hollywood and the aviation world.
MANOHLA DARGIS

'BECAUSE OF WINN-DIXIE' Starring Annasophia Robb and Jeff Daniels. Directed by Wayne Wang. (PG, 97 minutes) Were it not for a couple of cars, a little girl's pink poodle backpack and a reference to e-Bay, Wayne Wang's ''Because of Winn-Dixie'' could easily be mistaken for a film set in the 1950's. It has old-fashioned and heartwarming written all over it, in heavy black Magic Marker. Adapted from Kate DiCamillo's best-selling children's novel, this is the story of Opal Buloni (Ms. Robb), a very lonely 10-year-old since she and her father (Mr. Daniels), a minister, have moved to Naomi, Fla., a town so small (or odd) that church services are held in a convenience store. So when Opal sees a scruffy dog loose in a Winn-Dixie supermarket one day, she claims him, names him for the place where they met and takes him home. Once Opal has Winn-Dixie at her side, she makes new friends easily. This is a harmless, pleasant comic drama, but elements that may have seemed delightfully eccentric in print take on unfortunate new tones when translated to film. Sometimes you can't tell the magic realism from the corn.
ANITA GATES

'BOOGEYMAN' Starring Barry Watson. Directed by Stephen Kay (PG-13, 86 minutes). There are a lot of close-ups of doorknobs and water faucets in Mr. Kay's would-be horror film. There is a supernaturally speedy killing accomplished with heavy-duty plastic wrap. There is frequent whooshing and rapid camera movement. Despite all of that, it isn't scary. Mr. Watson, of ''Seventh Heaven,'' plays Tim, a grown man who has been afraid of the boogeyman ever since he was 8, when something creepy sucked his father into a closet and out of this life. After his mother's death, Tim vows to spend a night in his childhood home to allay his fears, but, sure enough, the boogeyman is back and after him and everyone he cares about (well, an uncle and two girlfriends). The house is very creaky; so is the movie.
GATES

'BRIDE AND PREJUDICE' Starring Martin Henderson and Aishwarya Rai. Directed by Gurinder Chadha (PG-13, 111 minutes). Because Ms. Chadha knows how to sell multiplex multiculturalism -- her last feature was ''Bend It Like Beckham'' -- the pitch for her new film probably ran something along the lines of: ''Jane Austen's 'Pride and Prejudice' recontextualized as a Bollywood musical (only shorter) and set against the backdrop of the new global economy.'' Whatever the case, the new film -- which transposes Austen's 1813 novel to 21st-century India, with layovers in swinging London and sunny Los Angeles -- is as high concept and rife with cliche as anything churned out by Hollywood, but with worse production values and a load of sanctimony. Think ''My Big Fat Sari Wedding'' tricked out with clumsy song-and-dance numbers and delivered with much finger-wagging about cultural tolerance. The kicker here being that the wagging finger belongs to the story's heroine, here called Lalita (Ms. Rai, radiantly beautiful but inert), and the object of her high-mindedness is none other than a wealthy American, Will Darcy (Mr. Henderson, just inert).
DARGIS

'CONSTANTINE' Starring Keanu Reeves. Directed by Francis Lawrence. (R, 122 minutes). Hell's bells! Sprung from the Matrix, Mr. Reeves glowers his way through another effect-heavy, convoluted journey between worlds, in this case defined by theology rather than technology. He is John Constantine, who travels back and forth between our world and the one below, working as a kind of free-lance border guard, sending stray demons back into the fiery depths (where they appear to have cars). But something big is brewing, involving rebel angels, the son of Satan, and a whole lot of pseudo-biblical mumbo-jumbo. Assisting Mr. Reeves are Rachel Weisz, as a Los Angeles police detective whose sister has jumped off a roof, and Shia LeBoeuf as an eager dabbler in the occult. Tilda Swinton is the angel Gabriel, doing a bit of slumming after boffo work in Milton's ''Paradise Lost.''
A.O. SCOTT

'DOWNFALL' Starring Bruno Ganz. Directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel. (No rating, 155 minutes; in German, with English subtitles). Mr. Ganz plays Hitler, palsied and furious, as his Reich collapses around him and the Red Army closes in. Surrounding him are his followers, some fanatically loyal, others wavering in the face of defeat, who must all play out the endgame of their ghastly world-historical project. Mr. Hirschsbiegel's film, taking place at the moment when the energies of Nazism turned from murder to suicide, is engrossing and well made, but it does not generate much feeling beyond a queasy, prurient fascination. Its most daring gambit -- to treat Germany's monsters as human -- is also the source of its greatest failure, which is that it uses the conventions of wartime melodrama to elicit sympathy for people who hardly deserve it. Those who turn away from Hitler at the bitter end are restored to innocence, when in fact they were loyal Nazis whose convenient disillusionment -- coming as Russian soldiers appeared over the horizon -- is treated as a heroic exercise of conscience.
SCOTT

'HIDE AND SEEK' Starring Robert De Niro, Dakota Fanning, and Amy Irving. . Directed by John Polson. (R, 105 minutes). In this downbeat, sufficiently unsettling film, Mr. De Niro plays a New York City shrink, David, who's married to a somnolent type (Ms. Irving), whose love for their daughter, Emily (Ms. Fanning), can't disguise her unhappiness. Soon after the story starts, violence descends on the family, and David and Emily move to the country for some healing. Once there, things go from lousy to worse, as Emily starts staring blankly into the surrounding woods and palling around with a sinister invisible friend called Charlie. Blood drips into the story; then it pours. One of the most gifted child actors around, Ms. Fanning has both chops and a preternaturally intense screen presence; even when you don't believe the setup, you buy what she is selling. That's a good thing when it comes to this horror-thriller hybrid, which was written by Ari Schlossberg and needs all the help it can get from its actors.
DARGIS

'HITCH' Starring Will Smith, Eva Mendes, Kevin James and Amber Valetta. Directed by Andy Tennant (PG-13, 115 minutes). As soft and sweet as a marshmallow, and about as interesting, this genial romantic comedy features the ever-charming Mr. Smith as a dating coach who helps hapless Manhattan men snag women much better looking than they are. His own head is turned by Ms. Mendes, playing surely the most kindly gossip columnist ever to grace the pages of a New York tabloid. Complications, as always, ensue, but nothing too challenging or painful, either for the central couple or for the audience. Mr. James, best known as the portly King of Queens on television, is around for comic relief as an especially needy client, who is smitten with the willowy Ms. Valletta.
SCOTT

'INSIDE DEEP THROAT' Written and directed by Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato (NC-17, 90 minutes). It was the image seen -- cheered and jeered, canonized and demonized -- around the world. In 1972 Linda Lovelace, nee Linda Boreman, star of the notorious hard-core movie ''Deep Throat,'' played the role that would bequeath on her a tawdry and lasting celebrity. With a single act of extreme fellatio, this dazed and often confused 23-year-old became a pinup for the party animal's sexual revolution and, in time, a martyr in the crusade against pornography. But as is clear from this lively, if maddeningly reductive documentary, Ms. Boreman was also little more than a pawn, an empty vessel for opportunists from both sides of the pornography divide. The documentary is a ''slam, bam, thank you, ma'am'' trifle of an entertainment, one strategically packaged for Generation A.D.D.
DARGIS

* 'THE MERCHANT OF VENICE' Starring Al Pacino, Jeremy Irons, Joseph Fiennes and Lynn Collins. Directed by Michael Radford (R, 127 minutes). Shakespeare's most problematic play -- at least with respect to modern sensitivities -- receives an intelligent interpretation from Mr. Radford and a superb cast. Mr. Pacino, showing welcome restraint after a series of overdone stage and screen performances, emphasizes Shylock's grief and estrangement, turning him into a fragile monster. But his villainy, however much it smacks of blood libel, cannot be discarded without compromising the play's complex ideas about justice and duty, and Mr. Radford does not try to wash away the stain of anti-Semitism that is woven into the heart of his source. He does remind us how much more is going on in the play, and along with his talented production designer and cinematographer, he renders Venice as a series of Renaissance paintings -- tableaus that in evoking Velazquez, Rembrandt, Titian and Vermeer immerse us in the ferment of early modern Europe. Mr. Irons is quietly mesmerizing in the title role, a creature of mysterious melancholy whose soul seems at once pure and rotted. The movie really belongs to Ms. Collins, who gives Portia her rightful wit and charisma, and makes her the play's cruel and lovely moral center.
SCOTT

* 'MILLION DOLLAR BABY' Starring Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman. Directed by Mr. Eastwood (PG-13, 135 minutes). Mr. Eastwood takes what appears to be a conventional boxing-melodrama plot about a crusty old trainer whose heart is melted by a spirited young fighter and turns it into a glowing, somber meditation on friendship, ambition and death. The picture's scale is small, and its pacing leisurely, which gives you a chance to savor three lovely performances: from Ms. Swank as the young boxer, Mr. Freeman as a world-weary former contender and Mr. Eastwood as the trainer, Frankie Dunn. At 74, Mr. Eastwood has achieved a level of mastery that leaves him with nothing to prove, and so, unafraid of sentiment and willing to risk cliche, he has made a graceful, lyrical, devastating masterpiece -- the best film released by a major Hollywood studio in 2004.
SCOTT

* 'NOBODY KNOWS' Starring Yuya Yagira. . Directed by Hirokazu Kore-eda (PG-13, 141 minutes; in Japanese, with English subtitles). Based on the true story of four children abandoned by their mother in a small Tokyo apartment, Mr. Kore-eda's fourth film is at once harrowing and tender, an urban horror story with overtones of fairy tale. Restricting himself to the children's point of view, the director creates an almost unbearable sense of dread in the audience; you can't help suspecting that, at every moment, something terrible is about to happen. But at the same time, because the children themselves do not perceive the full terribleness of their situation, the terror is mitigated by a sense of wonder and adventure. The keys to this meticulous and deeply humane film are Mr. Kore-eda's deft camera sense and the remarkable performance of the 12-year-old Mr. Yagira as Akira, the oldest of the four siblings, who must somehow preserve his own innocence while protecting his more vulnerable brother and sisters.
SCOTT

'ONG BAK: THE THAI WARRIOR' Starring Tony Jaa. Directed by Prachya Pinkaew (R, 101 minutes; in Thai, with English subtitles). Martial arts for purists who disdain wirework, computer-generated imagery and digital tweaking. Ting (Mr. Jaa) a country bumpkin trained in the deadly art of Thai Muay, travels to Bangkok to retrieve the stolen head of his village Buddha. Once there, his peaceful disposition is challenged by all manner of thugs and lowlifes. The story is beside the point: like the low-budget Hong Kong action pictures of the 1970's, this movie offers scrappy, ingenious fight choreography. The director is so enamored of some sequences that he treats himself -- and the audience -- to instant replays.
SCOTT

'POOH'S HEFFALUMP MOVIE' With the voices of Jim Cummings, John Fiedler and Kyle Stanger. Directed by Frank Nissen. (G, 63 minutes). In A.A. Milne's Winnie the Pooh stories, Piglet once thought he had seen a heffalump, but it was really just Pooh with a honey jar stuck on his head. In this adorable animated film, he and the other animals finally encounter the real thing. And it (Lumpy the baby heffalump) is too cute for words, largely thanks to the endearing voice and infectious laugh of 8-year-old Kyle Stanger. The plot involves Roo capturing Lumpy (who thinks a visit to the Roo's part of Hundred Acre Wood sounds like a fine game) and Pooh, Tigger, Eeyore and company learning that Heffalumps aren't scary at all. There is a dash of child-pleasing animated slapstick, a few nice Carly Simon songs and a crucial lesson about the dangers of misjudging people just because they are different from you.
GATES

'SON OF THE MASK' Starring Jamie Kennedy. Directed by Lawrence Guterman. (PG, 86 minutes) Tim Avery (Mr. Kennedy) is a would-be cartoonist and full-time schlemiel, stuck at a low-level job at a cutting-edge animation company. Tim chances upon a wooden mask that his dog Otis dragged home. As viewers of the original 1994 film ''The Mask'' will know, this artifact is the property of Loki, the Norse god of mischief. Whoever dons it immediately becomes a computer-animated whirlwind of obnoxious egotism and untrammeled desire. In short order, Tim has gotten himself promoted at the company and impregnated his wife (Traylor Howard). But alas, their son Alvy is ''born of the Mask'' -- he's a semi-digitized superbaby, capable of shape-shifting, tap-dancing, and feats of superhuman strength. When Loki (Alan Cumming) decides to come back for his mask, Tim is in for a roller-coaster ride of manic chase scenes and computer-assisted mayhem. Youngsters will suffer no lasting harm from this frantic, grating spectacle, but their less resilient parents may not be so lucky.
DANA STEVENS

'THE WEDDING DATE' Starring Debra Messing and Dermot Mulroney. Directed by Clare Kilner (PG-13, 90 minutes). Ms. Messing stars as Kat Ellis, a New Yorker en route to London for her younger half-sister's wedding. Since there is no man in Kat's life, she turns to the classified ads for male escorts. In a fantasy worthy of ''Pretty Woman,'' the male prostitute she hires turns out to be a hunk (Mr. Mulroney) with beautiful manners and a degree in comparative literature from Brown. Both stars are highly appealing, despite a shaky script. After rowdy parties in London, everyone heads for the glorious English countryside for family-bonding activities. ''The Wedding Date'' proves that there is nothing inherently magical about a group of adults frolicking on a lawn with an old pop-music hit in the background. What charms it does have would be far more enjoyable if the movie weren't so in love with its own supposed cuteness.
GATES

Pop

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy rock and pop concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

JIMMY BOSCH AND FRIENDS, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street (212) 576-1155. Jimmy Bosch is a trombonist who savors the Latin jazz tradition of the descarga, a jam session everyone can dance to. Tomorrow night at 8; admission is $15 with a one drink minimum.
JON PARELES

RYAN CABRERA, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800. This singer gestures toward just about every genre that's available to a sensitive boy: emo, teen-pop, mainstream rock, folk. (Give him a few years and he may be making overtures to the indie-rock world, too.) Despite all that, he remains best known for being Ashlee Simpson's (on again? off again?) boyfriend, which should earn him no sympathy -- there are far worse ways to be known, after all. Tomorrow night and Sunday night at 8, with Aslyn and Kyle Riabko; tickets are $29.50 in advance, $30 at the door.
KELEFA SANNEH

CHEVELLE/HELMET, Spirit, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 268-9477. The muscular despair of grunge and the desolate, sinewy ballads of Tool live on in the grim, down-tuned, power-chorded dirges of Chevelle. Sharing the bill is the long-running New York band Helmet, a 1990's pioneer of sparse, deliberate, misanthropic hard rock. They're headlining the Snocore tour, which also includes the hard-rock bands Crossfade, Future Leaders of the World and Strata. Tonight at 6; tickets are $25.
PARELES

CONJUNTO CLASICO, Copacabana, 560 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-2672. The classic part of Conjunto Clasico is its lineup of trumpets, percussion and the sharp delicacy of a tres guitar, playing time-tested styles like the Cuban son and the Puerto Rican bomba. But there's nothing old-fashioned about the momentum it generates on the dance floor. It shares the bill with an all-star Dominican band that includes Victor Roque, Patrick Shannon, Kaky Vargas, Tonny Tun Tun, Raffy Matias and Henry Hierro and with Jovanny Polanco. Tomorrow night at 10; admission is $20.
PARELES

* EDAN, APT, 419 West 13th Street, West Village, (212)414-4245. This playful and verbose white rapper and DJ comes to APT for a DJ set celebrating his forthcoming album, ''Beauty and the Beat'' (Lewis). Expect a set full of old-fashioned, relentlessly propulsive hip-hop -- this is a guy who once compiled his favorite motormouths on a mixtape entitled, ''Fast Rap.'' Tonight after 10, with Chairman Mao; admission is $5.
SANNEH

* JACOB FRED JAZZ ODYSSEY, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503. This keyboards-bass-drums trio from Tulsa (including no one named Jacob Fred) has been playing the jam-band circuit with music that stretches from funk to the further reaches of abstraction. Tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $12.
PARELES

KID606, Rothko, 116 Suffolk Street, at Riving Street, Lower East Side, www.rothkonyc.com. The producer and DJ who calls himself Kid 606 made his name by making dance music punkier, adding noise and speed until his beats rushed by in a staticky blur. Oddly enough, this deafening but rather dull approach earned him an enthusiastic fan base, though he's recently been experimenting with other (perhaps more interesting) ideas. At this party, he is to spin a set of acid house -- a low-concept plan, and an appealing one. Tonight at 10, with the DFA-affiliated group Pixeltan (including Hisham Bharoocha, formerly of Black Dice) and Tommie Sunshine; tickets are $12 in advance, $15 at the door.
SANNEH

* JON LANGFORD, Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)539-8778 or (212)239-6200. When he's not singing with the Mekons, the pioneering punk band that also savors the directness of country and gospel, Jon Langford spins off side projects, bawling his way through songs full of history, surrealism and twang. Tonight at 9:30; tickets are $15.
PARELES

LONGWAVE, Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamburg, Brooklyn, (718)599-5103. Longwave's songs ponder self-destruction and transcendence in brooding songs with guitar lines that coil and climb. Tonight at 9; admission is $10.
PARELES

* MASCOTT/IDA/ANTIETAM, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7503. Kendall Jane Meade, the songwriter and singer behind Mascott, wraps vulnerability and longing in quietly radiant pop songs, with a calm, pensive voice that suggests a less cynical Aimee Mann. The three-member band Ida has just released a new album, ''Heart Like a River'' (Polyvinyl), that brings serene harmonies to songs about longtime love as well as romances that don't go so smoothly. Antietam, from Louisville, Ky., has been playing lean, forthright indie-rock since the 1980's. Sunday night at 8; admission is $10.
PARELES

JAMES McMURTRY, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700. James McMurtry packs a lot of story into his low-key songs: tales of loners and losers adrift in wide-open spaces. His voice is deadpan, but his characters survive grand struggles. Tomorrow night at 7:30; admission is $15.
PARELES

MURK, Crobar, 530 West 28th Street, near 10th Avenue, Chelsea, (212)629-9000. Murk is the Miami-based duo of Oscar G. and Ralph Falcon, who excel at producing and spinning thick, hazy dance tracks that ooze and evolve, occasionally making way for snippets of euphoric vocals. They've done some of their best work on remixes, and they recently turned Yoko Ono's ''Everyman Has a Woman Who Loves Him'' into a woozy, frenetic rhythm experiment, with Ms. Ono's vocals mainly submerged beneath synthesizer snarls and air-raid sirens. Tonight after 10; tickets are $15 in advance, expect to pay more at the door.
SANNEH

* ONEIDA, 150 Attorney Street at Stanton Street, (212)388-0077. Oneida, a New York band, leans hard on the keyboard-driven minimal rock of the early 1980's for songs that are joyfully relentless. It revs up frantic, obsessive patterns to carry thoughts about history, sex, drugs, rock and roll and a dystopian future, with a drive that's both obsessive and ecstatic. Tonight at 11, with the Apes at 10, Wilderness at 9 and New Beirut Holiday at 8; admission is $10.
PARELES

* OTEP, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212)219-3006. The new Otep album is ''House of Secrets'' (Capitol), an appealing mishmash of over-the-top goth imagery (is there any other kind?) and furious dynamic shifts. Otep Shamaya and her band spend more time holding back, letting listeners anticipate the inevitable arrival of yet another brutal noise-metal climax. As you might have guessed, this isn't a band that takes care to avoid the ridiculous -- for starters, the album art is in goofy 3-D, and to read it you'll need to use the two halves of the red-and-blue plastic case. But the best songs find intriguing (though never subtle) ways to evoke abuse, capturing victims and perpetrators at both their clammy quietest and their raging loudest. Tonight at 8, with American Head Charge, Candiria and Blood Simple; tickets are $17.
SANNEH

PEPPER, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place at 15th Street, Union Square, (212)777-6800 and the Stone Pony, 913 Ocean Avenue, Asbury Park, N.J., (732)502-0600. For those who miss the easygoing but mildly despairing reggae-rock of Sublime, along comes Pepper, a band from Hawaii that almost uncannily replicates both the sound and the attitude. At Irving Plaza tonight at 8; tickets are $18. At the Stone Pony tomorrow night at 7; tickets are $13.
PARELES

RACHEL'S, Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700 and Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamburg, Brooklyn, (718)599-5103. The songs of Rachel's, a band from Louisville, Ky., are as close to chamber music as to pop, looking inward with pensive songs and transparent compositions tinged with Minimalism; yes, a cello is involved. At Mercury Lounge tonight at 10:30, with Invert at 9:30 and Kevin Devine at 8:30; admission is $17. At Northsix tomorrow night at 9, with Invert and Chris Brokaw opening; admission is $17.
PARELES

* STEVE RILEY AND THE MAMOU PLAYBOYS, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street. (212)576-1155. The accordionist Steve Riley leads one of the best bands from the Louisiana bayous. It reaches back to some of the oldest Cajun tunes and can play them in traditional style, but it's not afraid of swamp-rock or a touch of country either. This event starts with dance lessons Sunday at 1:30, with the band at 2:30; admission is $22 with a one drink minimum.
PARELES

* SAMMY DEE, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503. Like many of Germany's most appealing D.J.'s, Sammy Dee loves to find out how much you can eliminate from dance music before it's no longer danceable. He's affiliated with the puckish electronic label Perlon, which has inspired a devoted American cult. (For an introduction, seek out the label's extraordinary 2001 double-CD compilation ''Superlongevity,'' which is full of hiccupping minimalist dance tracks and hazy scrambled sound effects.) He's also half of the duo Pantytec, known for building austere but off-kilter beats out of throwaway sounds: crackling static, echoing wrong notes, tiny vocal snippets. Tonight after 10, with Plexus, Shawn Rudiman, Jwan Allen, Lukas Owens, Adam Ratana and Unjust; admission is $5.
SANNEH

ROGER SANCHEZ, Crobar, 530 West 28th Street, near 10th Avenue, Chelsea, (212)629-9000. Mr. Sanchez, a local D.J. and producer, helped invent contemporary New York dance music, occasionally adding Latin rhythms to his clattering house-inspired beats. Ever since his 2002 award for a No Doubt remix, he's invariably called a ''Grammy-winning D.J.,'' although that title seems like faint praise. Last year he issued ''Release Yourself Vol. 3'' (Stealth), an appealing double-disc mix that starts with gauzy, disco-influenced mood music and ends with Carl Kennedy's buoyant and precise house track, ''The Love You Bring Me.'' Tomorrow night after 10; tickets are $20 in advance, more at the door.
SANNEH

SI SE, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, (212)576-1155. Si Se is a multiple-identity New York band, formed by a singer, Carol C, and a keyboardist-disc jockey-programmer, Cliff Cristafaro, plus a pair of viola players and rhythm section. Its songs touch down variously in downtempo Sade territory, pop-flamenco, reggae, trance, drum-and-bass or various Latin hybrids. Tonight at 10; admission is $15 with a one drink minimum.
PARELES

* TASTE OF CHAOS TOUR, Asbury Park Convention Hall, 1300 Ocean Avenue, Asbury Park, N.J., (732)775-3533. This smartly organized national tour stakes out some middle ground between the punk-rock Warped Tour and the heavy-metal festival Ozzfest, bringing together some of the loudest, screaming-est, metal-est bands associated with the plaintive punk subgenre known as emo. The headliners include My Chemical Romance, which specializes in grand, twitchy, half-sarcastic break-up songs; the metal band Killswitch Engage, which hides heart-on-sleeve lyrics behind a furious, propulsive racket; and the wildly entertaining Utah band the Used, known for hair-trigger love songs that keep devolving into -- what else? -- chaos. (Visit www.tasteofchaos.com for the full line-up.) Tomorrow afternoon at 5 and Sunday afternoon (without My Chemical Romance) at 3; tickets are $25.
SANNEH

BALLA TOUNKARA, Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-1155. Balla Tounkara, a griot from Mali, plays the kora and leads a band that mixes African, American and Caribbean styles. Tomorrow night at 10; admission is $20 with a one drink minimum.
PARELES

Cabaret

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy cabaret shows in Manhattan this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

RUTH BROWN, Le Jazz au Bar, 41 East 58th Street, (212)308-9455. This rhythm-and-blues legend has weathered one personal disaster after another, but misfortunes that might have silenced a less determined performer have only added dimension to Ms. Brown's already larger-than-life musical personality. Exhibiting a flamboyant showmanship that recalls her peer James Brown, she proudly presents herself as an indomitable member of royalty and stylistic descendant of the Queen of the Blues herself, Dinah Washington. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and 9:30, and last performance, Sunday night at 8. Cover: $50 tonight and tomorrow; $35 on Sunday; no minimum.
STEPHEN HOLDEN

* BLOSSOM DEARIE, Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133. To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. She remains the definitive interpreter, at once fey and tough, of the pop-jazz satirist Dave Frishberg, as astute and unforgiving a social critic as exists. The songs -- her own and other people's -- date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit, which have never gone stale. Tomorrow night at 7; Sunday night at 6:15. Cover: $25, with a $15 minimum; a $54.50 dinner-and-show package is available.
HOLDEN

UTE LEMPER, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, (212)570-7189. This imperious, Dietrichesque cabaret singer, who is performing with a pop quartet through next weekend, lends the entire nightclub enterprise a German Expressionist seriousness. If her latest show is entirely different from the program of original songs she performed last year at Le Jazz au Bar, its attitude is similar. Most of the material doesn't deal directly with politics, history and literature, like the sprawling topical broadsides of the earlier show. But she still invests it with a ferocity that infuses the art (and artifice) of cabaret with an unrelenting dramatic intensity. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:45 and 10:45. Cover: $65; $40 at the bar; no minimum.
HOLDEN

* 'SINGING ASTAIRE,' Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080. With Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines. The vocal trio that created the smart revue ''Our Sinatra''' has outdone itself with this lightly swinging 70-minute compendium of songs and lore associated with Fred Astaire. Suave and dry, and fleet on the piano, Mr. Comstock is a close stylistic relative of his idol, while Ms. Kole's pop-jazz singing has a Ginger Rogersesque edge. Mr. Gines fills in the difference with creamy vocal custard: witty, informative and fast-paced. Tomorrow and Sunday at 2:30 and 5:30 p.m. Cover: $30; $20 at the bar; $10 minimum.
HOLDEN

Jazz

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy jazz concerts in the New York metropolitan region this weekend. * denotes a highly recommended concert. Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

J.D. ALLEN TRIO PLAYS THE MUSIC OF BUTCH MORRIS, Louis 649, 649 East Ninth Street, East Village, (212)673-1190. J.D. Allen, a young tenor saxophonist who has played with Betty Carter, Cindy Blackman, Orrin Evans and others, is doing his part in Butch Morris's monthlong ''Black February'' series of nightly performances. He's playing in most of the large improvising ensembles conducted by Mr. Morris through the month, and he's also playing this weekly gig with his own trio, including Ameen Saleem on bass and Jeremy Clemons on drums. On the music stand will be Mr. Morris's own compositions going back to the 1970's, which graced a number of old David Murray albums. They're powerfully appealing melodies; it's been too long since they've been heard. Tomorrow night at 8 pm; cover, $1.
BEN RATLIFF

JOHN BENITEZ QUINTET, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212)242-1063. The Puerto Rican bassist John Benitez has become one of the most valuable parts of the new Latin-jazz scene in New York; he has recently been seen leading a number of different bands, and this is yet another. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 10:30; admission is $15.
RATLIFF

JIMMY COBB'S MOB, Smoke, 2751 Broadway at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212)864-6662. One of the original hard-bop drummers and the only surviving musician from Miles Davis's ''Kind of Blue'' sessions, Jimmy Cobb plays hard-edged, straight-ahead jazz with his own quintet, Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9, 11 and 12:30; cover charge is $25, $10 drink minimum.
RATLIFF

LOU DONALDSON QUARTET, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, midtown, (212)581-3080. A prince of blues and bop, Mr. Donaldson is a saxophonist who reminds you of the earthiness inside jazz. He is also a wild, funny character who always plays better than you expect on an average night. Sets are tonight and tomorrow at 9 and 11; cover charge is $30, $10 food or drink minimum at a table.
RATLIFF

* KENNY GARRETT QUARTET, Iridium, 1650 Broadway at 51st Street, midtown, (212) 582-2121. You don't get much more of a body blow from modern mainstream jazz; this band is a study in impact. The alto saxophonist Kenny Garrett is fast and harmonically astute, but he is also a player of real power. He has been changing the band over the last few years, adding new young players; the new edition includes the pianist Vernell Brown, the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Ronald Brunner. Sets through Sunday night are at 8 and 10, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $30, with a $10 food or drink minimum.
RATLIFF

* JIM HALL QUARTET, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Manhattan, (212)258-9595. There are few more self-effacing players at Jim Hall's level in jazz; he plays as if he could ditch it all tomorrow and never think about it again, but that is part of what makes him so important. His own compositions are sweet, oddball, sectional, played with extreme dynamics against lithe, swinging accompaniment, and his versions of standards can be subtly breathtaking, using light blues and country phrases. He is seriously open-minded, yet he does not razz popular music or pull anybody's leg, and his trail of accomplishments speaks for itself: his late-50's stint in Jimmy Giuffre's trio, his playing with Sonny Rollins and Art Farmer and a recent, late-blooming explosion as a composer and arranger. His most recent release is ''Magic Meeting,'' a live recording by his trio, but here he teams up with a quartet including Greg Osby, the alto saxophonist, as well as the bassist Steve Laspina and the drummer Kenny Wolleson. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $30, $10 minimum at a table, $5 at the bar.
RATLIFF

* LINCOLN CENTER JAZZ ORCHESTRA: 'FULL STEAM AHEAD,' Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, 5th Floor, Manhattan, (212)721-6500. Jazz at Lincoln Center's repertory programs --whether based on a composer or a theme -- are, to a certain way of thinking, their best. This weekend's shows selects songs about trains from the band-books of Ellington and Strayhorn, Mulligan, and the orchestra's leader, Wynton Marsalis, among others; expect a solid show, and a band that can bring colors out in familiar music that you can't hear on a recording. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tickets are $10 to $150, seating is extremely limited so reservations are strongly suggested.
RATLIFF

JUNIOR MANCE TRIO, Kitano hotel, 66 Park Avenue at 38th Street, Manhattan, (212)885-7000. Now in his mid-70's, Junior Mance is an excitable, physical pianist who throws himself into fast tempos and long up-the-keyboard rolls that aren't heard much outside Oscar Peterson. But he is also an earthy blues and bop player from Chicago; his resume includes time spent in the bands of Dinah Washington, Dizzy Gillespie and Cannonball Adderley. Sets are tonight at 9 and 10:45; cover charge is $15, plus a $10 minimum
RATLIFF

* MANHATTAN QUINTET, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232. A new and excellent-looking consortium for straight-ahead jazz, this group brings together musicians in their 30's and musicians in their 70's: the young tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander, the alto saxophonist Gary Bartz, the pianist Cyrus Chestnut, the bassist Goerge Mraz, and the drummer Ben Riley. Sets through Sunday night are at 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $30 and $25 on Sunday.
RATLIFF

* BUTCH MORRIS, Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, between Metropolitan Avenue and North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934; www.zebuloncafeconcert.com; Belt Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)563-0487; Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, East Village, (212)614-0505. Butch Morris has set up performances every night during February; he's calling it ''Black February,'' and this month officially celebrates 20 years of Mr. Morris's ''conductions,'' performances in which he conducts groups of improvisers, jazz or otherwise, with his own language of signals and baton movements. It's fun to watch, and he has a strong sense of humor and beauty. He's playing with different ensembles each night, and here's the weekend schedule: with Butchlandband at Zebulon, tonight at 10 and midnight; free; with the Butch Morris Emyoueseyesee Ensemble tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Belt Theater; admission is $10; with the New York Skyscraper Ensemble Sunday at 5 and 6 p.m., at Bowery Poetry Club; admission is $12. Check his Web site, www.conduction.us, for further information on these and other performances.
RATLIFF

* EDDIE PALMIERI, Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592. Mr. Palmieri is an excitable pianist, given to outre fantasias and pulverizing percussive lines. He has to rein in some of his more florid, mad-professor tendencies with the music of his old band, Conjunto la Perfecta, which is tight and hard and was originally created for the dancers at the old Palladium ballroom in the mid-1960's. He calls it La Perfecta II and it's mostly a repertory project, but the music sounds as alive as it did the day it was born. Sets through Sunday night are at 8 and 10:30; cover charge is $30, $5 minimum.
RATLIFF

JEREMY PELT QUINTET, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-4037. Jeremy Pelt is an impressive, forthright young trumpeter who has taken bits and pieces of style from Clifford Brown, Freddie Hubbard and others. But he frequently manages to get at the thing about jazz that transcends the matter of influences: though he might raid past players for their musical grammar, swing is personal, and Mr. Pelt wants to reveal its mystical properties, its feeling of floating. Sets through Sunday night are at 9 and 11, with a 12:30 set tonight and tomorrow; cover charge is $30.
RATLIFF

Classical

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy opera and classical music events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' Puccini's opera lies at the intersection of tragedy and soap opera, and nobody even cares if the sets in Giancarlo del Monaco's Metropolitan Opera production make logical sense as long as there are lots of cherry blossoms to applaud. The three principals in this weekend's performance -- the last Met ''Butterfly'' of the season - can all hit the notes, some of them rather loudly: both Marco Berti, the Pinkerton, and Vassily Gerello, the Sharpless, are power singers who offer volume if not always finesse. Kallen Esperian, as Cio-Cio-San, has more finesse, but sometimes less power. Musically, the whole thing is in the capable hands of the young conductor Emmanuel Villaume, who made his company debut with this production in September. Tomorrow night at 8, Metropolitan Opera, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Remaining tickets: $215.
ANNE MIDGETTE

'TURANDOT' The American soprano Andrea Gruber takes on the daunting title role of Puccini's ''Turandot'' in the Metropolitan Opera's revival of Franco Zeffirelli's gargantuan and glittering 1987 production, so popular it's critic-proof. Ms. Gruber has been singing some formidable repertory since returning to the fold of the Met in 2001, and her enormous voice shows signs of wear and stridency. Still, her singing is fearless and impassioned and through sheer force of will she excels in the role. The tenor Johan Botha is a heroic Calaf; the soprano Krassimira Stoyanova brings affecting vulnerability and throbbing richness to the role of Liu. Bertrand de Billy conducts a colorful and exciting account of Puccini's final opera. Tonight at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000. Remaining tickets: $200.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC Moored in the shadow of the Brooklyn Bridge, this intimate floating concert hall is a charming place to hear solo performances and chamber music while rocking gently on the waves of the East River. Tonight brings a recital by Sergey Schepkin, a Russian-born pianist known for his refined yet dynamic Bach playing. Mr. Schepkin's program highlights his Bach specialty, with the composer's Italian Concerto and his French Overture (BWV 831), but it also reaches far beyond it, with various works by Debussy and Scriabin, including the latter's Ninth Sonata. Tomorrow night and Sunday afternoon, the barge's artistic director and ubiquitous violinist Mark Peskanov is joined by Laura Usiskin (cello) and Katya Mihailova (piano) in works by Rachmaninoff, Prokofiev and Shostakovich. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 and Sunday afternoon at 4, Fulton Ferry Landing, under the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083. Tickets: $35; students, $25.
JEREMY EICHLER

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER The Chamber Music Society takes a modest plunge into multimedia on Sunday afternoon. Determined to show that the second Viennese school isn't all that divorced from the first, the Brentano String Quartet will interleaf movements of Mozart with movements of Webern. The spoken word will make its appearance as well, with readings of poetry by Mark Strand -- art and culture in every direction. At 5 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)875-5788. Tickets: $27.50 to $48.
BERNARD HOLLAND

COMPOSER PORTRAIT: NICOLAI ROSLAVETS The Miller Theater's series of composer portraits usually spotlights the living or recently dead; but in this case the beam turns toward the first half of the 20th century, on the work of an early modernist who developed his own system of ''synthetic chords,'' embraced the ideals of the Bolshevik revolution and ultimately found himself -- like many of his colleagues -- proscribed by Stalin for the kinds of innovations that had been praised a decade or so earlier. Performing the composer's three surviving quartets is the Pacifica Quartet, worth hearing in its own right; other performers are Elizabeth Farnum, a soprano, and Margaret Kampmeier, a pianist, in works including his fifth piano sonata and selected songs. Tonight at 8, Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-7799. Tickets: $20, $12 for students.
MIDGETTE

CUARTETO CASALS Young Spanish music is one theme at the Frick on Sunday: a Spanish quartet, formed in Madrid in 1997, will perform the second quartet by a Spanish composer, Juan Crisostomo Arriaga, who died when he was only 20. Arriaga's music has a wonderful light grace, and the Casals Quartet has recorded his three quartets for Harmonia Mundi. Another theme is the early 19th century: the program opens with Beethoven's ''Harp'' quartet from 1809 and closes with another quartet which, like Arriaga's, was written in 1824 by another composer who died young: Schubert's ''Rosamunde'' Quartet in A minor. Sunday afternoon at 5, Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212)288-0700. Free, but tickets are required.
MIDGETTE

'THE END OF THE MOON' Billed as a departure, Laurie Anderson's latest evening-length performance piece actually uses new technology to traverse familiar terrain. In a sing-song lilt that smooths off the rough edges of what she's saying, the artist talks about a wide range of topics, some of them touching on her recent stint as NASA's first-ever artist-in-residence. The grab-bag includes anecdotes, aphorisms (''Life is like bad art''), stretches of self-consciously poetic meditation and simple tunes on Ms. Anderson's electric viola, sampled into digital importance. Ms. Anderson celebrates the way that technology has shrunk, enabling her to fit all of her equipment into a couple of suitcases; unfortunately her content seems to have shrunk along with it. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 3, BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718)636-4100. Tickets: $20 to $50.
MIDGETTE

GUARNERI STRING QUARTET It seems to be raining Mendelssohn quartets these days, as new recordings have recently appeared by the Emerson, the Talich and the Leipzig String Quartets, with another on the way from the Pacifica Quartet. Adding to the spate of Mendelssohn, the Guarneri Quartet will perform the composer's youthful and enchanting Op. 12 this weekend in its series at the Metropolitan Museum. The program also includes Mozart's A major quartet (K. 464) and Dvorak's String Quintet (Op. 97), written during the idyllic summer this famously homesick composer spent among his countrymen in Spillville, Iowa. The Orion Quartet's violist, Steven Tenenbom, joins as a guest in the Dvorak. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)570-3949. Tickets: $45.
EICHLER

'THE HARTFORD COMMISSIONS' Two concerts this weekend celebrate the output in recent years by composers and musicians either living in or with professional connections to Hartford. The programs will introduce works by Dan Roman, Robert Carl James Sellars, Peter Alexander, Ken Steen, John McDonald and others. Violinist Katie Landsdale, bassist Robert Black and Mr. McDonald, a pianist as well as a composer, have organized the programs and will be among the performers. The concerts promise to present a group portrait of new music in Hartford. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212)501-3330. Tickets: $10.
TOMMASINI

LOCRIAN CHAMBER PLAYERS This ensemble never performs works that are more than 10 years old, which means that it must constantly refresh its repertory as old favorites fall out of bounds. Its program tonight includes ''Dig Deep,'' a string quartet by Julia Wolfe; the ''Trio Barbaro e Malinconico,'' for clarinet, violin and piano, by Paul Chihara; a set of etudes for piano by Julian Anderson; ''Crash,'' a string trio, by Stefan Weisman, and ''3,2,1'' by David Macdonald. Tonight at Riverside Church, 91 Claremont Avenue, at 120th Street, Morningside Heights, (718)458-4864. Free.
ALLAN KOZINN

MUSICIANS FROM MARLBORO During the summer, young musicians convene at the Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont to study and perform with established soloists and chamber players, but the work doesn't end there. Throughout the season, ensembles representing the festival's best undertake tours, and since 1970 these groups have had an annual series at the Metropolitan Museum. Obviously, the chemistry will vary, but these groups usually do superb work, and tonight the Marlboro emissaries are offering an attractive program that includes Mozart's String Quintets in B flat (K. 174) and G minor (K. 516), as well as Hindemith's ''Melancholie,'' a vocal work with quartet accompaniment. The musicians are Frank Huang and Tai Murray, violinists; Eric Nowlin and Samuel Rhodes, violists, Efe Baltacigil, cellist, and Hyunah Yu, soprano. Tonight at 8, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)570-3949. Tickets: $35.
KOZINN

* MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE The chamber concerts by the musicians of the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra are programmatically adventurous and consistently well-played. On Sunday, the ensemble offers a program that mixes old and new. Schumann's Three Romances for Oboe and Piano (Op. 94) is offset by Gyorgy Kurtag's ''Hommage a R. Sch.'' for clarinet, viola and piano; Schubert's Quartettsatz in C minor (D. 703) is to precede John Harbison's ''November 19, 1828'' -- the title refers to the date of Schubert's death -- and the Berg Chamber Concerto for Piano, Violin and 13 Winds will be performed alongside Gyorgy Ligeti's Chamber Concerto for 13 Instruments. Sunday at 5 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $48 to $64.
KOZINN

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Many musiclovers will be drawn to this weekend's New York Philharmonic concerts for the chance to hear Lorin Maazel conduct two enduringly popular works: Dukas's ''Sorcerer's Apprentice'' and Rimsky-Korsakov's ''Scheherazade.'' The newsiest item on the program, though, is the Australian composer Ross Edwards's Oboe Concerto, in its American premiere. Mr. Maazel, who conducted its 2002 world premiere in Sydney, describes the work as a choreographic concerto. The soloist, the Australian oboist Diana Doherty, emerges from the wings in the dark, playing disembodied oboe lines. Gradually, as the lights go on, you see her prowl about the stage playing with various sub-groups of instruments. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500. Tickets: $25 to $90.
TOMMASINI

QI SHU FANG BEIJING OPERA COMPANY After a spate of activity in the wake of the Lincoln Center Festival's landmark production of ''The Peony Pavilion'' in 1999, Chinese opera has again become scarce in New York. This company of more than 50 singers, dancers, acrobats and instrumentalists, which I saw last in a fascinating mix of ancient and recent examples, returns with a staging of a classic, ''The Monkey King Wreaks Havoc in Heaven,'' and other works. With Qi Shu Fang sure to demonstrate her own acrobatic virtuosity, it promises to be an entertaining evening. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212)992-8484. Tickets: $30 and $35; $15 for students.
JAMES R. OESTREICH

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS WIND ENSEMBLE Concert bands are not something the classical music world pays much heed, but this one, directed by Jerry Junkin, grabbed attention last year with a wonderful CD from Reference Recordings, ''Bells for Stokowski.'' There was fun, with dances from Tylman Susato's collection ''Danserye'' of 1551 in wildly anachronistic arrangements. But there was also serious business, with premiere recordings of works by Michael Daugherty and David Del Tredici. The program here, conducted by Mr. Junkin and Robert Carnochan, offers the New York premiere of John Corigliano's ''Circus Maximus'' (Symphony No. 3) and works by Handel, Copland and Donald Grantham. This spirited group should bring it all vividly to life. Sunday at 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800. Tickets: $20 to $40.
OESTREICH

Dance

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy dance events this weekend in the New York metropolitan region. * denotes a highly recommended event. Full reviews of recent dance performances: nytimes.com/dance.

'BUTTER MELTS AWAY MY LETTERS' Choreographed by Stephanie Rafferty and conceived and directed by Gian Marco Lo forte, this theater-dance piece visits a group of young runaways to New York City who cannot quite shrug off the past. Jack Anderson described it as ''oddly hypnotic'' in a recent review in The New York Times. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2:30 and 8 p.m. La MaMa E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street west of Second Avenue, Manhattan, (212)475-7710. Tickets: $15; TDF vouchers accepted.
JENNIFER DUNNING

CONDORS An all-male Japanese troupe whose irrepressibly eccentric productions have been compared with Monty Python offers Ryohei Kondo's ''Mars: Conquest of the Galaxy II,'' a giddy fusion of slapstick comedy, dance and video. Tonight at 7:30, Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212)752-3015. Tickets: $30.
JACK ANDERSON

MICHAEL FLATLEY'S 'LORD OF THE DANCE' Love it or hate it, ''Shilelegh on the Roof,'' as it is irreverently known to some, is said to be the world's highest grossing dance show. Take that, Riverdance. Sadly, the superb Mr. Flatley is no longer performing, but this is still his show. Sunday at 7 p.m., Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C.W. Post Campus, Long Island University, Route 25A, Brookville, L.I., (516) 299-3100. Tickets: $39, $51 and $65.
DUNNING

INNERLANDSCAPES DANCE THEATER This choreographic collective devoted to new works by a variety of choreographers presents dances by Nomi Bachar, Kathryn Sullivan, Natasa Trifan and Valerie Norman. Tonight at 9, tomorrow and Sunday at 8 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, West Village, (212)726-0660. Tickets: $20.
ANDERSON

ISRAEL CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATER A company with a forceful style that was originally known as the Kibbutz Contemporary Dance Company offers the New York premiere of Irit Batzri's ''Screensaver,'' a hybrid of movement, stagecraft and video technology that explores humanity's public and private realms. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800. Tickets: $34.
ANDERSON

RALPH LEMON In ''Come home Charley Patton,'' which concludes his ''Geography Trilogy,'' Mr. Lemon examines his own cultural heritage through the refracting prism of a 1920's lynching in Duluth, in his home state of Minnesota. In a review in The New York Times, Anna Kisselgoff wrote that the theater-dance piece is as much about memory as about a little-known lynching. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street, Newark, (888)466-5722. Tickets: $32.
DUNNING

NEW YORK CITY BALLET In this last weekend of the company's winter season, highlights include Jerome Robbins's luminous ''Glass Pieces'' (tonight and both performances tomorrow) and Christopher Wheeldon's ''Shambards'' (tomorrow afternoon). The programs also include George Balanchine's ''Symphony in Three Movements'' (tonight and tomorrow night); Robbins' ''Afternoon of a Faun'' (tonight); Peter Martins's ''Eros Piano'' (tonight); ''Chichesters Psalms'' (tomorrow night and Sunday); Balanchine's ''Apollo'' (tomorrow afternoon), and Robbins's ''Fanfare,'' Mr. Wheeldon's ''Liturgy'' and Balanchine's ''Stars and Stripes'' (Sunday). Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)870-5570 or www.nycballet.com. Tickets: $30 to $83.
DUNNING

QI-SHU FANG PEKING OPERA COMPANY Presented by the World Music Institute, the troupe will perform ''The Flaming Phoenix'' (tonight); ''The Monkey King Wreaks Havoc in Heaven'' (tonight and tomorrow), and ''Fighting in the Dark'' and an excerpt from ''The Women Generals of the Yang Family'' (tomorrow). Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts at New York University, 566 LaGuardia Place at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212)545-7536. Tickets: $30 and $35; $15 for students.
DUNNING

JUDITH SANCHEZ RUIZ Ms. Sanchez Ruiz has a rich performing history that includes gigs with Danza Abierta in her native Cuba, and Mal Pelo in Spain, Manhattan dance-downtowners including DD Dorvillier, and Henry Threadgill and other New York jazz musicians. Her latest ''Citizens or Individuals,'' set to music by Dafnis Prieto with set designs by Jonathan Cramer, examines the delicate balance between private and public self and the accommodations that must often be made to belong to a community. Tonight and tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212)674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org. Tickets: $15; TDF vouchers accepted. Also at Danspace this weekend, Eleanor Dubinsky and Christine Suarez will present works in progress as part of the theater's free DraftWork series. Tomorrow at 3 p.m.
DUNNING

THREAD DANCE THEATER Amy Beth Schneider's all-female company explores partnership, both physical and metaphorical, here in her new ''Six-Story,'' a suite of dances set in a metaphorical female dwelling. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., University Settlement House, 184 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (718)633-5678. Tickets: $15.
DUNNING

TRINITY IRISH DANCE COMPANY A Chicago-based group that both honors traditional Irish dance forms and uses them as the bases for modern abstractions and New Age conceptions joins forces with the musical ensemble Different Drums of Ireland. Sunday at 2 p.m., Lehman Concert Hall, Lehman College, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard, the Bronx, (718)960-8833. Tickets: $15 and $25.
ANDERSON

* CATHY WEIS PROJECTS Ms. Weis's nutty imagination and humor combine, in her dance and video pieces, to create art that has been described as rough-edged magic. High technology is not her bag. Instead, her work has a wonderfully home-made look. Ms. Weis's new ''Electric Haiku: Calm as Custard'' is a more meditative and less raucous suite of short segments than its predecessor, the 2002 ''Electric Haiku.'' There are some dazzling video-dance images and belly-laugh humor, but the heart of ''Calm as Custard'' is a conversation of sorts with a vibrant and thoughtful artist. The cast also includes downtown performance and dance stars Scott Heron, Diane Madden and Jennifer Miller. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Manhattan, (212)924-0077 or www.dtw.org . Tickets: $25.
DUNNING

92 ON 42: ZVI DANCE Presented by the 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Center as part of its winter series at the Duke, the Israeli-born choreographer Zvi Gotheiner, known as a gifted teacher and the creator of darkish dances that explore the human heart, will present his new ''Territories,'' a dance-theater piece that addresses space and its division. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m., the Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. Tickets: $20.
DUNNING

Art

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy art, design and photography shows at New York museums and galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show. Full reviews of recent shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

'CONTEMPORARY VOICES: WORKS FROM THE UBS ART COLLECTION.' Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, through April 25. What's wrong with this picture? The Museum of Modern Art, the most visionary museum of the 20th century, is inaugurating the temporary-exhibition galleries in its 21st-century home with an exhibition of gifts from a corporate collection. It is an ambitious, carefully selected corporate collection, but that doesn't keep the ensemble from feeling corporate, monotonous and by the book. The 40 (of 64) works given or promised to the Modern are nearly all by white male artists, and they are all already represented in the collection. There's nothing wrong with the individual works by artists like Philip Guston, Jasper Johns and Vija Celmins that won't be cured by integrating them into the Modern's collection, but the ensemble effect is dispiriting. With an emphasis on a narrow swath of the 1980's mainstream, the show feels like an excessively edited letter in a bottle from an art world that no longer exists. Hours: Saturdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; closed Tuesdays. Admission: $20; $16 for 65+; $12 for students; children 16 and under and accompanied by an adult, free. Free on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m.
ROBERTA SMITH

'RUTH DUCKWORTH, MODERNIST SCULPTOR,' Museum of Arts and Design, 40 West 53rd Street, (212)956-3535, through April 3. A sculptor whose basic medium is clay, Ms. Duckworth makes everything from tiny, delicate vessels to monumental outdoor sculptures. Though her work fits in -- but not too neatly -- with the modernist tradition, her eye has roamed everywhere, resulting in a bewildering variety of styles and influences, from Brancusi to a beef bone found in her soup. Sometimes the influences combine awkwardly, making her work seem a little strained and quirky, but often enough her venturesomeness pays off, producing images of eloquence and power. Hours: Daily 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Thursdays: 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $6 for 65+ and students. Thursdays from 6 to 8 p.m. is pay what you wish.
GRACE GLUECK

'FIRST SEEN: PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE WORLD'S PEOPLES, 1840-1880,' Dahesh Museum of Art, 580 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212)759-0606, through May 1. Mothers nursing babies, vignettes of the Crimean War, high life under the British Raj, exploited child workers, holy men, Chinese women with bound feet, Kirghiz tribesmen, American Indians and on and on, not to mention a snappy picture of the novelist George Sand in her accustomed male drag, wielding a cigarette. These are some of the 250 photographs taken all over the world by early lensmen. The idea of the show, chosen from the vast archives of the Wilson Center for Photography in London, was to focus on ''first'' glimpses of people rather than the more usual views of landscapes, mountains or relics that were easier subjects for the ponderous pioneer camera to handle. The profusion of images may cause the viewer's mind to boggle, but it gives a good idea of the worldwide sweep of the early camera's lens. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $9; $4 for 65+, students and educators.
GLUECK

* 'FROM FILIPPO LIPPI TO PIERO DELLA FRANCESCA: FRA CARNEVALE AND THE MAKING OF A RENAISSANCE MASTER,' Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710, through May 1. The Italian Renaissance artist-priest known as Fra Carnevale was an art-world somebody in his day but a shadowy figure to modern historians, known primarily for two extraordinary paintings of tiny figures in fantastic architectural settings. Both paintings are in this intricate think-piece of a show that tries to reconstruct his career by bringing his known paintings together. At the same time, it uses his work, along with that of major figures like Filippo Lippi and Piero della Francesca, to explore larger ideas about self-created professional identity in a cultural epoch far more diverse than it is sometimes thought to have been. Hours: Sundays, Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $15; 65+, $10; students, $7.
HOLLAND COTTER

'IMAGES OF DON QUIXOTE: THE ART OF ILLUSTRATION AND PRINTMAKING,' the Hispanic Society of America, 613 West 155th Street, Washington Heights, (212)926-2234, through March 5. A few years back, a poll of international writers voted ''Don Quixote'' the greatest book of all time. This year Cervantes's novel is four centuries old, and the Hispanic Society of America is celebrating the occasion with this exhibition of illustrations of the story printed from the 17th through 20th centuries. Despite its small size, the show demonstrates how attitudes toward the book changed in different eras, from raucous comedy to Romantic tragedy. And in designs by artists like John Vanderbank, Fragonard and Gustave Dore, there are fascinating images and ideas to consider. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Free.
COTTER

Galleries: Uptown

RICHARD HICKAM: 'BEYOND THE SURFACE,' Allan Stone Gallery, 113 East 90th Street, (212)987-4997, through March 26. The faces in this group of quirky Expressionist portraits slip and slide into grotesque masks under the artist's loose brushstrokes, rich textures and bold manipulations of color. But they hint at universals, like ''The Teacher,'' a particularly haunting welter of features that includes a strained toothy smile under a beaky nose, an unkempt thatch of straight, straw-colored hair and a dark scraggle of beard. The dyspeptic-looking ''Night Reader,'' with a yellowish head the shape of an Idaho potato held at a slight angle, a twisted gash of mouth and a pair of glasses that sit crookedly on the suggestion of a nose, evokes an aged and bedeviled aesthete (as well as the Wizard of Oz). At their peak, his faces seem to bare the souls of their wearers.
GLUECK

ALEKSANDRA MIR: 'NEW DESIGNS,' Roth Gallery, East 70th Street, (212)717-9067, through March 5. The ever-resourceful Aleksandra Mir designs her own antiwar pro-abortion campaign with posters proclaiming ''Be Gentle in Fallujah'' and ''Keep Abortion Legal,'' as well as small, slogan-bearing goody-bag items including a Swiss Army knife, dental floss and a scarf. But she takes a more ambivalent viewpoint with a series of drinking glasses printed with the faces of newborns that are identified as the reincarnations of various recently deceased celebrities. Mass culture has long borrowed the strategies of Conceptual Art; it is always nice to see artists borrow back.
SMITH

JOHN WALKER: 'COLLAGE,' Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212)794-0550, through March 19. This English artist who now lives in Maine produced the six powerfully imposing Cubist collages featured here while living and teaching in New York in the mid-70's. Each measures 10 by 8 feet and has leathery surfaces of painted, irregularly cut-up pieces of canvas. Today they seem old fashioned, even a little academic. Still, the rumbling, viscerally physical energy they exude remains exciting.
KEN JOHNSON

Galleries: 57th Street

PAT ADAMS: 'PAINTINGS 1954 - 2004,' Zabriskie, 41 East 57th Street, (212)752-1223, through March 5. Celebrating the 50th anniversary of her first solo show at this gallery, Ms. Adams's exhibition of small paintings takes an abbreviated look back over her long and distinguished career. Works from the last four decades typically feature richly textured fields punctuated by sharply defined abstract elements that seem to cavort like Platonic archetypes through the space of a universal collective consciousness.
JOHNSON

'FACE TO FACE: DAN MASKS FROM THE IVORY COAST AND AQUATINTS BY HENRI MATISSE,' Pace Primitive/Pace Master Prints, 32 East 57th Street, (212)421-3237, through March 19. This first collaboration between the Primitive and the Print departments of this wide-ranging gallery, this show brings together Matisse's ultrasimplified female faces in aquatints from the 1940's and the refined, stylized late 19th-century and early 20th-century face masks from the Dan people of the Ivory Coast. While it can't be said that Matisse's aquatints here were directly influenced by them, his spare faces, drawn with a hand so practiced it could conjure up an image with a few strokes, seem to owe something to the often subtle stylizations of African art. Of all African masks, those by the Dan, with their minimal but expressively carved features and smooth modulation of facial planes, seem to go particularly well with his less-is-more renderings.
GLUECK

LOREN MADSEN: 'GODS AND DEMONS: AN INSTALLATION,' McKee, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212)688-5951, through March 5. Mr. Madsen is a sculptor who has invented ingenious ways to combine formalist abstraction and socially motivated conceptualism. A biomorphic wooden sculpture, for example, is a kind of three-dimensional chart illustrating the statistical ages at which people are killed by handguns. The main installation, an oblique commentary on the global impact of organized religions, consists of strings of glass beads hung from the ceiling, with beads of different colors representing quantities of key religious words inventoried in a search of three million book titles.
JOHNSON

Galleries: SoHo

ELLSWORTH KELLY: 'SMALL PAINTINGS, 1955 - 63,' Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, (212) 966-5154, through April 23. This little gem of an exhibition presents seven small paintings from a formative period in the career of one of our most celebrated abstractionists. Mr. Kelly's subtly witty, formally acute play with simple shapes, the picture plane and primary colors gives these works a punchy vitality the decades have done little to diminish.
JOHNSON

Galleries: Chelsea

SANTE D'ORAZIO: 'PAM: AMERICAN ICON,' Stellan Holm, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, through March 5. Pamela Anderson -- yes, that Pamela Anderson -- in all her pneumatic, mostly unclothed glory is the subject of large and surrealistically vivid photographs that were originally commissioned but not published by Playboy magazine. Students: discuss criteria for judging the value -- aesthetic and otherwise -- of these artworks.
JOHNSON

Last Chance

'JOSEF AND ANNI ALBERS: DESIGNS FOR LIVING,' Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street, (212)849-8400, closing on Sunday. This enlightening, quietly excellent show is the first to juxtapose the design efforts -- his furniture, her textiles -- of two remarkable artists who happened to be married to each other. Instead of Josef's paintings of glowing nesting squares, which presage Minimalism, we get his 1927 nesting tables with the same meticulous sense of color, proportion and geometry that he would later apply to canvas. Anni brought a similarly intelligent structure to fabrics and tapestries that make every thread, texture and color count, at once exposing and exalting her medium's basic grid. She was the Sol LeWitt of weaving. Hours: Tuesdays to Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $7; students and 62+, $5.
SMITH

GUY BEN-NER: 'WILD BOY,' Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)727-3323, through tomorrow. Two short films by Israel's representative to the 2005 Venice Biennale charmingly spoof quasi-scientific documentary filmmaking. Made entirely at home, "Wild Boy" is about a feral child (played by the artist's young son) who is captured, cleaned-up and trained by a researcher played by Mr. Ben-Ner. Another film that follows the fortunes of a family of ostriches played by the artist and his family in ridiculous costumes has a perfect anthropomorphizing voice-over.
JOHNSON

CECILY BROWN, Gagosian, 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212)741-1111, closing tomorrow. Because it was a blend of Abstract Expressionist style and pornographic imagery that first drew the limelight to Ms. Brown, sensational things are expected of her. She disappoints by being merely good, as she is in her new work. With their all-over fields of splintery and squiggly gestures in nicely coordinated colors, her paintings based on landscape motifs are visually engaging, but they want some more adventurous approaches to form and imagery.
JOHNSON

JOHN LURIE, Roebling Hall, 606 West 26th Street, Chelsea (212)929-8180, closing tomorrow. The stream-of-consciousness notational ink drawings and radiant gouaches of the musician John Lurie have precedents in the work of Jean-Michel Basquiat and William Wegman's early Conceptual drawings, but they have their own sense of wiry line and texture, wordplay, sexual bluntness and radiant color.
SMITH

'PAPER,' Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-3335, closing tomorrow. Highlights of this lively exhibition of things made on or of paper by more than 20 artists include a huge woodblock print by Mel Kendrick; Magic Realist ball point drawings of odd wooden structures by Billy Malone; John Pilson's video sequence of different hands drawing pigs; and Juliana Ellman's funny small painting of inflatable furniture going over a waterfall.
JOHNSON

JOEL SHAPIRO, Cook Fine Art, 1063 Madison Avenue, near 81st Street, (212)737-3550, closing today. This is a fine, economical retrospective of the post-Minimalist sculptor's career. There are not any of the early diminutive houses but there is a small, toylike bronze horse from 1973-4 that may surprise viewers familiar with Mr. Shapiro's oeuvre. Also on hand are dense, blocky abstract sculptures and elegant, sumptuous geometric drawings.
JOHNSON

AARON SPANGLER, Zach Feuer, 530 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212)989-7700, closing tomorrow. You don't see much wood carving in elite Chelsea galleries, which makes it exciting to discover Mr. Spangler's large, intricate reliefs carved from three-inch slabs of maple and painted black. The Brooklyn-based sculptor uses his extraordinary technique to elaborate profusely detailed, darkly comic visions of rural, post-apocalyptic ruin. Wrecked buildings, crashed cars and trucks and abandoned appliances litter densely forested landscapes, and a magical tension emerges between the raw wood and the epic illusionism.
JOHNSON

HENRY TAYLOR, Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-4949, closing tomorrow. Combining aspects of outsider art, quasi-academic figuration and early Pop Art, with found objects and plenty of rough-edged collage thrown in for good measure, the work of this Los Angeles painter seems a bit old-fashioned and all-over the place. But the work has a concentrated focus -- a very personal view of black life in L.A. -- buttressed by an appealing density and a promising fearlessness.
SMITH


GRAPHIC: Photos: JAZZ, MOVIES AND ART -- The improvising conductor Butch Morris, top left, continues his monthlong ''Black February'' series of nightly performances this weekend. Page 24. Keanu Reeves, below left, plays a kind of freelance border guard who travels between our world and the one below in Francis Lawrence's new film, ''Constantine.'' Page 23. Richard Hickam's painting ''Night Reader'' is on view at the Allan Stone Gallery. Page 25. (Photos by Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times [Butch Morris]
David James/Warner Brother Pictures [''Constantine'']
 Allan Stone Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (70%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); THEATER (59%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



546 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Social Security and the Generations

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Never mind that there is no consensus among economists about whether there is a ''problem'' with Social Security or that President Bush's solution would further deepen the deficit. Future generations will suffer, he tells us, if we do not restructure Social Security now. Nonsense. 
 What is actually happening is this: George W. Bush is the leader of an increasingly doctrinaire Republican Party that believes that private enterprise solves all domestic problems. Social Security contradicts that premise because it provides assured benefits based on a schedule of taxation proportionate to work and earned income. 
 In other words, it is predictable and fair. That is why it has worked for 70 years. 
 But it is not part of the Republican creed of ''ownership.'' So it must be ''reformed.'' Its revenues must be handed over gradually but inexorably to the equities market, which will benefit many of the same Americans who enjoyed the biggest tax paybacks of 2001. 
 If we fall for that one, we'll fall for just about anything the Bush government sends our way. 

Robert Bunselmeyer
Brunswick, Me., Feb. 23, 2005


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



547 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Washington Memo; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Economic Posts Unfilled Despite Big Pushes Ahead

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Even as President Bush pursues a sweeping agenda to overhaul Social Security and the tax code, his economic team is thinner now than at any time since he took office.
 About one-third of the senior policy positions at the Treasury Department, which is central in both the tax and Social Security battles, are empty or about to be.
 The office of the United States trade representative, which is in the midst of global and regional trade negotiations, is being led by a caretaker, and Mr. Bush has yet to nominate a permanent trade representative. 
 And though Mr. Bush announced Wednesday that Harvey S. Rosen would be chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Mr. Rosen is expected to return to his teaching post at Princeton by summer's end.
 Administration officials said they were pushing to fill the top economic jobs quickly, and people close to the administration said they were close to filling at least one major spot at the Treasury Department.
 But at least some of Mr. Bush's supporters worry that the sluggishness in making nominations will close what they see as a narrow window of opportunity to push major initiatives through Congress.
 ''The first 12 months are really the most crucial,'' said Stephen Moore, president of the Free Enterprise Fund, a conservative advocacy group that is campaigning for Mr. Bush's plan to partly privatize Social Security. 
 People close to the administration said that several potential candidates had said they were not interested in leading the tax policy team at the Treasury Department.
 In some cases, the reasons were personal and financial. But one former White House official speculated that some people may have been discouraged by perceptions that the department had less power under Mr. Bush than under other presidents.
 Whatever the reason, the gaps in Mr. Bush's lineup affect an array of major domestic and international economic initiatives.
 The Treasury Department, led by John W. Snow, is perhaps the agency under greatest pressure. It lacks a deputy secretary, and it lacks assistant secretaries in charge of tax policy and domestic finance.
 Administration officials expect two other officials in critical roles to resign soon: John B. Taylor, the under secretary for international affairs, and John M. Duncan, the assistant secretary for Congressional relations.
 Administration officials are expected to nominate Mark Weinberger, the vice chairman for tax services at Ernst & Young Americas and the former assistant treasury secretary for tax policy, as deputy Treasury secretary. 
 But that announcement, if it happens, could be weeks away. 
 ''These are critical positions and we continue to move forward with the selection process,'' said Erin Healy, a White House spokeswoman.
 Meanwhile, people close to the administration said it had yet to recruit a chief of tax policy, who would be crucial in developing and defending a plan to overhaul the tax code.
 At least one prominent tax expert, Michael Graetz of Yale, has turned down the post, two people familiar with the discussions said. 
 A former White House official said the administration was also rebuffed when it put out feelers to two well-known tax experts -- Mark Prater, counsel to the Senate Finance Committee, and Lindy L. Paull, a former director of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.
 Administration officials said much of the delay simply reflected the need to conduct thorough background checks. 
 Numerous officials said they were determined to avoid ''another Kerik'' situation, a reference to Bernard B. Kerik, who withdrew his nomination to lead the Department of Homeland Security after saying that he had failed to pay employment taxes for a nanny.
 But some Republicans said some candidates may have been discouraged by a sense that the Treasury Department had far less power to set policy than did Karl Rove, who was recently named Mr. Bush's deputy chief of staff for policy.
 ''I think there's a concern on the part of some people that they wouldn't be able to do anything,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, adding that Mr. Snow had served as more of a salesman for Mr. Bush's policies than as a developer of those policies.
 Pressures are mounting just as quickly on the international trade front. The White House announced last week that Peter F. Allgeier would be the acting United States trade representative, now that Robert B. Zoellick has left to become the deputy secretary of state. Mr. Allgeier, a career trade diplomat, is highly regarded. But analysts say he does not have influence that comes from close ties to Mr. Bush.
 ''Trade was completely absent from the president's State of the Union address,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, the president of the nonpartisan Institute for International Economics, who has been critical of the administration's handling of the deficit. ''And trade has not been raised as one of the priority items in the president's agenda.''
 Priority or not, the administration faces pressure to push ahead with global trade talks intended to reduce farm subsidies around the world. 
 It also faces growing protectionist sentiment in Congress as a result of the nation's $600 billion trade deficit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%) United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Edmund L Andrews; Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



548 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Cabinet Approved, With Few Arafat Allies

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
The Palestinian parliament overwhelmingly approved a new cabinet on Thursday, composed mainly of professionals rather than politicians, ending days of crisis and marking a break with the Yasir Arafat era.
 All but 7 of the 24 cabinet members were newcomers, many of them qualified specialists with doctorates in fields ranging from education to electrical engineering and economics. 
 Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei and the deputy prime minister, Nabil Shaath, formerly the foreign minister, were among the few who survived a radical pruning of Arafat loyalists that strengthened the reform-minded President Mahmoud Abbas. Mr. Abbas has pledged to make Palestinian public life more open and effective, reinforcing efforts to secure peace with Israel. 
 ''The majority are new,'' Mr. Shaath told reporters as newly-endorsed ministers, legislators and journalists milled around the courtyard of the parliament, located in a former school here. ''Rejuvenation is the name of the game.'' Saeb Erakat, another Arafat associate who withdrew from the cabinet earlier this week, said: ''What you witnessed is the real democracy of the Palestinian people.''
 The outcome reflected a setback for Mr. Qurei, who had started the week by proposing a cabinet list drawn predominantly from the old guard that flourished under Mr. Arafat and was widely seen as corrupt and nepotistic. Legislators protested vehemently, forcing Mr. Qurei during three days of wrangling to include new faces.
 Hanan Ashrawi, a prominent legislator, told reporters the creation of the new cabinet was ''a turning point'' in the creation of Palestinian governments ''going beyond political patronage.''
 Legislators approved the new cabinet 54 to 10 with four abstentions, voting by a show of hands in a curtained chamber dominated by a portrait of Mr. Arafat. He died last November after overseeing Palestinian politics for decades. 
 The 84-member legislature is controlled by the Fatah movement of which both Mr. Qurei and Mr. Abbas are veteran leaders. Some legislators did not attend Thursday's vote.
 Mr. Abbas, elected last month to replace Mr. Arafat as president of the Palestinian Authority, has been under pressure from Palestinians, Americans and Israelis to institute changes, particularly in reorganizing the overlapping security services once controlled by Mr. Arafat.
 The approval of the new cabinet was seen by some Israelis as what Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom called ''an important step forward, a positive step towards a better future.''
 ''But it's only a first step,'' Mr. Shalom added.
 ''What we would like to see is a new policy of fighting against the extremists and encouraging the moderates to move toward peace and quiet with Israel,'' Mr. Shalom said.
 The new cabinet includes some prominent figures such as Nasser Yousef, a former general associated with a crackdown on Islamic militants in the 1990's, and Muhammad Dahlan, a former security chief in Gaza. Both are seen as close to President Abbas.
 Mr. Yousef will be the interior minister, with responsibility for the security forces, while Mr. Dahlan will be the civil affairs minister.
 Israel is insistent that the new government rein in Islamic militants and provide security against suicide bombings and other attacks.
 Mr. Yousef told reporters a ''serious and sincere'' effort would be made to provide security for Palestinians and impose law and order. He said security for Israelis and Palestinians ''complement each other.''
 In Thursday's lineup, Nasser al-Kidwa, a former Palestinian representative at the United Nations, became foreign minister and Salam Fayyad remained as finance minister -- a position he has held since 2002 and which he is credited with using to clean up corrupt Palestinian finances.
 Many others were technocrats with no mainstream political experience, such as Walid Abed Rabbo, the new agriculture minister.
 Asked whether the new government would secure popular backing, he said: ''I am sure we will get the support we want once we offer the right and appropriate agenda.''
 Palestinian legislators face elections next July for the first time in nine years. Mr. Shaath, replaced as foreign minister by Mr. Kidwa, described the new cabinet as a ''transitional government'' that was likely to be replaced after the parliamentary vote.
 For all the euphoria there were some dissenting voices. Ziad Abu Ein, a supporter of the jailed Palestinian leader Marwan Barghouti, said the new cabinet derived no credentials from the Palestinian resistance to Israeli occupation and was therefore unlikely to win popular support.
 ''We need leaders who can bring people from the street to support the cabinet,'' he said.
 The new cabinet's performance is likely to influence next July's elections and some Palestinians, in random interviews here, indicated that they were prepared to offer the cabinet a degree of support.
 ''They are from among us,'' said Hayat Nabali, a 40-year-old widow and mother of five. ''They can serve the people better. People are looking for something new.''
 Equally, though, many people said they were wanted specific, practical measures from the new government, such as the creation of jobs and removal of Israeli roadblocks that hamper travel in many parts of the West Bank. 
 ''Nobody yet knows what they can achieve,'' said Wael Bani Odeh, a 30-year-old cab-driver. Indeed, said Saed Abu Farha, a Palestinian newspaper reporter here, ''the first response is good but people want to see what they can do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ahmed Qurei, center, yesterday after lawmakers, meeting in Ramallah, in the West Bank, approved a cabinet. Right, Deputy Prime Minister Nabil Shaath, and left, Rawhi Fattouh, parliament speaker. (Photo by Kevin Frayer/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); AL FATAH (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ETHICS (75%); WRITERS (69%); RELIGION (50%) Palestinians; Legislatures and Parliaments; Politics and Government; Ethics

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%) Alan Cowell; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Yasir (1929-2004) Arafat; Nabil Shaath; Ahmed (Prime Min) Qurei

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



549 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: A Shell Game in the Arms Race

BYLINE: By Matthew Godsey and Gary Milhollin. 
Matthew Godsey and Gary Milhollin are, respectively, a research associate and the director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH has enjoyed a surprisingly jovial reception in Europe this week, but there has been a serious point of contention: the desire of European countries to lift the 15-year ban on arms sales to China. Given concerns that the Chinese are willing to sell military, and perhaps even nuclear, technology to the highest bidder, Mr. Bush's stance seems admirable. Unfortunately, his reasonable skepticism about China's intentions hasn't translated into a solid commitment. 
 For example, earlier this month Under Secretary of State John Bolton scolded China for allowing its companies to spread weapons technology, saying the embargo was just as important ''today as it was in 1989.'' Yet such talk is undermined by the State Department's own failure to check Chinese companies' reckless sales, and by weaknesses in American trade laws. In the end, China knows it has little to fear from Washington. 
 Case in point: Sinopec, China's state-owned oil and gas giant, has subsidiaries that the State Department has hit with sanctions four times since 1997 for selling to Iran materials that could be used to make chemical weapons. However, because these subsidiaries do little or no business with the United States, the punishments -- curbs on trade with America -- were purely symbolic. 
 Sinopec itself has extensive ties with American companies, dealings Washington could block. Yet we refuse to punish it for anything its offshoots do. The reason is simple: American sanctions laws were written so that the government can hold a parent company responsible only if it ''knowingly'' assists a sale by its subsidiary, a burden of proof our intelligence agencies can rarely meet. Why? Because our government is largely unwilling to hurt the financial interests of American firms that do business with companies like Sinopec. 
 This laxity on our part leaves Sinopec free to sell whatever it likes to Tehran. In 1997, the same year the State Department first cited subsidiaries of Sinopec for ''knowingly and materially contributing to Iran's chemical weapon program,'' Iran promised to increase oil exports to China by 40 percent. The following year, Iran chose the Chinese company over a host of European rivals to renovate oil refineries in Tehran and Tabriz, and to construct an oil terminal on the Caspian Sea. In 2001, when the State Department again censured a subsidiary for continuing sales to Iran of products useful for poison gas production, Sinopec won the right to explore Iran's Zavareh-Kashan oilfield. 
 Then, last October, Sinopec pulled off its biggest coup: a $70 billion deal in which the Chinese company will buy hundreds of millions of tons of liquefied natural gas and will help Iran develop its Yadavaran oil field. 
 The fact is, the United States could lower the boom on Sinopec by cutting its ties to the American economy. In 2000, Sinopec raised some $3.5 billion by selling shares on the New York Stock Exchange, with Exxon-Mobil buying a large stake. Halliburton has since provided Sinopec a design for a new chemical plant; Bechtel has helped it build a petrochemical complex in China; and ConocoPhillips has aided it in oil and gas exploration. 
 And, believe it or not, in 2002 Sinopec received a $429,000 grant from the United States Trade and Development Agency. The purpose was to help an import-export subsidiary to develop an electronic procurement system. No matter that another Sinopec subsidiary, the awkwardly named Jiangsu Yongli Chemical Engineering and Technology Import/Export Corporation, was under sanctions for sales to Iran, or that Sinopec ranked among the 100 richest firms in the world according to Fortune magazine. Uncle Sam still wanted to help it market its products. 
 Sinopec is hardly the only beneficiary of American kindliness. Our weak laws have spared Sinosteel, China Aviation Industry Corporation I and II, and China North Industries Group Corporation, even though subsidiaries of these state-owned conglomerates have been sanctioned for selling missile technology to Iran and Pakistan. In large part, we can lay the blame for this charade on a compliant government and on political pressure from American companies, whose lobbyists work to ensure that federal sanctions laws are written to protect their corporate interests. This is a travesty, because cutting off access to our economy is the most powerful leverage we have, and our failure to use it shows we aren't serious about punishing rogue states and their corporations.
 Our laws need to be rewritten so that Sinopec and other companies that abet the spread of weaponry through their subsidiaries are kicked out of American capital markets, forbidden to deal with our companies and denied access to American goods and technology. Only then will they have an incentive to change their ways, and only then can our government honestly claim that it is trying to shut down the global arms bazaar.


GRAPHIC: Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMS RACE (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (72%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) United States International Relations; Arms Sales Abroad; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Lobbying and Lobbyists

COMPANY: CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (85%)

TICKER: SNP (NYSE) (85%); SNP (LSE) (85%); 0386 (HKSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Matthew Godsey; Gary Milhollin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (70%); TABRIZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (55%) CASPIAN SEA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN (70%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



550 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; BUSH IN EUROPE: MEETING WITH PUTIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND PUTIN EXHIBIT TENSION OVER DEMOCRACY

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID E. SANGER; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Bratislava, Slovakia, for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: BRATISLAVA, Slovakia, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
President Bush expressed concern on Thursday night about Russia's commitment to democracy in a sometimes tense and awkward encounter with President Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Putin, at times visibly uncomfortable, refused to yield. 
 ''Democracies have certain things in common -- a rule of law and protection of minorities and a free press and a viable political opposition,'' Mr. Bush said after a private meeting that lasted more than an hour, chiding Mr. Putin gently though more directly than ever before. ''I was able to share my concerns about Russia's commitment in fulfilling these universal principles.''
 Mr. Putin tartly responded that he would listen to some of Mr. Bush's ideas but not comment on others and said that debating ''whether we have more or less democracy is not the right thing to do.'' 
 The Russian president also said that the American Electoral College was in essence a ''secret ballot'' and pointedly noted, ''It is not considered undemocratic, is it?''
 The joint news conference after their summit meeting at the medieval Bratislava Castle overlooking the Danube was designed to portray unity on a day when the two sides announced an agreement that could reduce the potential threat of nuclear terrorism by speeding up the much-delayed securing and dismantling of some of Russia's nuclear materials. 
 But it also offered unusual moments of heat as Mr. Bush continued to press a campaign for democracy and liberty that has received mixed reviews during his four-day European tour. It appeared to have struck one of its more discordant notes with Mr. Putin. The exchanges stood in contrast to the reception for Mr. Bush earlier during his speech to thousands of enthusiastic Slovaks in Bratislava's main Hviezdoslavovo Square, where Mr. Bush appeared to caution Mr. Putin not to meddle, as he did recently in Ukraine, with the democratic advances in a region that Russia considers its sphere of influence.
 Beyond the nuclear agreement, the day produced no breakthroughs. Mr. Bush said he and Mr. Putin agreed that Iran and North Korea should not have nuclear weapons. But the two sides remained divided over Iran and Syria. A senior administration official said that Russian plans to sell Syria missiles were ''destabilizing'' at this point. ''We made that point clear,'' he said.
 On Russia's continued sale of equipment to Iran for its nuclear program, there also appeared to be little progress, though a senior administration official said the president was ''satisfied'' that Mr. Putin had reiterated his pledge not to sell nuclear fuel to Iran without an agreement that the spent fuel would be returned to Russia. 
 That has been important to the United States because spent fuel can be converted to weapons-grade plutonium. This month, Mr. Putin talked with Iran about expanding their nuclear relationship, a subject the official said did not come up in Thursday's conversation.
 Apparently in an effort to display fuller progress, the United States and Russia jointly announced a handful of modest agreements, including an effort to limit the spread of shoulder-fired missiles and some other deals already committed to on trade and energy.
 A senior administration official who took part in the nuclear talks said that the goal of the accord was to ''accelerate the process'' of securing Russian stockpiles. Under the agreement, the official said, most of the excess weapons fuel in Russia would be secured or converted to commercial fuel by about 2008, four years earlier than expected at the current pace of work under a plan that has been in place since after the cold war.
 The slowness of the multibillion-dollar program became a heated topic in the presidential campaign, when Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, accused Mr. Bush of moving far too slowly in addressing what may be the biggest single proliferation risk in the world. Administration officials rushed to reach an agreement that would jump-start the efforts, and to show that Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin could cooperate, even as they disagreed on democratization issues. 
 ''It was an important statement,'' said Matthew Bunn, a Harvard nuclear specialist who worked with Mr. Kerry's campaign last year, ''because they put both presidents' names on a document that said this has to be taken seriously. And that is important because Russian security officials have been acting as if protecting a few more secrets from the U.S. is more important than protecting nuclear materials from falling into the hands of Osama bin Laden.''
 The two also agreed to form new emergency-response procedures if nuclear material was missing or a ''dirty bomb'' or a nuclear weapon fell into the wrong hands. But they failed to agree on who would be liable for accidents that might occur in the dangerous process of removing, converting and transporting weapons fuel and might not agree on that area until the two men meet in Moscow in May, officials said.
 Mr. Bush said that he and Mr. Putin had had a ''frank'' exchange in their one-on-one meeting, with interpreters the only other people in the room.
 He did not say what he meant by ''frank,'' but a senior administration official who briefed reporters on Mr. Bush's meeting with President Jacques Chirac of France earlier in the week said he did not want to describe that session as ''frank'' because ''it usually means a euphemism for bad.''
 The news conference had been built up during the president's four-day trip across Europe as a face-off between Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin over the course of democracy in Russia, where in recent months Mr. Putin has taken steps to tighten state control over the economy and stifle dissent. 
 Mr. Putin declared that Russia was committed to ''the fundamental principles of democracy.'' But he archly said that democracy ''should not be accompanied by the collapse of the state and the impoverishment of the people.'' 
 Mr. Bush said that Russia had undergone an ''amazing transformation'' in the last 15 years. But he said he had expressed his concerns to Mr. Putin about Russia's democratic health ''in a constructive and friendly way.''
 Some moments later, Mr. Putin responded to Mr. Bush: ''I believe that some of his ideas could be taken into account in my work, and I will pay due attention to them, that's for sure. Some other ideas, I will not comment on.''
 In one of the few moments of humor in the news conference, Mr. Bush started to chuckle, and Mr. Putin winked back.
 At moments, Mr. Bush displayed the characteristic jolliness he uses when he is trying to win someone over, and Mr. Putin just as characteristically stood ramrod straight with a grim expression. 
 The two became the most animated when a Russian journalist asked Mr. Bush why he did not talk about restrictions to press freedom in his own country and ''about the fact that some journalists have been fired?''
 Mr. Bush responded that ''I don't know what journalists you're referring to,'' and then turned to the White House press corps and said, ''Any of you all still have your jobs?'' 
 Mr. Putin, jumping to answer the question, said, ''I'm not the minister of propaganda.''
 Both men also shot back at another Russian reporter who said in his question that ''the regimes'' in place in Russia and the United States could not be considered fully democratic, especially when compared with the Netherlands.
 Mr. Putin responded that ''you have cited a curious example -- the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a monarchy, after all.''
 Mr. Bush responded that ''I live in a transparent country'' where ''decisions made by government are wide open, and people are able to call people -- me -- to account, which many here do on a regular basis.''
 In one of the easier areas of common interest, the two sides agreed to a deal to limit the spread of the shoulder-fired missiles called Man-Portable Air Defense Systems, or Manpads. Such missiles can be fired by one person, are favored by terrorists and pose a threat to military and commercial aircraft. 
 The State Department estimates that one million have been produced worldwide, but that a much smaller number, somewhere in the thousands, are in the hands of what the State Department calls ''non-state actors.''
 In his speech to Slovaks, Mr. Bush compared events in Iraq to the overthrow of Communism in the Velvet Revolution in 1989 in Czechoslovakia, which Slovakia broke from in 1993. ''And as you watched jubilant Iraqis dancing in the streets last month, holding up ink-stained fingers, you remembered Velvet Days,'' Mr. Bush said. ''For the Iraqi people, this is their 1989, and they will always remember who stood with them in their quest for freedom.'' Mr. Bush also recalled the 2003 bloodless revolution in Georgia in which the rose was the symbol, and the recent democratic upheaval in Ukraine, where orange was the color of Viktor A. Yushchenko, the opposition leader who was inaugurated president in January. 
 He then added a colored revolution of his own, referring to the purple ink-stained fingers that Iraqis held up to show they had voted in the Jan. 30 elections. ''In recent times, we have witnessed landmark events in the history of liberty, a Rose Revolution in Georgia, an Orange Revolution in Ukraine, and now, a Purple Revolution in Iraq,'' Mr. Bush said.
 His seeming warning to Mr. Putin came with a statement that this democratic progress was not complete, but inevitable, even in those states that Russia has kept close at its side. 
 ''The democratic revolutions that swept this region over 15 years ago are now reaching Georgia and Ukraine,'' Mr. Bush said. ''In 10 days, Moldova has the opportunity to place its democratic credentials beyond doubt as its people head to the polls. And inevitably, the people of Belarus will someday proudly belong to the country of democracies.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, with Prime Minister Mikulas Dzurinda of Slovakia, and his wife, Eva, spoke yesterday in Hviezdoslavovo Square in Bratislava. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 Presidents Bush and Vladimir V. Putin of Russia spoke yesterday at Bratislava Castle in Slovakia. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (59%); TERRORISM (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Elisabeth Bumiller; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SLOVAKIA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Russia; Bratislava (Slovakia); Russia; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



551 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Syria Vows to Quit Lebanon But Declines to Say When

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY and HASSAN M. FATTAH; Hassan M. Fattah reported from Damascus for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24 

 BODY:
Syria, responding to pressure from Washington and the European Union, announced Thursday that it would move its military forces throughout Lebanon to the Bekaa region near the Syrian border and, eventually, out of Lebanon altogether. 
 ''The decision to withdraw has been taken,'' Defense Minister Abdul-Rahim Murad told Syrian television. ''What remains is the exact timing.''
 President Bush and President Jacques Chirac of France this week both demanded a Syrian withdrawal from Lebanon, and on Thursday the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, said he welcomed the announcement from Damascus but urged the Syrians to withdraw by April. A State Department spokeswoman, Darla Jordan, said, ''This needs to happen immediately.'' 
 Critics of Syria's role were wary, particularly over how significant any troop pullback would be and whether it would do anything to resolve Syria's other deep entanglements in Lebanon. 
 Many of Syria's 14,000 soldiers in the country were redeployed from major cities like Beirut to the Bekaa region last year, and the latest announcement is likely to affect only a fraction of the troops. 
 In addition, senior Lebanese and Syrian officials acknowledge that when the last Syrian soldier departs, Lebanon will still be largely controlled by Syria, because the military presence is only the most visible element of Syrian control.
 Walid Jumblatt, the Druse leader who is a longtime critic of Syria, told Al Jazeera television on Thursday that ''we demand a fixed timetable for a comprehensive withdrawal.'' He added that ''today the Syrian intelligence service controls everything'' in Lebanon.
 Tens of thousands of Lebanese protesters have taken to the streets of Beirut in the last week, since the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, demanding that Syrian troops leave the country. Though investigators have not determined who set the bomb that killed Mr. Hariri, Syrian officials acknowledge that they are being blamed even though they have proclaimed their innocence. 
 ''Syria cannot withstand this tremendous international pressure, from the United States, from France,'' said Imad Moustapha, the Syrian ambassador to the United States. ''We will leave Lebanon, but we will not do it in a disorganized way. What our enemies really want is for there to be an immediate withdrawal that will be humiliating for Syria.'' 
 Neither he nor anyone else would stipulate a timetable for the withdrawal.
 ''We do not interfere in the Lebanese elections,'' Mr. Moustapha said, ''but we do use our influence to form our own party lists,'' which dominate the Lebanese Parliament. That, he said, is not likely to change.
 In Beirut, Prime Minister Omar Karami, reacting to the Syrian withdrawal announcement, told Reuters that ''we are interwoven'' with Syria ''in all fields -- religious, political, national, social and economic.''
 Farid Abboud, the Lebanese ambassador to the United States, said: ''Even if they withdraw completely, Syrians will still have their important political constituency. The political dynamics will continue.''
 Up to 600,000 Syrians work in Lebanon, filling menial roles as waiters, construction and service workers that Lebanese do not want to fill. The money they send home is critical for the Syrian economy. 
 At the same time, Syrian businessmen, unwilling to use Syria's ''failed banking system'' as Ambassador Moustapha put it, borrow and invest in Lebanese banks, providing a large portion of Lebanon's banking business. 
 A Congress Research Service report published last month notes that ''although it is difficult to quantify the economic benefits Syria derives from its occupation of Lebanon, most experts note that the Lebanese economy is vital to Syria's own economic health.''
 Steven Cook, a Middle East expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, said, ''It is absolutely clear that over the course of the last 15 years, Syria has used Lebanon as its outlet to the rest of the world, as its economic lifeboat, and I don't see them giving that up.'' 
 A senior Lebanese official said, ''There is corruption, a great deal of corruption, in both directions.'' He and others said Syria had richly rewarded politicians who remained loyal and threatened others, which is why Syria was quickly blamed for Mr. Hariri's death. Mr. Hariri had resigned from the government and seemed likely to run in the elections scheduled for May on a platform opposed to continued Syrian occupation.
 Fred Eckhard, the spokesman for Secretary General Annan, said a three-member United Nations team to investigate the assassination of Mr. Hariri arrived in Beirut on Thursday. The team is led by Peter Fitzgerald, a deputy police commissioner of Ireland.
 Even though Syria insists it had no role in assassination, ''it was a disaster for Syria,'' Mr. Moustapha said. ''It made us change our strategy.''
 Still, Syrian government officials and their allies in Damascus are insisting that Syria get some form of guarantee in exchange for a withdrawal. That guarantee, said Michel Kilo, a prominent Syrian opposition figure, is a promise that President Bashar al-Assad's government will survive.
 Elias Mrad, a Syrian Baath party official and editor of the government-controlled daily Al Baath, said: ''Our presence in Lebanon is a card. If we're going to put it down we want something in return.''
 Many officials in the Syrian government see withdrawing from Lebanon as tantamount to capitulation, a move sure to bring about the fall of President Assad and those around him. 
 ''They see pulling out of Lebanon as the same as pulling out of Damascus,'' Mr. Kilo said. ''They are open to reform, but only if there are international guarantees that at the end of the process the regime will survive.''
 The biggest risk now is that Syria may panic, making an already bad situation worse.
 ''The problem is everybody has taken extreme stands,'' says Ahmed al-Haj Hassan, head of the Syrian Press Syndicate. ''But there's a new world out there and a new reality. You can no longer have business as usual.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Syria's intention to withdraw its troops from Lebanon paraphrased incorrectly from a comment by Imad Moustapha, Syrian ambassador to the United States, after he acknowledged that his country had used its influence to have pro-Syrian candidates offered for the Lebanese Parliament. He said Syria would stop that practice, not continue it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Syrian soldiers at a position in the Bekaa region of eastern Lebanon. Troops from the rest of the country are to move there, then withdraw. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (76%) Joel Brinkley; Hassan M Fattah; George W (Pres) Bush; Jacques (Pres) Chirac; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Abdul-Rahim (Min) Murad

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); JORDAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) Lebanon; Syria; France; Bekaa (Lebanon); Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



552 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Social Security and the Generations

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I take issue with your Feb. 23 editorial ''Some Inheritance'' regarding President Bush's policy on personal accounts within Social Security. 
 The president is firmly on record in favor of allowing those who die before retirement to pass on their nest egg to their loved ones.
 For those in retirement, the president has said they would not be able to spend their accounts all at once and put themselves in poverty. There are many ways to provide this protection that still allow for an inheritance to be passed on.
 In 13 years, the Social Security system begins paying out more money than it takes in. This presents a choice of raising taxes, borrowing money or cutting spending. The president's proposal for fixing the system today will give workers a nest egg, allow them to pass on an inheritance to their children and own a piece of their retirement that no one can take away.

Allan B. Hubbard
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy
Washington, Feb. 24, 2005


GRAPHIC: Drawing by Michael Sloan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



553 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Americas: Cuba: U.S. Company Wins Cigar Appeal

BYLINE: By Julia Preston (NYT)

 BODY:
Cuba cannot enforce the trademark of Cohiba cigars, one of its most prestigious brands, in the United States because of the decades-old trade embargo against President Fidel Castro's government, a federal appeals court ruled. The Second Circuit Court in New York overturned a May 2004 district court decision that General Cigar, an American company, had violated trademark laws by selling cigars under the Cohiba name in the United States. Although Cuba never registered the Cohiba trademark in the United States, the lower court judge found that the name was famous enough to deserve protection. But the appeals court ruled that the embargo bars Cuba from acquiring any American trademarks. Julia Preston (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); APPEALS (91%); TRADEMARK LAW (91%); TRADEMARKS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SMOKING (88%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (88%); VERDICTS (87%); HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (86%); JUDGES (85%) Smoking and Tobacco; Cigars; Trademarks and Trade Names; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Decisions and Verdicts; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: General Cigar Holdings Inc

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%) Julia Preston; Fidel (Pres) Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2005



554 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Workers at Wal-Mart Shop Vote Against a Labor Union
Workers at a tiny Wal-Mart tire and lube shop in Loveland, Colo., voted against forming a union in what was a closely watched test of labor's efforts to organize employees at the world's largest retailer.
 Union support at the Loveland shop dissipated after Wal-Mart exposed workers to videos about problems with unions and transferred other workers into the shop. [Page A8.]

Wal-Mart Canada was ordered by Quebec's labor relations board to stop intimidating workers at a store in the midst of an organizing drive. [C10.]

G.D.P. Figure Is Revised Higher
Economic momentum at the end of last year was stronger than previously thought, according to a government report that revised fourth-quarter gross domestic product to reflect stronger exports and investment. G.D.P. grew at a revised 3.8 percent annual rate in the final three months of last year, instead of the 3.1 percent reported a month ago. That was slightly stronger than the 3.7 percent rate that Wall Street economists had forecast. [C4.]

Bank Is Told to Halt U.S. Operations
Federal regulators ordered Arab Bank, which is based in Jordan and is facing several lawsuits in New York filed by victims of terrorist attacks, to suspend most of its operations in the United States, saying its internal controls were inadequate. [C4.]

Riggs National agreed to pay an unusual $8 million settlement to resolve a Spanish legal action related to its dealings with Chile's former dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet. [C4.]

Japanese Drug Maker to Buy Rival
Sankyo plans to buy its smaller rival Daiichi Pharmaceutical in a $7.7 billion deal that is the latest in a string of mergers and buyouts among Japanese drug makers. [C3.]

Skirmishes Over Europe-U.S. Trade
The United States and the European Union are disagreeing over positions on agricultural trade they adopted last year, casting doubt on their progress in trade talks. [C3.]

Stocks Head Higher for a Third Day
A positive report on economic growth sent stocks higher for the third consecutive day. The Dow average rose 92.81 points, to 10,841.60, its best close since Dec. 28. The S.&.P. 500 was up 11.17 points, to 1,211.37, and the Nasdaq composite gained 13.7 points, to 2,065.40. All three indexes ended higher after a turbulent week. [C4.]

Europe Follows Up on Microsoft
The European Commission will consult with the computer industry on whether Microsoft is complying with an antitrust ruling against it, a commission spokesman said. [C3.]

Tax Payments Lead to a Loss at MCI
An earnings report from MCI showed that its finances have largely stabilized, but it raised some questions about why the company is considered a hot property. [C10.]

Clear Channel Reports a Loss
Clear Channel, the nation's largest radio station owner, posted a fourth-quarter loss of $4.67 billion after writing down the value of radio licenses. [C2.]

Reality Show Seeks a Rock Star
Mark Burnett, the creator of ''The Apprentice'' and other reality shows, is working on ''Rock Star,'' in which contestants will compete for the chance to join the rock band INXS. [B9.]

Icahn Effort on Bylaws Rejected
Mylan Laboratories said a federal judge had rejected an attempt by the financier Carl C. Icahn to block a change in its bylaws involving nominations for the company's board. [C4.]


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,841.60 up 92.81Nasdaq composite -- 2,065.40 up 13.7010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.27% down 0.02The euro -- $1.3242 up 0.0034The dollar -- 105.21 yen down 0.19Graph tracks the G.D.P. from the third quarter of 2003 through the fourth quarter of 2004.Graph tracks daily closes of the Standard & Poor's 500 since November. Yesterday: 1,211.37(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); LITIGATION (87%); OIL & LUBE SHOPS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); MERGERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAILERS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (69%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); TERRORISM (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%); AGRICULTURE (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (86%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (86%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (86%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



555 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 720 words

PERSON: John Wilhelm Ebstein

HEADLINE: John Ebstein, 92, Designer; Helped Streamline Sports Car

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
John Ebstein, an industrial designer employed by Raymond Loewy, the ''father of streamlining,'' who led the team that created the Studebaker Avanti sports car and influenced the look of products including Lucky Strike cigarettes and Greyhound buses, died on Feb. 18 in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 92.
 The cause was a heart attack, his son, Peter, said.
 Mr. Ebstein contributed to the design of space capsules, Pennsylvania Railroad locomotives and Air Force One, but his most notable achievement was supervising the team of young designers that in two weeks in 1961 created the Avanti for the Studebaker-Packard Corporation. 
 The radically styled, powerful sports coupe did not fulfill its intended purpose of saving its maker from financial collapse, but it became revered among automobile enthusiasts and design devotees as one of the world's most consummate sports cars. It was built in the 1963 and 1964 model years. 
 The Avanti, which means ''forward'' in Italian, had a Coke-bottle shape, with a narrowing in the middle that inspired European racing cars for a generation. It could hold four passengers and had two doors, a long hood, a host trunk, an asymmetrical power bulge on the hood, virtually no chrome trim and no fins. The interior was inspired by aircraft flight decks, with numerous toggle switches on the console.
 The car's genesis happened in a two-room bungalow in Palm Springs, Calif., that Mr. Loewy had rented as a design studio 10 days after Chrysler hired him to come up with a sports car to challenge Ford's Thunderbird. After doing preliminary sketches himself, Mr. Loewy put Mr. Ebstein, his chief of staff, in charge of the project, and hired Thomas W. Kellogg, a young design whiz, to do most of the drawing and Robert Andrews to build scale models and work on the interior. Mr. Loewy often dropped by the house. 
 In just two weeks, they had completed an initial design, which included air-brushed paintings by Mr. Ebstein, to present to Studebaker. Mr. Ebstein was the last survivor of the group. 
 John Wilhelm Ebstein was born in Stettin, Germany, on May 14, 1912. He began his architectural studies in Stuttgart, then fled the country by motorcycle with his possessions strapped to his back when Hitler assumed power in 1933.
 He continued his studies in Paris and Prague, where he earned an architectural degree. He immigrated to the United States in 1938 and joined Loewy Associates the same year. 
 He and Mr. Loewy, who was long the most influential designer in the United States, always spoke French to each another.
 ''John was the quintessential Renaissance man,'' said Laurence Loewy in an interview with Avanti magazine, whose audience is Avanti owners. ''This bonded him with my father, Raymond Loewy, making it possible for them to understand each other instinctively. Dad considered John his best friend and they remained close long after John left Dad's employ.''
 In 1979 remarks included in The New York Times obituary of Mr. Loewy in 1986, Mr. Loewy spoke of his relationship with his early colleagues, including Mr. Ebstein, whose strong graphics and air-brushing he particularly valued.
 ''My early colleagues and myself helped create the lifestyles of Americans and, by osmosis, of the rest of the world,'' Mr. Loewy said, extolling the group's ''total exhilaration and the ecstasy of creativity.''
 Shortly after Mr. Ebstein accompanied Mr. Loewy to the White House to discuss the Air Force One design with President John F. Kennedy in 1963, he resigned from Mr. Loewy's group so he could spend more of his time on designing and less on administration. 
 He joined Gabriel Industries as chief designer and patented many toys and sporting goods. He retired in 1977 when he reached 65, then continued designing for eight years as a consultant.
 In late 1994 or early 1995 he designed the logo used by the Florida chapter of the Avanti Owners Association International; the chapter is named in his honor.
 Mr. Ebstein's wife of 32 years, the former Doris Nethe, died in 1976; he later married Lenore Summers, who died in 1981.
 In addition to his son Peter, of Stamford, Conn., Mr. Ebstein is survived by his sons Robert, of Clinton, Mass., and Lewis, of Cincinnati; his stepsons Andrew, of Annapolis, Md., and Richard, of Philadelphia; 11 grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Saturday about John Ebstein, a designer of the Avanti sports car, referred incorrectly at one point to the automaker that commissioned the design. It was Studebaker-Packard, not Chrysler. The obituary also misstated the year his second wife, Lenore Summers, died. It was 1996, not 1981.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Ebstein led the design team of the Studebaker Avanti sports car. (Photo by United Press International, 1962) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (77%); TRAINS (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); PAINTING (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (78%)

CATEGORY: Industrial and Graphic Design

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



556 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Questions at SUNY Albany On Why a President Left

BYLINE: By AL BAKER and MICHAEL SLACKMAN

 BODY:
More than a year after she abruptly left her job as president of the State University of New York at Albany, Dr. Karen R. Hitchcock was Topic A on her former campus yesterday after revelations that she had faced a state ethics inquiry into her actions while she led the university.
 The inquiry, into whether she offered to steer a contract to a developer, was halted when she resigned in January 2004, because state law effectively gives state employees immunity from ethics charges when they leave the state payroll. But yesterday, the school was abuzz with talk about Dr. Hitchcock and her tenure at SUNY Albany in light of the revelations about the inquiry, with some people speculating that it may have played a role in her unexpected departure months before she had originally planned to leave the post. 
 ''I would like to know why she up and left,'' Greg Baker, a sophomore from Queens, said as he exited the education department and headed for his car. ''She just kind of disappeared. It kind of hangs around, like, 'Why would someone in that kind of job all of a sudden give it up?'''
 The inquiry by the State Ethics Commission centered on allegations that she offered to steer a contract to a developer, who would endow a university professorship that she could then fill, according to state officials familiar with the ethics review. 
 When she left the presidency, Dr. Hitchcock had moved up her departure date, citing family concerns. Yesterday, she released a statement saying the inquiry was not a factor in her departure. She also denied wrongdoing during her time at SUNY Albany.
 ''There is no substance whatsoever to the complaints that I used my position as president of the University at Albany to advance my personal interests,'' she said in a statement posted on the Web site of her new employer, Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, where she is principal. ''The New York State Ethics Commission advised me of these complaints at the end of April 2004, fully six months after I had announced my intention to resign as president at the end of June 2004.'' She said her resignation was not accelerated. She said she gave the commission ''a candid and complete reply'' to the accusations.
 In her statement, Dr. Hitchcock also said she would continue her efforts to answer ''these false and anonymous accusations'' to the full extent of state law.
 Still, her departure puzzled many faculty members, some of whom now say they believe that their questions about her departure were not satisfactorily answered at the time. ''Karen Hitchcock left the presidency under extremely unusual circumstances and in a very unusual way,'' said Michael Jerison, a professor in the economics department who knew Dr. Hitchcock professionally. ''And there was never any clear explanation given to the faculty as to why.''
 Others said they were long suspicious about Dr. Hitchcock's citing personal reasons when she left.
 ''I think most people thought that was a cover for something,'' said Jon Mandle, the philosophy department chairman, during a break between afternoon classes. Last year, he said, people speculated that she might have had a conflict with the SUNY trustees. ''This now suggests there is another possible explanation,'' he said.
 At Queen's University, officials said they were standing by Ms. Hitchcock, and added that she had alerted the university to the inquiry. Charles Baillie, chancellor of Queen's University, and John Rae, chairman of the board, issued a statement on behalf of the university stating that when Dr. Hitchcock was a candidate for the post of principal, which is equivalent to a university president, she told the search committee about the accusation and gave it a detailed response.
 At that point, the statement said, the search committee ''rechecked the references, went to new sources and got additional advice from knowledgeable people.''
 ''As a result of this due diligence the committee reconfirmed its unanimous recommendation for her selection to the full board of trustees,'' the statement continued.
 Some at SUNY Albany wondered if the situation would reflect poorly on the college. Already, students are unhappy that tuition has been increasing as the numbers of full-time faculty members has declined. But Eileen Carey, who was on a tour of the school with her daughter, Liz, a high school junior from Westchester County, said the college would endure and the questions would not deter them. ''It's like Italy,'' she said. ''Governments come and go, but there's a large bureaucracy underneath that keeps things going.''
 As he walked through the campus center yesterday, Kermit L. Hall, the new university president, who has been in Dr. Hitchcock's former post for about two weeks, said he was struggling to explain things.
 ''I've been in meetings all morning,'' he said. ''People have been posing the questions: 'What's going on? What's behind all this? What does it mean?'''
 Adam Thorpe, an official in the Student Association, the student government, said the loophole that forced a halt to ethics inquiries of employees who leave state service raised curious questions about why the loophole was never closed.
 Dr. Hitchcock's lawyer, Michael Whiteman, said the loophole in the law that short-circuits ethics inquiries is also detrimental to those wrongly accused, since it deprives people of a forum to present their side and to have the charges fully discussed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



557 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Barreling Implacably Down the Tracks, a Fare Increase

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Millions of New York City subway and bus riders will start to pay more for their commuting at precisely one second after midnight tomorrow, when the latest fare increase by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority takes effect.
 It is the 15th increase in the 100-year history of the subway system. But it is the first to occur without an adjustment in the base fare for a single ride, which will remain $2. 
 What is changing are the prices of the unlimited-ride cards that have gradually become the fare medium of choice in the 11 years since the introduction of the MetroCard. 
 The cost of a 7-day card will rise to $24 from $21; a 30-day card to $76 from $70; and a 7-day express bus card to $41 from $37. The price of a one-way express bus ride will increase to $5 from $4.
 The Sunday changes affect Long Island Bus as well.
 On Tuesday, fares on the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North Railroad will increase by an average of 5 percent, although some commuters will see increases as high as 15 percent. On March 13, tolls on the authority's bridges and tunnels will increase by 25 or 50 cents. The changes, approved in December, are occurring less than two years after the last increase. In 2003, the base subway and bus fare rose to $2 from $1.50 and the transit system stopped accepting the token, which had been an emblem of subway use since 1953. 
 Gone are the days when mechanics had to reconfigure turnstiles across the city to accept new tokens and when station booth attendants rationed the number of tokens customers could buy to prevent hoarding.
 This fare change is being put into effect by engineers sitting over a mainframe computer that controls, among other devices, 3,143 regular turnstiles, 520 floor-to-ceiling turnstiles, 763 computers inside station booths with attendants and 2,240 MetroCard vending machines. Then there are 18 bus depot computers that communicate with fareboxes in 4,566 buses. The total work took the equivalent of three people working full-time for a month. 
 For a man who oversees computers that must be reprogrammed so that passengers can pay for seven million subway and bus rides each day, Robert A. Otero was nonchalant yesterday.
 ''We had minimal problems in 2003, and we expect minimal problems this time,'' said Mr. Otero, chief of applications in the technology and information services division at New York City Transit.
 Still, he is not taking chances. Fare increases typically are put into effect on Sundays so that any problems can be ironed out before the Monday commuter rush. Starting tonight, workers will staff a 24-hour command center that will monitor the vending machines and other devices.
 ''We intend on closing it Tuesday morning,'' Mr. Otero said. ''We'll cover the period when the fare first changes, we'll cover the period for a morning rush hour and an evening rush hour. After that, if everything runs smoothly, we'll disband it.'' 
 Francisco A. Villao, who oversaw the reprogramming of the machines, noted that the fare structure is more complex than it might appear. He cited, as an example, special fares for elderly or disabled riders, which are increasing to $12 for a 7-day card and $38 for a 30-day card.
 In addition, the agency's accounting and internal reporting systems all need to be adjusted to record the revenues from the new fares, said Daniel R. Rodriguez, who supervises that effort. 
 Riders will have a grace period to use cards bought today or earlier. Seven-day fare cards and express bus passes bought under the old prices can be used until March 7, while 30-day cards can be used until April 3.
 Nonetheless, the fare increase is not sitting well with many riders. 
 ''An increase just happened, so why are we having another one so quickly?'' asked Katherine Williams, 28, a television station employee who lives in Hell's Kitchen. ''People of all demographics and all salary ranges are all affected by this. Everyone has to ride the subway. Of all the elements of New York City life, to raise the cost of the subway is awful.''
 Nick Griner, 29, a computer programmer from Harlem, said that as a frequent rider, he usually bought monthly cards to take advantage of the discount. ''With the monthly, you can save a little bit, but even that's becoming less,'' he said. ''The rates are increasing way too often.''
 Mr. Griner said, glumly, that the subway is a monopoly. ''If they raised it to $5 per ride, people would still ride it,'' he said. ''There's no way to really stop them.''
 Nancy Stearns, 65, a lawyer in the West Village, said the fare increase was an indication of the transportation authority's fiscal problems.
 ''The state should contribute money,'' she said. ''It's crucial to have additional government funding for mass transit. It's important that working people not be stretched beyond the limit of what they can afford.''
 The 2003 fare increases raised less revenue than officials had predicted, largely because riders shifted their buying patterns toward the unlimited-ride cards. Now that the cost of those cards is about to increase, riders might flock to regular cards, which offer discounts on purchases of $10 or more.
 ''I don't think you can accurately predict what people will do,'' said Paul J. Fleuranges, a transit agency spokesman. ''No one in New York pays retail. People will find the value that works best for them.''


CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the transit fare increases in New York City misstated the previous price of a seven-day express bus card, which rose yesterday to $41. It was $33, not $37.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy Stearns, a rider on the E train, called for more money for mass transit from the state, and worried that ''working people not be stretched beyond the limit of what they can afford.''
 Katherine Williams, waiting at a station on Eighth Avenue, wondered why another fare increase has followed the last one so quickly. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)Chart: ''Subway Ridership and Fares''There were more rides taken on New York City subways last year than in any year since 1953. But weekly and monthly fares are scheduled to go up tomorrow, and ridership has often declined after a fare increase.Graph tracks number of rides per year and fare increases since 1940.Graph tracks base fare (actual and adjusted for inflation) since 1940.(Source by M.T.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (85%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



558 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: Transit Chief Shows Signs Of Political Independence

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Last week, Peter S. Kalikow did something striking for a businessman who has been close to political power throughout his career. In the face of considerable pressure and criticism, he stood up to the city's political leaders, particularly Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and agreed to solicit other bids to compete with the football stadium proposal championed by the mayor. 
 He did so, he said, to bring in the most money for the region's financially strapped transit network. And his stance was only the most recent time Mr. Kalikow has used his perch as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to challenge the power structure on behalf of the system. 
 In December, he presented his fiercely anti-tax patron, Gov. George E. Pataki, with a proposal for tax and fee increases to pay for mass transit. Then he warned that without more money, projects like the Second Avenue subway were in jeopardy, in effect challenging Mr. Pataki to pay for a new five-year capital program. 
 Now he is arguing that the agency needs to get top dollar for its West Side railyards, the site of the proposed stadium for the Jets and potentially for the Olympics.
 The role of independent and energetic advocate for transit was not one Mr. Kalikow was expected to play when Mr. Pataki appointed him the authority's eighth chairman in March 2001. A developer and investor who once owned The New York Post, Mr. Kalikow, 62, was better known as a Republican donor and heir to a real estate business than as a forceful voice in civic affairs.
 Indeed, many believed that Mr. Kalikow would serve in the mold of his predecessor, E. Virgil Conway, who had made it clear that his first loyalties were to Mr. Pataki. But in recent months, Mr. Kalikow has become a far more forceful advocate for the system than Mr. Conway was, which was a result, Mr. Kalikow said, of his growing appreciation for the transit system.
 ''I don't want to use the word in love with it, but I kind of am,'' he said in an interview yesterday. ''I just become more impressed with the place. The more I'm impressed with it, the more that I see that not to put in the money to keep the momentum going would be a terrible thing.'' 
 The amounts at stake for the West Side railyards, over which the stadium would be built in the city's plan, are but a small fraction of the $27.7 billion capital program the authority is seeking. Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden, has offered $600 million for the right to build a residential, retail and office development over the yards, less the cost of building a platform. The Jets have offered $100 million for the right to erect a stadium.
 Yet the two issues have become inextricably linked, particularly because the bidding is taking place at the moment that the authority is pleading for a capital budget to anyone who will listen.
 ''The coincidence of the timing here is extraordinary,'' said Richard Ravitch, a former chairman of the authority who talks regularly with Mr. Kalikow. 
 Mr. Kalikow inherited a system in relatively good physical shape -- with new cars, rehabilitated stations and ambitious plans for expansion -- because his predecessors had issued bonds and fought for state aid to revive a moribund system. But during Mr. Conway's tenure, from 1995 to 2001, the authority began to rely increasingly on new borrowing and debt restructuring.
 Subway ridership today is cresting at levels last seen during the Eisenhower administration, yet the authority's solvency is unclear. It anticipates operating deficits of close to $1 billion a year starting in 2008, even with another toll and fare increase anticipated in 2007. The latest subway and bus fare increase, approved in December, takes effect tomorrow. 
 The need for still more upgrades to repair an aging subway system gained new urgency last month when a fire destroyed a signal relay room in Lower Manhattan dating from the 1930's, crippling service on the A and C subway lines for over a week. 
 Mr. Kalikow has privately said that his reputation would be tarnished by any perception that he had made a sweetheart deal or handed away the development rights without trying to get the highest possible price, according to his friends and associates. 
 ''I think he views it as an independent, professional real estate matter,'' said the authority's vice chairman, David S. Mack, a friend of Mr. Kalikow's since childhood. ''This is a real estate deal under the jurisdiction of the M.T.A., and there isn't a better real estate expert than Peter.''
 Mr. Ravitch, who opposes the stadium proposal, said Mr. Kalikow was determined that the authority get full value for its assets. ''He's tough and he's smart,'' Mr. Ravitch said. ''Basically his pride as well as his fiduciary responsibility make him unwilling to cave on this.''
 Mr. Kalikow stopped short of criticizing Mr. Pataki yesterday, but he made it clear that they are at odds over the need for new transit aid. ''He doesn't do it out of spite or malice,'' Mr. Kalikow said. ''He has an aversion to taxes.'' He added, ''I don't have a problem, being a Republican, saying we need to invest in the mass transit system.'' 
 Friends said Mr. Kalikow was convinced that his tenure would be judged by his success or failure in securing money to maintain and expand the transit network.
 ''He really has drunk the Kool-Aid,'' said Martin J. McLaughlin, a personal spokesman for Mr. Kalikow. ''He has told me, 'If this capital budget doesn't go through, I may not want to stay on as chairman. I don't want to be the guy that presides over the Titanic.''' 
 As early as last March, when Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Pataki unveiled their plans for the stadium, Mr. Kalikow began to say that he believed the development rights were worth at least $400 million. When the Jets' offer came in much lower, Mr. Kalikow said, ''I thought $100 million, frankly, was an insult.''
 Mr. Kalikow said his decision to invite other bidders came after a weekend of discussions with Katherine N. Lapp, the authority's executive director, and with Ira M. Millstein, a lawyer who has advised the authority. ''In the end, Ira said, 'Peter, you can't do anything but put this out for bid,''' Mr. Kalikow said, adding that he had already favored that course of action. 
 Gene Russianoff, a lawyer for an advocacy group for riders, the Straphangers Campaign of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said the decision to hold an auction is only the latest indication of Mr. Kalikow's sense of urgency. 
 ''His moves -- from warning about the loss of the Second Avenue subway to putting out a program of new revenue sources -- are signs of a man who's on a mission to get the next capital program even though it's probably the heaviest lift in 20 years,'' Mr. Russianoff said. 
 Even Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky of Westchester County, a frequent critic of the authority, offered measured praise. 
 ''You have to recognize Kalikow's courage in standing up to the mayor and the governor in soliciting bids for the property,'' said Mr. Brodsky, the chairman of the Assembly committee that oversees the authority. ''This is about getting full value for the asset. He's saying, 'Where's my capital plan?'''
 However, others point out that Mr. Kalikow may have had little choice but to open the railyards for bidding. ''He had no alternative,'' said Mr. Conway, who is also a friend of the chairman. ''I think once Cablevision had made a bid, the proper move was to invite everybody.'' 
 Mr. Conway has an office on the same floor -- the 25th -- as Mr. Kalikow does at 101 Park Avenue, a building which Mr. Kalikow owns. Alfonse M. D'Amato, the former United States senator who has been close to Mr. Kalikow for years, also has an office on that floor.
 Mr. D'Amato is a lobbyist for Cablevision, but Mr. Kalikow said his decision to hold an auction was not influenced by his friend. ''I'm not saying that sometimes he doesn't try to give me a hint one way or the other, but I say, 'Senator, this has got to go by the book,''' Mr. Kalikow said. Mr. D'Amato did not respond to requests for comment.
 Still others believe that the structure of the auction favors the Jets, because the city might not agree to rezone the yards for any purpose other than a stadium, and also believe that the authority should independently seek a rezoning under state law. Mr. Kalikow said he believed that this power can legally be exercised only for strictly transit purposes.
 Peter E. Stangl, the authority's chairman from 1991 to 1995, said it was ultimately in the interests of the governor and mayor to have Mr. Kalikow as a strong transit advocate.
 ''The best politics is providing great service,'' Mr. Stangl said. ''If you ignore the capital investment, you may get away with it for a year or two, and they've tried it before, but pretty soon the service deteriorates, it has an impact on the economy and eventually the chickens come home to roost.''
 A Queens native, Mr. Kalikow inherited his family's real estate business after the death of his father, Harold J. Kalikow, in 1982. No longer an active developer, Mr. Kalikow was not a particularly successful businessman. He lost millions of dollars as the owner of The New York Post, from 1988 to 1993, and faced embarrassing scrutiny of his finances when he was forced to file for bankruptcy protection in 1991.
 For now, Mr. Kalikow appears to have strong support from his board. 
 Barry L. Feinstein, a board member since 1989 who represents the governor, said Mr. Kalikow is looking out for the interests of riders above all else. ''My point of view has always been that what's good for the city is not necessarily good for the M.T.A. and what's good for the M.T.A. is not necessarily good for the city,'' Mr. Feinstein said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter S. Kalikow, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, at a New York State Assembly committee hearing this month in Manhattan. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Peter S. Kalikow, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, has shown a measure of independence from political leaders. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); REAL ESTATE (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



559 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Member Burdened by High Oil Prices

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and JAD MOUAWAD; Keith Bradsher reported from Jakarta, Indonesia, for this article, and Jad Mouawad from New York.

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
What's good for OPEC is no longer good for one of its smallest members and its only representative from Asia. 
 While most oil ministers, from Saudi Arabia to Venezuela to Libya, say high prices are here to stay, one oil minister may be trying to talk prices down. 
 Purnomo Yusgiantoro, the minister of energy and mineral resources for Indonesia, said that a rough consensus had formed among oil ministers from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries that oil prices were too high. ''It has got to be lower than what we see today, because even OPEC doesn't like to see the high oil price,'' Mr. Purnomo said in an interview. 
 That consensus may not be as widely shared as Mr. Purnomo says. There are growing indications that OPEC's larger producers are actually getting more comfortable with higher oil prices. 
 That puts Indonesia in a unique -- and increasingly odd -- position that reflects how its standing within OPEC has changed as Indonesian oil production declines and domestic consumption grows. 
 For the last two years, Indonesia has not been able to meet its share of production assigned by OPEC, which stands at 1.4 million barrels a day. The country produced an average of 1.1 million barrels a day in 2004, down from 1991's average of 1.6 million barrels a day, according to figures compiled by the United States Energy Information Administration. 
 And while the world's producers struggled last year to meet runaway demand, Indonesia suffered the final infamy for a member of the oil-exporters' club: during the last four months of 2004, the country had to import some oil. Now, the government is considering leaving OPEC.
 Paradoxically for an oil producer, the high international prices are hurting Indonesia's public finances because the government subsidizes its domestic fuel sales, fixing a lower price at home than on the international market. With rising costs, Mr. Purnomo said that the cabinet planned to announce a 29 percent increase in retail prices for gasoline and diesel fuel on Monday night. The measure, he acknowledged, will be unpopular and is likely to prompt protests.
 But these concerns are far from the minds of Mr. Purnomo's counterparts within OPEC, who are getting bolder in their public comments about where they think prices are headed. On Thursday, Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, said he thought prices would remain at $40 to $50 a barrel in 2005. His remarks echoed a similar message from the last meeting of OPEC ministers, in January, when many said prices of $50 a barrel were not hurting the world economy.
 Acknowledging such sentiments, Mr. Purnomo cautioned that OPEC ministers would not necessarily agree to increase production at their next meeting, on March 16 in Isfahan, Iran. International oil demand tends to drop each spring, he said, and OPEC oil ministers will be wary of adjusting supply before seeing how big this year's drop may be.
 Mr. Purnomo said he personally would like to see a drop in Indonesian crude oil prices by late spring to $35 a barrel, the price assumed in the national budget for calculating the cost of domestic gasoline and diesel subsidies. Indonesian crude trades at a slight discount to the much more heavily traded West Texas Intermediate and Brent crudes. In New York, crude oil futures for April delivery rose 10 cents to $51.49 a barrel. Prices have risen 44 percent in the last year.
 The increase in retail prices of gasoline and diesel in Indonesia is aimed at cutting the high cost of subsidizing domestic consumption and freeing more oil for export. Gasoline now costs 75 cents a gallon in Indonesia, while diesel costs 68 cents. Last year, the government spent $6.8 billion on subsidies, a seventh of all government spending. Mr. Purnomo's comments, made in a 45-minute interview in his high-ceilinged, elegant receiving room, are nonetheless important both in terms of a rare willingness to speak so publicly about Indonesia's position and his assessment of the consensus among other oil ministers.
 Current world oil prices, Mr. Purnomo said, are so high they are starting to feed inflation in industrialized countries, driving up the cost of construction equipment and other capital goods oil exporters need to buy overseas. The Indonesian government announced plans last month for huge spending increases for roads, pipelines and other infrastructure projects, including $11 billion for energy-related projects.
 OPEC ministers are not likely to adopt a new target range for oil prices, as this is a step that still requires considerable study, he said. OPEC set a price range, or band, of $22 to $28 a barrel in 2000 but abandoned it on Jan. 30 at the meeting in Vienna.
 A panel of top OPEC officials led by Saudi Arabia is studying whether to introduce a new price range, but this is unlikely to produce any specific action soon, Mr. Purnomo said. ''OPEC now is removing the price band for the time being.''
 Mr. Purnomo predicted that the increases in fuel prices could result in street demonstrations, but said that the government would not retreat.
 While government officials have said they would increase prices 30 percent to 40 percent, Mr. Purnomo is the first to specify a day for the announcement and the first minister to specify the amount. He said the 29 percent increase was ''an arithmetic average'' of increases for various grades of gasoline and diesel, and declined to give specific increases by refined product.
 The proceeds from higher prices will be used for schools, hospitals and poverty programs, he said.
 Prices for kerosene, now at a quarter of world levels here, will not be changed for political reasons, he said. The poor commonly use kerosene for cooking.
 Mr. Purnomo said he had just received a preliminary report from an international oil company suggesting the discovery of a major new oil field in Indonesia. Declining to say what oil company had made the find or where the field was located, Mr. Purnomo said the new field looked as though it could be similar in size to the large Cepu field in eastern Java that Exxon Mobil wants to develop.
 Mr. Purnomo said two wells had already struck oil and had found an underground reservoir of oil roughly 300 meters thick, or 1,000 feet. More wells need to be drilled to assess the geographical area that the reservoir underlies, he said.
 Exxon Mobil estimates that the Cepu field could produce 170,000 barrels a day, which would increase Indonesian oil production by a fifth.
 Exxon Mobil has been unable to begin production at Cepu for the last three years because of a dispute with the Indonesian government over how to share the revenue from the field. Maman Budiman, the vice president for planning, commercial and public affairs at Exxon Mobil Oil Indonesia, said in an interview here on Wednesday that the company asked the newly elected government of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in December to open negotiations after a preliminary deal fell through last summer, but had received no reply.
 Mr. Purnomo said that he personally wanted to see Cepu go into production as quickly as possible, but that the issue was up to Pertamina, the government-owned oil company, and the ministry of state-owned enterprises.
 Mr. Purnomo made headlines on Feb. 6 when he told a parliamentary committee that he would form a team to review whether Indonesia should pull out of OPEC, a move advocated by populists here so as to save Indonesia's nearly $2 million in annual dues. OPEC officials in Vienna declined this week to comment on Indonesia's review. While Mr. Purnomo indicated a reluctance to pull out of OPEC, he noted that the final decision would have to be made by the Indonesian cabinet.
 But in Friday's interview, the first he has granted to domestic or international media since that statement, Mr. Purnomo said that Indonesia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs opposed any withdrawal because it would hurt relations with Indonesian allies in the Mideast. Some in the government also feel that as one of the oldest members of OPEC, Indonesia should be wary of withdrawing.
 Perhaps most important, it is not clear that Indonesia will lose its status as an oil exporter, Mr. Purnomo said. Recent discoveries should add 300,000 barrels a day to Indonesia's annual production over the next several years, offsetting declines of 16 percent a year from existing Indonesian oil fields and permitting the country to maintain overall production above a million barrels a day in the coming years, he said.
 By comparison, output dipped to 950,000 barrels a day in December, a level Mr. Purnomo ascribed to some fields temporarily closing or reducing output for a variety of reasons.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Purnomo Yusgiantoro is the Indonesian minister of energy resources. (Photo by Ronald Zak/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Indonesia's standing within OPEC has been changing as the nation's oil production declines and domestic consumption grows. At Pertamina, the government-owned oil company, the level in a tank is monitored. (Photo by Bagus Indahono/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MINING OUTPUT (76%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); CONSUMPTION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (57%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (50%) INDONESIA (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



560 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Ideology and AIDS

 BODY:
The Bush administration has contributed to suffering and death through the so-called global gag rule, which prohibits Washington from giving money to any group that performs -- or even talks about -- abortions. Organizations that provide desperately needed family planning and women's health services have lost their financing. Now there are moves in Congress and inside the administration to apply a similar rule to needle-exchange programs. That would be an even more deadly mistake.
 Allowing drug users to trade used needles for clean ones gets dangerous needles off the street and minimizes needle sharing. A proven weapon against AIDS transmission, it has not been shown to increase drug use, and may indeed reduce drug addiction by providing a way to talk to drug users and lead them to treatment. It is endorsed by virtually every mainstream public health group. 
 Getting users into drug treatment is the best way to keep them safe. But the push for treatment -- which is expensive and difficult -- should come with needle exchanges.
 Drug use is not a significant source of AIDS infection in Africa. In parts of Asia, the former Soviet bloc and Eastern Europe, needles are the major source of infection; three-quarters of all newly infected people in Russia are intravenous drug abusers, as are half of those newly infected in China. These are just the places where the AIDS epidemic is likely to explode next. A bumper poppy crop in Afghanistan will worsen the outlook, producing cheap heroin that could turn opium smokers into heroin injectors and thus fuel the epidemic.
 Opponents of needle exchanges, mainly among the religious right, argue that the practice muddies the message that illegal drug use is unacceptable, and keeps drug abusers from suffering the consequences of their addiction. By this twisted logic, doctors should refuse to treat lung cancer in smokers. In any case, AIDS infections from sharing needles are not limited to drug users. They infect sexual partners, spreading the epidemic through societies.
 While Washington does not buy syringes for needle-exchange programs, it does give money to groups that use other people's money to administer needle exchanges. But some conservatives are attempting to stop even that. The assistant secretary of state for international narcotics and law enforcement, Robert Charles, warned the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, which currently holds the rotating chairmanship of the joint program Unaids, that the organization should not work on needle-exchange issues and should remove positive references to them from its Web site, which it did.
 Representatives Mark Souder of Indiana and Tom Davis of Virginia, both Republicans, have asked the United States Agency for International Development for details on all financing for programs in which any group strongly advocating needle exchanges also participates. These lawmakers claim that a United Nations' drug agency report attacks needle exchanges as encouraging drug use. In fact, the report makes no such accusation and endorses needle exchanges. 
 In the Senate, a member of the staff of Sam Brownback, the Kansas Republican, has compiled a grossly inaccurate chart of programs financed by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria that is subtitled ''Immoral, Illegal (with bilateral funds) or Inconsistent with U.S. Foreign Policy.'' Needle exchanges rank high. At the moment, Mr. Brownback's office says he does not intend to attempt to block these programs. But some newer right-wing lawmakers are considering it.
 So far, attempts to eliminate needle-exchange programs overseas seem to have limited support. Many administration officials and conservatives in Congress do not want to see crucial AIDS prevention measures derailed or American support withdrawn from such organizations as the Global Fund. One important test will be what the administration does in early March at the annual meeting of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Last year, United States representatives there attacked the scientific evidence in favor of needle exchanges as unconvincing. This year, the United States should refrain from such attacks -- and members of Congress should call off their budding witch hunt. 
 Washington's antipathy toward needle exchanges is a triumph of ideology over science, logic and compassion. The United States should help pay for these important programs. If it cannot bring itself to do so, it should at least allow the rest of the world to get on with saving millions of lives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); HEROIN (89%); AIDS POLICY (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SMOKING (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); OPIUM (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CANCER (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); LUNG CANCER (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TOM DAVIS (58%); MARK E SOUDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); AFGHANISTAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



561 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 371 words

PERSON: Israel Stollman

HEADLINE: Israel Stollman, 82, Planning Group Chief

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Israel Stollman, an urban planner and former executive director of the American Planning Association in Washington, died on Feb. 2 in Christchurch, New Zealand, where he was on a family visit. He was 82 and lived in Washington.
 The association, announcing the death, said it resulted from a fall. 
 Mr. Stollman directed the association from 1978 to 1993, after which he remained a consultant. In 1978 he oversaw the merger of the old American Society of Planning Officials, of which he then was executive director, and the American Institute of Planners to form what became the American Planning Association.
 It brought together professionals in all aspects of planning, public and private. It functions as a clearinghouse and assists planners with research, workshops, conferences and publications. During his tenure, its national membership grew to 28,000 from 18,000; it now lists more than 32,000. 
 Israel Stollman was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and graduated in social science from City College in 1947, after wartime service in the Army Air Corps. He received a master's in urban planning in 1948 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a thesis defending the fabric of life in Greenwich Village.
 He started with the Cleveland Planning Commission, working on the city's capital improvement and urban renewal programs. In 1951 he moved to Youngstown, Ohio, where he was assistant planning director and, later, planning director until 1958. 
 He then joined the faculty of Ohio State University and helped organize a graduate program in city and regional planning, serving as its chairman until 1968, when he was asked to head the American Society of Planning Officials.
 Mr. Stollman was credited with bringing African-Americans onto its all-white board and recruiting minority members into the planning profession. He also spent several years in the 1970's preparing for the formation of the American Planning Association.
 Mr. Stollman is survived by his wife of 51 years, Mary Callahan Stollman; three daughters, Sarah Stollman, of Sydney, Australia; Sasha Stollman, of Christchurch; and Katharine Sexton, of Washington; and two grandchildren. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Feb. 26 about Israel Stollman, former executive director of the American Planning Association, misstated his age. He was 81, not 82.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); ARMIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



562 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Togo Ruler, Succumbing To Pressure, Steps Down

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
Three weeks after the military installed him to succeed his father as Togo's president, Faure Gnassingbe bowed to intense international pressure on Friday, saying in an address on state-controlled radio that he would step down immediately. 
 ''I have decided to step down from the office of president in the interest of Togo,'' Mr. Gnassingbe said. 
 He will be replaced by Abass Bonfo, a member of Parliament who was chosen Friday night in a special session to become interim president and oversee elections within 60 days.
 Mr. Gnassingbe will still be a candidate in that vote, and he said Friday that he was stepping down in order to ''guarantee transparency and offer equal chance to all the other candidates.'' 
 He departed after three weeks of turmoil set off by the death on Feb. 5 of President Gnassingbe Eyadema, the former army officer who ruled this tiny West African nation for 38 years with an authoritarian hand. 
 The military, dominated by Mr. Eyadema's Kayibe tribe, immediately installed Mr. Gnassingbe, 39, ignoring a constitutional rule of succession that called for the leader of the Parliament to become interim president and for elections.
 Despite Togo's small size -- it is about half the size of New York State -- and relative obscurity, the crisis there drew widespread attention and condemnation, most vociferously from Togo's African neighbors. 
 Nations that had once turned a blind eye to despotic and corrupt governments demanded that Togo's new ruler obey the country's Constitution or risk complete isolation. Ecowas, a regional economic group, cut Togo off, and the African Union voted Friday to apply even stiffer sanctions. 
 The crisis in Togo was seen as a test of Africa's commitment to upholding democratic principles on a continent stifled for decades under despotic misrule. 
 Within Togo, opposition parties that had pressed for weeks for Mr. Gnassingbe to go, holding street demonstrations in the face of violent crackdowns by government forces that left several people dead, said his resignation was a victory for democracy on the entire continent. 
 ''We can be very proud of Africa today,'' said Jean-Pierre Fabre, secretary general of United Forces for Change, the main opposition party. ''Democracy and constitutional rule have triumphed over dictatorship.''
 Togo holds a unique place in African history: it was among the first French colonies to achieve independence, in 1960, and was the first to suffer a post-independence coup, in 1963. 
 Mr. Eyadema was among the main plotters, and he took complete power in 1967. At his death, he was Africa's longest-serving ruler, second in the world only to Fidel Castro for duration in power. 
 Though Mr. Gnassingbe's move seemed to clear the way for fairer elections, some of the candidacy rules are still at issue. 
 Mr. Fabre said that despite the opposition parties' insistence on returning to constitutional rule, Togo's Constitution is flawed because it was amended to bar people who live outside the country from running for office, a clause seen by many as a way to bar popular exiles from being candidates. 
 The most prominent opposition figure, Gilchrist Olympio, is the son of Togo's first president, and he has lived for years in exile in France. 
 ''This Constitution cannot give us a true election,'' Mr. Fabre said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); COUPS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); HISTORY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TOGO (99%); AFRICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); SENEGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



563 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Poor-Mouthing French Official Falls, Tripped by Luxury Home

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
Finance Minister Herve Gaymard resigned on Friday after 12 weeks on the job, felled by revelations that he and his family were living in an $18,470-a-month luxury apartment in Paris paid for by the state.
 ''I am aware of having committed blunders and in the first place a serious error of judgment concerning the condition of my official residence,'' Mr. Gaymard said in a statement, reiterating his pledge to pay the cost of a government renovation and other expenses. He added that he did not want the office entrusted to him ''to be damaged because of me.'' 
 On Friday night, President Jacques Chirac named Thierry Breton, the chief executive of France Telecom and one of the country's highest-profile executives, as the new finance minister. His appointment makes him the fourth finance minister for France in less than a year.
 Mr. Gaymard, 44, and his wife, Clara, 45, France's ambassador at large to attract foreign investment, broke no laws in choosing a 6,500-square-foot duplex apartment close to Elysee Palace that would accommodate them and their eight children.
 The French government traditionally provides free housing for ministers in their ministries or other state-owned buildings or in rental apartments. The defense, interior and foreign ministers and their families, for example, live in apartments in their ministries.
 But revelations about the cost of the Gaymards' apartment, first disclosed nine days ago in the investigative weekly newspaper Le Canard Enchaine, coupled with Mr. Gaymard's less than truthful explanations, spiraled into a political scandal that was deeply embarrassing to Mr. Chirac's center-right government.
 Whether Mrs. Gaymard, who was traveling in the United States and could not be reached for comment, would resign from her job was unclear. Reached by Agence France-Presse in Los Angeles, Mrs. Gaymard said: ''We were wrong. That's sure.'' She added that they had chosen the apartment quickly because they were so pressed for time, but that in retrospect, ''we should have asked questions.''
 Paris is suffering from a severe housing shortage and skyrocketing prices for both renters and buyers. The monthly cost of the Gaymards' apartment is the equivalent of the annual minimum wage for a worker in France. So there was little public sympathy for what was perceived as extravagance and hypocrisy by the man who is supposed to be the country's champion of public spending cuts.
 In his first major news conference as finance minister on Feb. 8, Mr. Gaymard said that unless the government reined in spending, ''we're going to hit the wall.'' On a talk show a few days later, he said, ''We need to detox ourselves from public spending.''
 France, Europe's third-largest economy, is reeling from a public deficit that violates European Union rules, 10 percent unemployment (a five-year high) and public distrust of government manifested in street protests over its economic reforms.
 It was Mr. Gaymard's loyalty to Mr. Chirac that catapulted him from agriculture minister to finance minister after Nicolas Sarkozy, a presidential hopeful, resigned the post last November. With his smooth, nonconfrontational approach, Mr. Gaymard had been confident he would survive. He told the newspaper Le Figaro in an interview published on Thursday that he enjoyed the confidence of Mr. Chirac and his government.
 Even in his brief statement Friday, Mr. Gaymard sought to defend himself. ''I have put an end, without delay, to this situation and will take full responsibility for the financial consequences,'' he said. ''Despite this, my family has suffered serious harassment in the past few days.''
 Earlier, he had said that as someone who worked ''120 hours a week,'' he had not had the time to check on the amount of the rent for the apartment. Indeed, as additional details about the cost of the Gaymards' apartment spilled out, the cries in the press and among the government's political opponents for Mr. Gaymard's resignation grew louder.
 Besides the rent, there was $3,300 a month for maintenance and three parking spaces, $42,000 to renovate the apartment and the parking area, and $16,000 for real estate fees. 
 Particularly unsettling for many of Mr. Gaymard's critics was his contention in a magazine interview that if he had been the son of rich bourgeois and not of a shoe repairman, there never would have been a problem because he would own his own apartment. It turns out that Mr. Gaymard owns a 2,150-square-foot apartment on Boulevard St.-Michel in the heart of the Latin Quarter that he rents out for $3,000 a month.
 On Friday, the left-leaning daily Liberation reported that the minister's properties also included two small apartments, a house in the Savoy region that he inherited and another house in Brittany that he bought last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (79%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); POLITICS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INWARD INVESTMENT (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (93%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (53%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (93%); FTE (NYSE) (93%); FTE (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



564 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Amid Uproar, Harvard Head Ponders Style

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY and SARA RIMER

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 25 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton recently advised him to learn from his mistakes and move forward. The political counselor David Gergen has helped on damage control. Surrounded by the best minds of Harvard, he has turned for guidance to the government professor Theda Skocpol, the social ethicist Mahzarin Banaji and the campus wise man Henry Rosovsky, among others.
 He is reading tomes about leadership. He also recently took his children to see ''Hitch,'' a new movie, as it happens, about men who are trying to improve their social skills. 
 At the age of 50, Lawrence H. Summers, the 27th president of Harvard since its founding in 1636, finds himself trying to become a new kind of man as he seeks an end to a controversy centering on his leadership style. 
 ''The days have been long, and the weeks have been long, too, because there's a lot to talk about,'' Dr. Summers said, sitting beside a fireplace on Friday in his office at Harvard. ''I've spent a lot of time here talking to people, I've been out meeting people, I've talked to people in my home, I've spent a lot of time on the phone and I've spent a lot of time on e-mail. It certainly has not been a lonely month.''
 During much of the interview, Dr. Summers's voice was controlled, and his hands were occasionally thrust deep into his suit pockets. ''I think I do have a tendency to challenging dialogue in the way of a graduate seminar,'' he said. ''It's probably both a strength and a weakness, depending on the context. But there are also very much issues of relationships. That's why the things you work through with people, you don't work them through overnight, but you work them through with a lot of discussion and dialogue.''
 Some members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard's largest college, remain furious after his comments last month about women's lack of success in math and science careers set off a broader crisis in confidence about his choice of words, his treatment of colleagues and their perception that he lacks respect for the faculty. 
 They confronted him angrily at one tumultuous meeting this month, and a few who are his most ferocious critics are trying to schedule a vote of no confidence for the next faculty gathering, on March 15. (No one expects the vote to go anywhere.) 
 But Dr. Summers sounded on Friday like a man planning to stay at Harvard, and succeed, for many years to come. Asked how he would regain momentum for his agenda, he listed a range of goals for five minutes like planning new buildings, working with the faculty on new undergraduate curriculums and supporting financial aid for students from low- and modest-income homes.
 ''I'm actually glad that concerns and anger that clearly were felt are now in the open and are now things we can discuss,'' Dr. Summers said. ''I'm learning from all of this, and thinking about all of it, and I suspect I'll be a better president for all these discussions.''
 At no point, Dr. Summers said, has he felt that his position was in jeopardy with Harvard's governing corporation, a board of seven people, including himself and three others he has helped appoint since becoming president in July 2001. 
 Indeed, he has drawn strong support from its members, including his mentor, Robert E. Rubin, the former treasury secretary whom Dr. Summers helped coax into the corporation.
 Mr. Rubin did not return phone messages seeking comment, but friends of Dr. Summers say the two men have been in regular contact. The Harvard president, an economist who also is a former treasury secretary, said he had spoken once with his and Mr. Rubin's former boss, Mr. Clinton, during the controversy.
 ''He gave me good advice, which was, it's very important to look forward, learn from your mistakes and recognize the opportunities that they provide,'' Dr. Summers said. ''Certainly we're going to be working very hard.
 ''The intensity of the focus on advancing women is something different, is very high. I think that's going to add energy and enable us to do some important things more rapidly than we otherwise would have.''
 In recent weeks, Dr. Summers has been turning to a cast of so-called Hitches, the name of the movie character played by Will Smith, who plays a personal dating coach helping awkward men reveal their lovable inner selves to beautiful women who then fall in love with them. (Asked in the interview whether he had drawn any parallels between Mr. Smith's clients and himself as a university president needing help in changing aspects of his style, Dr. Summers smiled tightly. ''I suppose that analogy's there, but I confess it didn't occur to me,'' he said.)
 One coach is Mr. Gergen, an adviser to four presidents who is a professor of public service at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.
 ''This experience has not been without personal pain,'' Mr. Gergen said of Dr. Summers's ordeal, adding that ''it's a good thing when a male demonstrates vulnerability.'' ''He takes a very Socratic approach,'' Mr. Gergen said, referring to Dr. Summers's customary method of intellectually engaging others through probing, even combative, questioning and challenging.
 It was this method, perhaps, that was on display at a conference last month when Dr. Summers suggested that ''intrinsic aptitude'' might be one explanation for women's relative lack of success in math and science careers. Many women scientists and other academics at Harvard and around the country were furious.
 Mr. Gergen said: ''Socrates was ultimately put to death. People couldn't deal with the hard questions all the time. History tells us that this approach can be jolting.''
 The long-term challenge facing Dr. Summers is ''to rebuild his presidency,'' Mr. Gergen added. ''To put it in political terms, the second campaign began Wednesday morning.'' He was referring to the morning after the emergency faculty meeting on Tuesday where professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences continued to discuss problems with Dr. Summers's style, but with less fury than the meeting the previous week. 
 Still, there are clear signs of strain. A copy of The Harvard Crimson from Friday on a table outside Dr. Summers's office had a front-page headline reading, ''Two Senior Professors Consider Leaving -- Controversy Spurs Rival Schools to Recruit Faculty.'' (One of the two, Caroline Hoxby, is the lone African-American woman with tenure in economics at the university.)
 Meanwhile, questions abound about whether Dr. Summers can successfully lead Harvard's next big capital campaign, which is expected to start in the next few years and aim for at least a record $4 billion while also planning a huge new campus across the Charles River in Allston.
 ''To some extent, this controversy has put Harvard in a lose-lose situation,'' said Sidney Verba, a senior professor of government and director of the university library, who is sympathetic to Dr. Summers. ''I think it would be a bad idea, and we would lose a lot, if Larry were to resign now or forced out. On the other hand, there are clear downsides right now, because he is damaged, and people are so upset, and the way forward is unclear. I think everyone is really concerned about that.''
 Dr. Howard Gardner, a professor of cognition in the Education School, said Friday that Harvard presidents had traditionally embodied and reflected ''a basic civility'' that energized the faculty and staff and helped make the university a special place.
 ''Under Summers, this civility has been strained to the breaking point and will be difficult to repair,'' said Dr. Gardner, who described himself as an admirer of the president's intellect and vision. ''Larry Summers has taken advantage of and, perhaps, benefited too much from this underlying and pervasive civility.''
 ''How many more university-straining episodes are needed before the tipping point is reached?'' Dr. Gardner asked. 
 Dr. Summers said he did not feel that his presidency was weakened or that faculty members now had him over a barrel. Asked whether he thought any of his critics had been unfair to him, he struck a conciliatory note while also saying he would not roll over and accept any and all attacks.
 ''I think it's very important for people to really feel free to express whatever views they have. That doesn't mean that I agree with everything that was said,'' Dr. Summers said. Of the criticisms lodged against him, which included intimidating and humiliating behavior, he added, ''There was some that was said that I'm sure was right, there was some that was said that I don't agree with, there are some things that were said that I hope aren't true.''
 Yet he made clear again and again that he was looking to show his best, most inviting side to his critics. 
 When a reporter asked if Dr. Summers would take another question right after a photographer asked him to hold a pose, he replied, ''As long as you don't write that the unsocialized Summers didn't look at the reporter as she asked a question.''
 Which job was harder, he was asked, secretary of the treasury or president of Harvard?
 ''They both have moments when they can feel almost impossible,'' Dr. Summers said. ''I had some tough moments in Washington, but this has a certain uniqueness.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Lawrence H. Summers in his office at Harvard yesterday. ''The days have been long,'' he said, ''and the weeks have been long, too.'' (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ETHICS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



565 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Rice Calls Off Mideast Visit After Arrest Of Egyptian

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Friday abruptly called off a planned trip to several Middle Eastern countries that had been scheduled for next week, a decision that came apparently because of the arrest of a leading Egyptian opposition politician last month.
 The decision highlighted a rift with an important ally over President Bush's push for democratic change. It came a day after Mr. Bush's tense meeting with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, who was clearly uncomfortable with Mr. Bush's criticism of Russia's democracy. 
 The linchpin for Ms. Rice's trip had been a planned meeting in Cairo of foreign ministers for the Group of 8 industrial nations and the Arab League to discuss economic aid and democratic change in the Middle East.
 But that meeting was postponed by Egypt on Sunday in an early sign of the tensions that have been building even as the Bush administration has praised Egypt for its help in the Israeli-Palestinian mediation after Yasir Arafat's death.
 The immediate trigger for the tensions was the arrest on Jan. 28 of Ayman Nour, a member of Egypt's largely powerless Parliament and head of an opposition party called Al Ghad, or Tomorrow. When Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit visited Washington last week, Ms. Rice made her displeasure clear, officials said.
 After the meeting, Mr. Gheit protested that Mr. Nour's arrest was an internal Egyptian matter, and Suleiman Awad, the spokesman for President Hosni Mubarak, said he rejected ''any foreign interference in Egypt's internal affairs.'' 
 Some members of Congress then began urging Ms. Rice not to attend the meeting of Arab and Group of 8 nations in Cairo. One of them, Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat who is on the Middle East subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, co-sponsored a resolution condemning Egypt for arresting Mr. Nour. 
 ''To attend a conference on democracy in Egypt right now would be the height of irony,'' Mr. Schiff said in an interview on Friday. ''The State Department must send the message to Egypt that it is on the wrong track, that we are no longer willing to overlook these things.''
 In Cairo on Friday, Mr. Nour's wife told Reuters that her husband, who is still in detention, was in the third day of a hunger strike.
 The State Department began suggesting last week that Ms. Rice might not attend the conference. As an apparent result, Egypt announced on Sunday that it was postponing the meeting. Mr. Gheit said Egypt wanted to delay it until after an Arab summit conference planned for late next month in Algiers. No date has been set for the new Arab League and Group of 8 meeting.
 Even after the postponement, Ms. Rice still tentatively planned to visit the Middle East, and a pro-government Egyptian newspaper reported on Friday that she would be in Cairo next week.
 But an administration official said some officials were having second thoughts about visiting Egypt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (56%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ADAM B SCHIFF (57%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005



566 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: Six Figures? Not Enough!

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
MAUREEN SPILLANE, an executive at a shoe and handbag maker in New York, always thought a $100,000 salary equaled serious success. Like many professional people, however, when she finally broke the barrier, she was a bit deflated to learn that it was hardly salvation. It still took her several years of ''hoarding away'' and avoiding standard Manhattan indulgences -- fancy food, fancy clothing -- in order to afford a down payment on a one-bedroom fixer-upper on the Upper West Side. 
 ''It's not the big shiny number that you think about when you first get out of college,'' said Ms. Spillane, who is in her mid-30's. ''Don't get me wrong, I'm making a nice living, I enjoy what I do. I'm certainly in a better position than a lot of people.''
 ''But Melania and I don't shop in the same places, let me tell you,'' she said, referring to the latest Mrs. Trump, Melania Knauss. ''I'm not jetting off to the Bahamas.'' 
 There was a time not long ago when earning six figures was a significant milestone among upwardly mobile professionals. If you were young and single in one of the nation's big cities, you could live in a building with a doorman, drive a European car, eat at fine restaurants and vacation in Jackson Hole. For married people it meant a suburban home and college savings accounts for the children. 
 Beyond the lifestyle, $100,000 was a psychic achievement; it meant joining the meritocratic elite. The prospect of ''six figures'' kept white-collar workers toiling for 20 years, confident that hard work would be rewarded and that the American social contract was securely in place. 
 Certainly $100,000, which is more than twice the national median household income of $43,527, is still a princely wage in most of the country, placing you in the top 5.2 percent of American wage earners with full-time jobs, according to the 2000 census. Even in New York City, only 7.5 percent of full-time workers make that much. But $100,000 isn't what it used to be. It has been devalued, in the practical sense by inflation and psychologically because it is now a relatively common salary for newcomers in fields like law and banking. For today's executive strivers in the more affluent cities, there is a new grail: $200,000. 
 ''It's the new black,'' said Bill Coleman, senior vice president in charge of compensation at Salary.com, an online career service based in Needham, Mass., that tracks executive pay. ''There's a lot of bunching between $100,000 and $150,000. That's the vast majority of the people who used to aspire to $100,000. Now they are aspiring to $200,000 or $250,000.''
 ''It's the players,'' he added, echoing a common sentiment, ''who make $200,000.''
 While a salary of $100,000 is still ''rarefied,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington in charge of its living standards program, in many regions ''it's not uncommon for households in that range to feel pinched.'' 
 Housing in cities like New York, Boston and San Francisco can cost three or four times that of the national median, Mr. Bernstein said, to say nothing of the escalating prices of big-ticket items like education and health care.
 ''There are certainly cities in this country where it takes an income of a couple of hundred thousand dollars to start to genuinely feel affluent,'' he said.
 Not for nothing did Senator John Kerry propose rolling back tax cuts during the presidential debates on those earning more than $200,000, symbolic of ''the rich.'' Not for nothing did the Nestle candy company change the name some years back of its $100,000 bar. It is now the 100 Grand bar. It seems $100,000 doesn't summon the old magic. 
 Passing the $200,000 threshold these days appears to be a ticket to the good life much in the same way that crossing the hallowed $100,000 barrier was during the prime yuppie years of the 1980's. About 1.9 million tax filers (or less than 2 percent) reported gross adjusted incomes between $200,000 and $500,000 in 2002, the last year for which the Internal Revenue Service has compiled statistics. The year a similar percent of tax filers had incomes between $100,000 and $200,000 was in 1987. 
 In the 1985 film "Lost in America," Albert Brooks's character was able to build up a big enough nest egg as a $100,000-a-year advertising executive that he could abandon the white-collar life before he turned 40 to travel the country in a luxury motor home with his wife.
 ''Twenty years ago a person would have thought that if they were making $100,000 they were rolling in the dough,'' said Karen Ramsey, a certified financial planner in Seattle. Now, she said, clients ''will be making $100,000, $120,000, and they'll be looking at me and saying: 'We're just getting our kids through school. If we have any left over for a vacation, we're lucky.'''
 Adjusted for cost-of-living inflation in the New York metropolitan region, a $100,000 income in 1987 would be worth about $170,000 today. And yet it still seems that another $30,000 or more is needed to be a ''player.'' Part of the explanation may be the almost perverse escalation in the price of commodities favored by upwardly mobile professionals: whether $170 Diesel jeans, which have replaced $30 Levis; $3.95 lattes from Starbucks versus 25-cent coffee from a deli; or the must-have $449 iPod that supplanted the must-have $75 Sony Walkman of the Reagan years.
 When Patricia Belden, a 39-year-old developer of affordable housing in Boston, was a student at Cornell University in the mid-80's, she dreamed of a six-figure income. ''I would be satisfied with the life that would buy,'' she recalled thinking. Ms. Belden passed that milestone and is not complaining. But when she and her husband, a violin maker, recently shopped for a home in Boston for themselves and their newborn son, they settled for a loft in the city's trendy South End. 
 Sounds chic, Ms. Belden allowed, except the family has subdivided a space the size of a large studio into a three-bedroom apartment, what she calls ''a ranch house in the sky.''
 The couple's big extravagance was a permanent parking space for $20,000. ''My father told me, 'Honey, don't worry, we paid $20,000 for our first parking space,''' Ms. Belden said. ''But it came with a house and a garage.''
 Compensation experts said the expectations of many white-collar workers were turbocharged in the late 1990's, during the long run-up in the stock market and the high-tech boom.
 ''Only in the latter half of the 90's did starting salaries break $100,000 a year,'' explained Hussam Hamadeh, a co-founder of Vault.com Inc., a Web-based career services company. ''At that point $100,000 stopped being an eye-popping salary and started to become routine. After all, if 'everyone you know' is making at least $100,000 a year, there's nothing very exceptional about it.''
 By the time professionals in certain high-earning fields are in their mid- or late 30's, they're at least within striking range of the new $200,000 goal. A senior creative executive at a major New York ad agency, for example, earns about $170,000, according to salary statistics compiled by Vault. 
 A senior vice president at a major public relations firm typically earns up to $160,000, with perhaps another $15,000 in bonuses. In the high-technology field the majority of ''e-commerce marketing directors'' surveyed by Salary.com earned $120,000 to $150,000 in total cash compensation. The top quarter, however, earned an average of $204,800. 
 The legal profession is perhaps the most clear-cut example of changing expectations due to changing pay scales. ''There was a time when if you were making $100,000, you were a partner, and that wasn't that long ago,'' explained Jon Lindsey, a managing partner of Major, Hagen & Africa, a national legal recruiting firm. ''In New York they now look at $100,000 as a living wage, but not much more.''
 Last year the median base salary for first-year associates at firms with more than 501 lawyers was $120,000, moving up to $185,000 for eighth-year associates, according to figures from the National Association for Law Placement.
 Noble Black, 29, hardly considers himself living it up. He earned his law degree from the University of Virginia a few years ago, moved to New York and took a job in securities law in the Manhattan office of the firm McKee Nelson. His starting salary, he said, was $135,000. 
 ''You think you're going to be making all this money, but it all goes so quickly,'' said Mr. Black, who left after a few years to work as a consultant to the television show ''The Apprentice'' (and is now an associate real estate broker for the Corcoran Group in New York).
 Mr. Black didn't find much sympathy from his family back in Mississippi, where $100,000 is still a country club income. ''You go home and tell them how much you're making, and they think you're doing so well, but then you tell them about the rent,'' he said, recalling the $4,650 monthly rent for the apartment he shared with a friend in Symphony House, near Columbus Circle.
 It was only when his annual compensation began to approach the new affluence threshold that he began to feel he was building real equity. ''A couple of years making close to $200,000 puts you into that good place,'' Mr. Black said.
 Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell said: ''A lot of people think this is about spoiled people who can't keep up with the Joneses, but it's really deeper than that. There's a consumption standard that every group has. If you ask, 'How am I doing?,' it's always, 'Compared to what?' And people hardly ever look down.''
 If they did, it might seem a bit odd to see a number they had spent much of their lives staring up at longingly. Then again, Mr. Coleman of Salary.com is not sure people will ever quite strive for the $200,000 life in quite the specific way they dreamed of a $100,000 one. The latter ''is a natural milestone,'' he said. ''It's a power of 10.''
 ''One hundred thousand is magical because it is 100 -- 100 is perfect, remember when you're in school?'' he said.
 The real point, perhaps, is the dreaming itself, the sense among many professionals that there needs to be some light flickering on the horizon to get you through the long hours and the stress of a career. In that sense, Mr. Coleman said, the dream salary of today is the same as it's always been. ''It's beyond reasonable expectation,'' he said, ''but not beyond hope.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by David G. Klein)(pg. 1, 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (69%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); MARRIAGE (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%); HANDBAG & PURSE MFG (58%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SALARY.COM INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



567 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: The Alpha Currency? It's Still the Dollar

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
FEARS that the dollar could go into a free fall because of big budget and trade deficits are overblown, says Henry Kaufman, known for his longtime work as an economist at Salomon Brothers, where he was often bearish about American economic prospects. Now 77, he is an independent consultant and is on the board of Lehman Brothers. Here are excerpts from a recent conversation:

Q. As someone who has been bearish in general, why are you positive about the dollar?

A. ''Positive'' is a little bit of an overstatement. I believe the dollar will remain the key reserve currency for the foreseeable future. The United States is the dominant world power, and with world power goes leadership of the currency. If you go back to the British Empire or the Dutch or the Spanish, you'll find that world power also means a dominant currency.
 We have an economy that is performing far, far better than the other industrialized countries. Therefore, profits here are better than they are in most places around the world. Our interest rates are competitive.

Q. But the Bush administration, despite some statements to the contrary, seems intent on expanding government deficits. Isn't that sending a bad signal?

A. The immediate issue is, ''Who is going to finance the American budget deficit?'' Let me give you a couple of numbers. Japan will continue to buy about $200 billion of U.S. government debt a year. They have a large export surplus to the United States. China, which also has a large surplus, will also probably buy about $100 billion.
 Thirdly, the Federal Reserve is a buyer for monetary reasons, and that will account for $50 billion to $75 billion. Lastly, other buyers have emerged over the past year, namely some of the oil-producing countries. The price of oil has increased very dramatically. That money cannot readily be spent by producers such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Therefore, you have to put them in for $50 billion to $75 billion of purchases of American securities. So there isn't very much left for the time being for domestic investors to finance.

Q. But it appears there is a deeply felt sense in the administration that a cheap dollar will spur American economic growth and reduce the debt to the rest of the world.

A. If it becomes an outspoken approach by the administration, that would be quite dangerous. Talking down your own currency when you're the key reserve currency and when you are dependent on foreign sources of money would ultimately create problems. The secretary of the Treasury, as well as the president, should always articulate that ''we are in favor of a stable currency.'' They should never even whisper the idea that ''if the dollar goes down, that's all right with us.''

Q. What do you think of the quotation attributed to Vice President Dick Cheney that ''Reagan proved deficits don't matter''?

A. That is an incorrect observation by the vice president. Deficits do matter over the long term. There are times in the business cycle in which the U.S. Treasury competes very heavily against the private sector. When that occurs, it escalates interest rates. It puts pressure on inflation. It's a dangerous approach.

Q. In its heart of hearts, do you think the Bush administration agrees with you?

A. I think a number of people in the administration probably believe so. I believe a number of people in the Federal Reserve believe so. But whether the inner sanctum of the administration will say that a stable dollar is a key consideration, that may be questionable. We are just in a fortuitous situation today, meaning this year and probably next year, in which the size of the budget deficit doesn't matter for the immediate future. But ongoing budget deficits of this order of magnitude over time will matter.

Q. A Chinese official was quoted as saying that his government was not happy with the dollar's weakness. Do you think the Chinese or Japanese could shift their holdings elsewhere?

A. I doubt that very much. Both China and Japan are big exporters to the United States. I believe that the Chinese and Japanese, down deep, realize that if they shifted from the American dollar to the euro, it would endanger their export drive to the United States.

Q. So what is your prognosis for the dollar?

A. I think there is going to be reasonable stability with occasionally a little bit of a give in the value of the dollar.

Q. Do you think a decline in the value of the dollar sharply stimulates our exports?

A. I do not. It takes much longer this time around for the decline in the dollar to have a significant impact on our trade.
 It involves a number of countries such as India and China that provide goods and services to us at a very low labor cost. To turn that around, that will require a really significant decline in the value of the dollar. That's not about to happen.

Q. In your lifetime, have you seen a time of such huge fiscal and trade imbalances?

A. Not really. Today, there is an enormous international disequilibrium. For the near term, it is in the best interest of all the participants to maintain it.

Q. What could trip that disequilibrium into an economic disaster for the United States?

A. We could have a massive terrorist attack. The price of oil could ratchet very high. No.3, if Europe and Japan lifted economic activity significantly, that would turn things around and put more pressure on the United States.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



568 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Afghans Accuse U.S. of Secret Spraying to Kill Poppies

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KANAI, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Abdullah, a black-turbaned shepherd, said he was watching over his sheep one night in early February when he heard a plane pass low overhead three times. By morning his eyes were so swollen he could not open them and the sheep around him were dying in convulsions.
 Although farmers had noticed a white powder on their crops, they cut grass and clover for their animals and picked spinach to eat anyway. Within hours the animals were severely ill, people here said, and the villagers complained of fevers, skin rashes and bloody diarrhea. The children were particularly affected. A week later, the crops -- wheat, vegetables and poppies -- were dying, and a dozen dead animals, including newborn lambs, lay tossed in a heap. 
 The incident on Feb. 3 has left the herders of sheep and goats in this remote mountain area in Helmand Province deeply angered and suspicious. They are convinced that someone is surreptitiously spraying their lands or dusting them with chemicals, presumably in a clandestine effort to eradicate Afghanistan's bumper poppy crop, the world's leading source of opium. 
 The incident in Kanai was not the first time that Afghan villagers -- or Afghan government officials -- had complained of what they suspected was nighttime spraying. In November, villagers in Nimla, in Nangarhar Province, said their fields, too, had been laced with chemicals when a plane passed overhead several times during the night. 
 Afterward, Afghan and foreign officials who investigated returned with samples of tiny gray granules that they said provided evidence that spraying had occurred. Two Western embassies sent samples abroad for analysis but have not yet received the results. 
 At that time, President Hamid Karzai publicly condemned the spraying. Though it was never clear who was responsible, members of his staff said they suspected the United States or Britain, which together have been leading the struggle to rein in Afghan poppy cultivation, which has reached record levels. Both countries finance outside security firms to train Afghan counternarcotics forces. 
 President Karzai said his government was not spraying fields and had no knowledge of such activity, and he called in the American and British ambassadors for an explanation. Then, as now, the American and British Embassies denied any involvement.
 ''There is no credible evidence that aerial spraying has taken place in Helmand,'' the American Embassy said in a statement this time. ''No agency, personnel or contractors associated with the United States government have conducted or been involved in any such activity in Helmand or any other province of Afghanistan.'' 
 An Afghan government delegation sent to investigate the latest incident said it found no evidence of aerial spraying. Rather, ''a naturally occurring disease'' had killed the crops and animals, Lt. Gen. Muhammad Daoud, deputy interior minister for counternarcotics, said in a statement. 
 Agriculture Ministry officials said the extremely cold weather could have affected the crops. They added, however, that the ministry lacked the technical capacity to analyze samples for chemicals.
 But the people in Kanai, neighboring Tanai and at least two other villages are incredulous. For them, there is no doubt that someone sprayed their lands and, despite official denials, they blame the United States, which still controls the skies in Afghanistan. 
 ''They are the ones with the planes,'' said Abdul Ahmad, brother of the shepherd, Abdullah. Between them, the brothers had lost 200 animals from symptoms that suggested poisoning, he said.
 ''They went mad, their eyes went blue and they could not eat,'' he said of their sheep and goats. ''Water was coming from their mouths, they were trying to eat their droppings and they were shivering,'' he said. The animals appeared completely healthy the day before, he said.
 ''We gave our vote to Karzai so he would bring us help and now he is killing our animals,'' he said angrily.
 While the mystery lingers around who may be responsible for a secret aerial eradication campaign here -- or even whether one is actually being carried out -- there is no doubt that Afghanistan's booming poppy crop has been an intensifying concern to United States, British and other international officials. 
 In November, a United Nations report found that more than 300,000 acres in Afghanistan had been planted with poppies and expressed concern that the country was degenerating into a narcostate. American and other officials said they feared the drug trade had insinuated itself into virtually every corner of the Afghan economy and was financing rebels.
 Some American officials, particularly those in international narcotics and law enforcement, have for months advocated aerial spraying to gain control of the problem. 
 Diplomats and other foreign officials involved in agriculture programs and counternarcotics efforts here said there was a discussion in 2004 between American officials and other donors over whether to use aerial eradication to stem poppy cultivation, which expanded 64 percent last year. 
 In December, the Bush administration presented to Congress a budget request for $152 million for aerial spraying as part of a $776 million aid package for counternarcotics operations in Afghanistan for 2005. In January, it dropped the budget line for aerial spraying because of President Karzai's clear opposition, an American official in Kabul said. 
 Word of the budget request prompted 31 nonprofit groups, led by CARE International, to sign an open letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Jan. 31 expressing concern over what they considered the excessive emphasis on eradication in the United States administration's counternarcotics strategy in Afghanistan. 
 ''Widespread eradication in 2005 could undermine the economy and devastate already poor families without giving rural development projects sufficient time to provide alternative sources of income,'' the agencies warned. They called for concentration on interdiction of traffickers and support for farmers instead.
 Yet American officials have not ruled out the possible need for aerial eradication and financing, which was included in a supplemental request in February for $82 billion by the Bush administration for Iraq and Afghanistan, an American counternarcotics official in Kabul said. 
 One option considered by American officials last year was to rent civilian planes and spray the general weed killer Roundup over the provinces of Helmand and Badakhshan, two of the largest producers of poppies in the country, according to one official familiar with the plan. 
 American military officials in Afghanistan and those with the United States Agency for International Development are also against aerial spraying, foreign officials in Kabul say. Development officials argue that spraying will affect all agriculture and especially the poorest farmers; instead, they advocate alternative livelihood programs for farmers to dissuade them from growing poppies. 
 The military fears that spraying will turn the population against the government and the American presence in Afghanistan and increase support for insurgents, who remain active in southern Afghanistan.
 In fact, the belief that they have been sprayed has angered villagers all the more because the local police came here only 40 days before and destroyed their poppy fields on government orders, a fact that the district police chief, Abdul Hakim Karezwal, confirmed.
 The farmers said they had instead planted wheat, which was now yellow and rotting along with the clover, spinach and greens they had also planted. Some farmers kept growing small patches of poppies inside high garden walls, but most of the fields in the village showed shoots of young wheat.
 ''Karzai lied to us,'' one farmer, Ahmadullah, said. ''He said, 'We will give you assistance,' and he didn't. So we grew poppy to be able to feed our families. Then the president ordered it destroyed and so we destroyed it. And now he is destroying our wheat. What will be left of our lives? They destroyed everything. We will have to abandon the village.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wali Muhammad, left, and his father, Khaurialladad, show where a plane flew by, spraying their wheat field.
 In Kanai, an Afghan woman displays wheat she said was dying after planes had sprayed her field. (Photographs by Ruhullah Khapalwak for The New York Times)Map of Afghanistan highlighting Kanai.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); OPIUM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ANIMALS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SKIN DISORDERS (70%); EVIDENCE (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



569 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2005 Volvo S40 and V50; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Will a Little Luxury Count for a Lot With the Young?

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

DATELINE: Coshocton, Ohio 

 BODY:
LET us consider the seemingly incongruous concept of ''affordable luxury.'' Affordable for whom? Luxurious by what standard? The cerebral strain is enough to bring on an upscale headache.
 Such ruminations are more than an academic exercise. Many companies that claim to make luxury cars are exploring the lower reaches of that conceit as they seek younger buyers with new lines of smaller, less expensive cars and trucks -- vehicles that fall into the amorphous ''entry luxury'' class.
 For instance, Audi is bringing its small A3 to the United States in May with prices that are likely to be Camry-size, in the $25,000 to $30,000 range. BMW is likely to sell some variation of its new 1 Series or 2 Series. Mercedes-Benz had planned to import its small B-Class wagon next November, but the introduction has been delayed, reportedly because of concerns about high costs and the weak dollar. The B-Class is still scheduled to go on sale in Europe this summer. 
 And Volvo, which has already left a compact footprint in the United States with its S40 sedan and V50 wagon, has said it will bring in an even smaller model, the C30 hatchback coupe.
 ''The luxury brands are lowering their entry points,'' said Jeff Schuster, executive director for global forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates. The tactic is to build volume by bringing in younger customers, he added, to ''grab them early and keep them loyal as their incomes rise.'' Along the way, the theory goes, they will keep moving up to larger and more profitable vehicles.
 Volvo was ahead of the curve on this front. In 1999, it began to import its S40 line, which had already been on sale in Europe for four years. But that car, which had been designed for European tastes, wasn't well received in the United States.
 The S40 was not just small, its appointments were rather plain. It was also introduced with a one-note powertrain: a four-speed automatic transmission coupled with a 160-horsepower 4-cylinder engine that felt none too zippy.
 When it came time to replace the first S40, Volvo designed the successor -- which now has two names, the S40 sedan and V50 wagon -- with American tastes in mind.
 It is a given today that economy cars must share their basic structures with other models from the same corporate family (or from strategic partners), and these are no exception. Because Volvo is a Ford subsidiary, the S40 and V50 borrow a structure used by two corporate cousins, the Mazda 3 and the Ford Focus sold in Europe (but not the Focus offered in the United States). 
 Still, while there are similarities in the basic underpinnings, Volvo and Mazda executives say they developed the cars to perform differently, just as the exterior design and interior execution vary a lot. The S40 is priced as much as $10,000 more than the Mazda 3, a car that feels more direct and nimble, though certainly less refined.
 While no one would accuse the small Mazda of being a luxury car, the Volvos make a convincing case for themselves on some counts. The controls are well-dampened and the ride can be lush. The interior appointments are nicer than you'd probably expect in cars of this size.
 Volvo offers a choice of either of two suspensions. Shuttling between Cleveland and Detroit, I drove an S40 with front-wheel drive and the standard suspension. The roads were straight, unremarkable and pocked with potholes. I found the S40 to be a comfortable, if somewhat dull, cruiser.
 About a week later, I discovered the car's hidden, frolicksome side. Here in the Coshocton area some 100 miles south of Cleveland, I took the S40 over twisting country roads that pass through Norman Rockwell towns and along well-tended Amish farms. On this dipsy-doodle pavement, fraught with surprise 90-degree turns, the S40 showed that it knew how to party.
 The car is tuned to ride comfortably, and yes, that soft tuning means that the body leans a bit -- but only a bit -- on curves. But it doesn't hamper the S40's ability to handle the dynamic weight-shifting challenge of a quick right followed by a sharp left, a challenge that can fluster less capable suspensions. Suddenly, I was thinking that the S40 was my favorite Volvo, and certainly the liveliest and best handling.
 I could not say the same, however, of a V50 wagon with the sport suspension that I tried later. On the same roads between Cleveland and Detroit, I felt every pothole and tar strip. I cannot imagine giving up the well-rounded, utterly capable standard suspension for the taut and tough sport setup, much less paying $2,025 more for its insults and injuries to my person. 
 Then again, I am on the high side of Volvo's target age group; perhaps the bodies of the under-35 set can take more punishment.
 Getting down the straights was effortless and speedy, since the test model was an S40 T5, which in Volvospeak means a turbocharged 5-cylinder engine. With a displacement of 2.5 liters, the T5 is rated at 218 horsepower at 5,000 r.p.m. More important, it produces considerable torque along a wide range of engine speeds: 236 pounds-feet from 1,500 to 4,800 r.p.m. That means the car responds quickly almost every time you ask.
 There is another engine, a 168-horsepower 2.4-liter 5-cylinder that breathes naturally (without the turbo). It comes with a five-speed manual or a five-speed automatic.
 My S40 T5 test car had the automatic but not all-wheel drive, which is optional on T5 versions of both the sedan and wagon. The T5 also comes with a six-speed manual. Base prices range from $24,255 for the 2.4 liter with the 5-speed manual to $30,065 for the T5 with the automatic, which can be manually shifted.
 Even base models come with a lot of standard equipment. Safety features include antilock brakes; emergency brake assist for panic stops; side curtain air bags for head protection; and whiplash protection features in the front seats. My S40 T5 test car also had traction and stability control and options including a premium sound system and power moonroof. It carried a price of $30,175.
 Regardless of the type of road being traveled, life inside the S40 is pretty good. The interiors are far more elegant than before. The instrument panel has the clean Scandinavian design of a Bang & Olufsen audio system. Four types of upholstery are offered, including leather; my S40 had seats in an attractive soft ribbed textile called T-Tec, with contrasting-color stitching.
 The instrument panel contributes to the car's upscale feel. The center part of the panel, which houses the climate and audio controls, flows down like a waterfall to the center console. It is elegant, ultraslim and free-floating -- there is nothing behind the panel except a small tray at the base. 
 Volvo calls this tray a ''practical storage compartment for personal possessions.'' Who says the Swedes don't have a sense of humor? Indeed, it is practical for storage when the vehicle is going straight, though on even modest turns any personal possessions I placed there, like a cellphone, were flung about the vehicle.
 Storage spaces are generally lacking. The console has a tiny bin. The door pockets are very thin. A nice and needed touch are mesh pockets on the front edge of the front seats.
 People space is a bit limited, too. The new S40 is shorter than the previous model by 1.9 inches, though all the other dimensions are larger. The new car is taller (1.2 inches) and wider (2.1 inches) and has a wheelbase 3 inches longer.
 It does have 3 more cubic feet of trunk space and 1.7 more inches to stretch out in the backseat -- though the 34.4 inches of rear legroom fall short of the 36 inches in my own Ford Focus coupe, as well as the 36.3 inches in the Mazda 3 sedan. 
 The situation is much the same in the V50. There is less cargo room than in the wagon it replaces, though the space is comparable to that of competitors like the Audi A4.
 V50 prices range from $26,685 for the 2.4 engine with the automatic transmission to $31,280 for a T5 with all-wheel drive and the automatic. 
 The V50 I tested also had the T5 engine, this one matched to the six-speed manual. The gear ratios were nicely chosen, but the interplay between clutch and shifter wasn't slick or user-friendly. Some drivers may find it too touchy.
 Safety is, of course, one of Volvo's main selling points, and the company says it was determined to make this smaller models as safe as the large S80. One of the ways it accomplished this was to slim down the engines so that they are less likely to intrude into the passenger compartment in a crash. 
 In the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's 40 m.p.h. offset-front crash test, the S40 earned the highest rating; it also received a ''best pick'' designation. 
 In the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's 35 m.p.h. front crash test, the car got 4 out of 5 stars for driver safety, and 5 for front passenger protection. In the agency's side-impact test, the S40 received the top rating, five stars.
 Volvo credits its good performance to extra-strong boron steel in the middle roof pillar, as well as to the side-impact air bags and inflatable head-protection curtains.
 Thanks to Europe's new emphasis on pedestrian safety, the S40 was designed with a crumple zone between the hood and the engine, reducing the risk of head injuries.
 Volvo says it sees evidence that its efforts to win over younger buyers are already working. While the median age for all Volvo buyers is 47, the median for the new S40 and V50 is 35, a company spokesman, Dan Johnston, said.
 I came away from my test drives of the new small Volvos with a positive impression. It would be hard not to be enchanted by the S40 and V50, though a storage shortage and slightly cramped accommodations detract from the cars' strong points: an impressive list of safety features, a strong crash-test record and a supple standard suspension.
 While Volvo may not have resolved the inherent contradictions of whether a true luxury item can be something within the reach of so many, it has proved the wisdom of so many mothers' sage advice: ''Hey, it doesn't hurt to show a little class.''

INSIDE TRACK: Save money and your derriere: skip the sport suspension.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Instruments in the S40 sedan and V50 wagon, including a panel that ''floats'' between dash and console, have a clean Nordic look.Chart: ''Small Stylish Wagons'' lists features and specifications for selected wagons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (89%); US DOLLAR (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



570 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart's Profits: Nearly $20,000 (Per Minute, That Is)

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:
Say what you will about Wal-Mart -- and critics say plenty, about its wages, its working conditions and its bulldozer impact on smaller ''old economy'' stores unlucky enough to lie in its path -- but it has created an astounding money machine. 
 It recently reported that for the latest fiscal year, it had profits -- not sales, but profits -- of $10.3 billion. 
But, of course, that's one of those disembodied corporate numbers that mere mortals with $307.63 in their checking accounts can have trouble getting their minds around.
 So look at it this way, and imagine a triumphant chorus of ringing cash registers as accompaniment: Every minute, around the clock, this colossus of commerce earns an average of nearly $20,000. And that profit comes without a store in New York City, where opposition prompted Wal-Mart last week to scrap a plan for a store in Queens.
 When you consider that its profit margins must be razor-thin to keep prices low, that's a mind-boggling amount of stuff changing hands. Hubert B. Herring


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Time Is Money''NET PROFIT, FISCAL YEAR 2004Walmart: $10.3 billionTarget: 3.2Costco: 0.9HOW THAT BREAKS DOWN EVERY HOURCostco: $102,669Target: $365,046Walmart: $1,174,994EVERY MINUTEWalmart: $19,583Target: $6,084Costco: $1,711(Source by company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



571 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2761 words

HEADLINE: Where You Live Can Hurt You

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
SARA LOUISE LAZARUS lost a lot of weight last year, but she has gained some of it back since moving from her apartment on the Upper West Side to an idyllic 100-year-old colonial house with a leafy yard in Millburn, N.J.
 It's possible, she mused the other day, that the weight gain has to do with her newfound domesticity. She has become a kitchen goddess, contentedly cooking breakfast, dinner and desserts for her husband, David Seader, and their first-grade son, Sam. In New York, the family ate out a lot. 
 But, she has to admit, she is also walking less. The half-mile, 10-minute walk to the train station that seemed so inviting in the summer and fall now seems gloomy and slightly menacing in winter, as darkness falls earlier. 
 ''It's next to the South Mountain Reservation,'' said Ms. Lazarus, who commutes to New York, where she is a director and teacher at the Circle in the Square Theater School. ''It's all woods and dark, and you feel like you're in 'The Blair Witch Project.' So there goes the walking.''
 Right about now, one can imagine Dr. Roland Sturm, a senior economist at the RAND Corporation, nodding knowingly. Dr. Sturm and a colleague, Dr. Deborah Cohen, a RAND researcher and physician, released a study last fall that found that people who live in sprawling suburban areas are less healthy in certain areas -- mostly associated with exercise, or the lack of it -- than those who live in compact urban neighborhoods.
 The study, published in the journal Public Health, was based on lengthy telephone surveys that questioned adults about their physical and mental health between 1998 and 2001. Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen analyzed data from more than 8,600 people in 38 metropolitan areas.
 The researchers concluded that suburbanites were more likely to report chronic health problems, like high blood pressure, arthritis, headaches, migraines and breathing problems than people who lived in the city, even after accounting for mitigating factors like race, age, economic status and the weather, which might influence how much exercise people got.
 Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen said their findings suggested that sprawl ages a community by four years. The more quintessentially suburban one's community, they concluded, the worse for one's health. The worst possible place to live, they said, was the suburban ideal: a cul-de-sac with few sidewalks that empties into a big access road, so that residents have to drive to shopping, school and work. 
 Conversely, people were healthier in places like Chicago, Boston and San Francisco -- possibly because they were more likely to walk to work or take public transportation, according to the study, than in places like Atlanta; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and San Bernardino, Calif., where there was more sprawl and more reliance on cars. The tendency of people to be healthier also holds for extremely compact places like New York City, Dr. Sturm said, although by virtue of its compactness, it is something of an anomaly. 
 The study gains some power from being so counterintuitive. It would seem to be a given that living in a single-family house is a step above most apartments; that green grass is a better place for children to play in than the asphalt jungle; that it is healthier to be surrounded by tall trees than by tall skyscrapers. But its conclusions have been met with skepticism by some experts for drawing cause-and-effect links where they may be dubious. 
 ''My reaction to this is it's intriguing but certainly needs a lot more explanation,'' said Dr. David Ackman, Nassau County's health commissioner. ''This is -- in general -- the weakest type of epidemiologic study. It says there's an association, but we don't know if it's causative. These sorts of studies are generally thought of as hypothesis-generating studies. They raise questions that may or may not merit further investigation.'' 
 Another criticism, which the authors acknowledge, is that the study ignored variations among microenvironments -- neighborhoods within neighborhoods.
 A look at county health statistics for New York State suggests that New York City's five boroughs vary so widely in lifestyle and health that it might be difficult to generalize about the city as a whole.
 The authors of the RAND study created a ''sprawl index'' for 38 metropolitan areas, with a lower score denoting more sprawl. In the New York region, the cities studied were New York, Newark and Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford. On their list, Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif., had the worst sprawl score, at 14.2, followed by Greensboro, N.C., and Atlanta. Boston (126.9), San Francisco (146.8) and New York City (177.8) are at the other extreme.
 Also relatively near the top for sprawl were Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, which ranked sixth, with a score of 68.4. Rochester (77.9), Syracuse (80.3) and Newark (81.3) ranked slightly better but still among the most sprawling third of the list.
 The study also conducted a ''sensitivity analysis'' to determine whether factors like unemployment, English-speaking skills, the percentage of homeowners and the number of liquor stores or bars would change the results; it did not. 
 ''We see higher incidence of chronic conditions in areas that are more sprawling,'' Dr. Sturm said in a recent interview from his office in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Especially pain conditions. They're stiff, they have joint pain, hypertension, heart conditions'' -- conditions, he said, that could be related to a lack of physical activity.
 Yes, Dr. Sturm conceded, the term ''soccer mom'' was invented to describe suburban women. So doesn't it matter that suburban children play organized sports or that their parents go to the gym?
 Dr. Sturm argues that it doesn't, at least not enough. More important than weekend exercise and going to the gym, he says, is what he calls ''utilitarian walking,'' the few minutes several times a day spent walking to the subway, including up and down the subway stairs, or to the corner grocery store or a restaurant that people living in urban areas more typically do.
 ''There is less utilitarian walking in sprawling areas,'' he said. ''People don't think of it as exercise, but it makes a huge difference. Just the 10 additional minutes a day that you go to the store and back easily add up to a couple of pounds a year in terms of body weight.''
 When children play soccer, he notes, they may stand around a lot. ''During those 30 minutes that they actually play soccer each week,'' he said, ''they may not spend even half the amount of energy that another kid spends walking to school." Trisha Beatty, who lives in a secluded development of large homes near Glastonbury, confesses to being torn about the advantages and disadvantages of suburban living, but like other mothers, she says she and her husband have chosen the suburbs as a safe, comfortable place to raise their two children.
 ''I agree with the premise, but regretfully,'' she says of the sprawl study's finding that people walk less in the suburbs.
 The Beatty family epitomizes what the sprawl study defines as the worst possible situation: their big, beautiful house is in a cul-de-sac, with no sidewalks and no streetlights, two miles down a country road from the main access route to the nearby towns of Glastonbury, Hebron and Bolton. The closest store is about five miles away.
 Sports are certainly celebrated by people in the area. There are hiking trails and mountain biking nearby. But routine walking is difficult. 
 Ms. Beatty, an administrator of subsidized housing for the elderly who commutes to work in Hartford several times a week, is an exception to the non-pedestrian culture around her. She has mapped out a three-mile walking route and tries to walk or jog it three times a week, sometimes with a friend. But just walking in her car-centered neighborhood requires courage. She has to walk along the shoulder of the road, and when cars come, she and her friend move into single file. In icy weather, she goes to Curves for a half-hour workout. 
 She is not a fan of gas-guzzling, air-polluting S.U.V.'s, but she and her husband bought one after moving in 10 years ago, because their house is on a steep hill, and without all-wheel-drive, they sometimes had to park the car at the bottom of the hill in bad weather. As for her two daughters, 13 and 16, they take a bus and a van to school.
 ''We love our house,'' she said. ''We love the neighborhood. There are definitely positives to living here. But I can see myself living somewhere else, too. I keep telling the kids that as soon as they get older, I'm selling this house, and I am going to the city or something.''
 Mary Murphy, who lives in Rockville Centre, N.Y., often marvels at how dependent she and her neighbors are on their cars. People become so accustomed to driving, she said, that they will drive to places just two blocks away, unthinkable in the city, if only because of the scarcity of parking.
 ''People drive like a mile, and then go to the gym,'' she said. ''Why don't you just walk that mile and save the money? Or they take their cars and go to someplace where they can jog, like the high school track, but they drive to that, so they're wasting gas and polluting the air.''
 Ms. Murphy has lived in Rockville Centre for 14 years, but when it comes to exercise, she still looks back fondly at her days in Ozone Park, Queens. In Queens, she said, there were always little stores two blocks away to walk to for necessities, while on Long Island, she has to go to the main drag a mile away.
 Westchester County's health commissioner, Joshua Lipsman, was willing to endorse some of Dr. Sturm's conclusions, saying he had no doubt that a link could be found between a heavy reliance on cars for transportation and obesity.
 But like Dr. Ackman of Nassau County, he suggested that factors like education and affluence might compensate for the effects of sprawl. Dr. Ackman noted that Nassau scores well on health measures, which he attributes mainly to its affluence, since affluence, as Dr. Sturm acknowledges, strongly correlates with good health.
 His view gets some support from federal health data. In the two key factors associated with sprawl -- exercise and weight -- Westchester and Nassau Counties score very favorably compared with other counties in New York. They are topped only by Manhattan, according to preliminary data gathered for the 2003 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, a telephone survey of the health of Americans compiled by the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in cooperation with selected counties across the country.
 Asked whether they were overweight, only 42.3 percent of Manhattan residents said they were, the lowest percentage in the New York City area. Next were Fairfield County, Conn., and Nassau with 52 percent, followed by Westchester with 53.6 percent. 
 In Bergen County, N.J., 55 percent of residents reported being overweight or obese. In Hudson County, the numbers were about the same, with 56 percent reporting that they were overweight or obese.
 The other four boroughs of New York City did somewhat worse than the suburbs, with 62.7 percent of Bronx residents reporting that they were overweight, 58.6 percent of Brooklyn residents, 57.7 percent of Staten Island residents and 57.6 percent of Queens residents. Suffolk County had an obesity rate similar to most of New York City, at 57 percent.
 In a related question -- whether people had engaged in any leisure-time physical activity or exercise during the preceding 30 days -- Fairfield County came in at the top, with only 12 percent saying they had been sedentary. In Westchester 20 percent said they had been sedentary, followed by a tie between Manhattan and Suffolk, both with 21.7 percent sedentary residents. 
 Many suburban dwellers say they would like to integrate exercise into their routines but find themselves stymied by a suburban terrain that doesn't lend itself to walking.
 For Stephanie Brody, an investment banker, moving to Scarsdale, N.Y., six months ago from the Upper West Side was the right decision for her four children -- 5-year-old twins, a 3-year-old and a baby. But she sees an exercise divide between adults and children: The adults, she suspects, get less, while the children get more.
 In Manhattan, she said, taking her children to play in Central Park could be a headache. ''You can't go to Central Park with three or four kids as easily as opening up the door to your backyard and calling up the kid next door to go out and play.''
 But her new street doesn't have sidewalks, making it hazardous to go out for a walk with the baby in the stroller. She tries to walk her children to school when possible. ''You want to teach your kids that walking is something that is part of their normal existence,'' she said. ''You have to go out of your way to instill that here.''
 Likewise, Ms. Lazarus in Millburn reluctantly confirmed many of the sprawl study's conclusions, if only anecdotally. Her family now has a yard, graced by two towering pine trees, and she likes looking out the window at the birds and squirrels competing for seeds at her new bird feeder.
 ''The joy of waking up in the morning and looking out the window,'' she said of her neighborhood. ''We have views and this backyard that just goes on and on and on and on. It's very soul-feeding. I feel wonderful being here.''
 But having a backyard also makes her family more reclusive than they were in the city. Her son, Sam, doesn't go to the playground nearly as often as he did on the Upper West Side. And sometimes, now that the weather is cold, it is easier to drive the three blocks to his school than to walk.
 In Manhattan, they took the subway two stops and then walked five blocks round trip to Sam's school. Without the street life of the city, walking seems less connected, less engaging. ''The one thing I will say about suburban life is that I miss the people of the city,'' she said.
 But Ms. Lazarus just keeps thinking about the well-being she feels looking at the view from her windows. ''It's so delicious, and the snow is so gorgeous,'' she said. ''I look at it, and I feel healthy.''

When Asthmatics Breathe Easier
 ALTHOUGH the authors of the sprawl study did not conduct any independent research into the connection between sprawling suburbs, health and air pollution, they did examine evidence from other studies.
 In general, they said, other research has shown that sprawling areas tend to have more pollution from sources like automobiles. So there is circumstantial evidence, the authors suggest, for a link between pollution and the higher rates of breathing problems and headaches they found in sprawling areas.
 ''Very far out, yeah, they probably have better air because they do not have the stationary sources of pollution like power plants,'' Dr. Roland Sturm, one of the authors of the study, said. ''But why is there so much smog in Los Angeles? That's because of the driver.''
 Of course, there may be other contributing factors to asthma rates, like poverty, inferior health care and other sources of pollution. In 2001, Nassau County on Long Island had just 53.9 pediatric hospitalizations for asthma per 100,000 population, compared with 95 in Manhattan and 159.2 in the Bronx. 
 Dr. Sturm cited a study published in February 2001 in The Journal of the American Medical Association on the impact of rerouting automobiles in an effort to decrease congestion during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
 The study found that hospitalizations for childhood asthma were reduced during that period and that this correlated with a lower rate of ground-level ozone pollution.
 The authors compared pediatric hospitalization rates during the 17 days of the Olympics with a baseline period four weeks before and four weeks after. They found that during the Games, state Medicaid claims for visits to doctors decreased nearly 42 percent, while visits for other acute conditions declined by insignificant amounts.
 This correlated with a 22.5 percent decrease in peak weekday morning traffic and a 28 percent decline in peak daily ozone concentrations. The weather did not differ significantly. 
 Sara Louise Lazarus can affirm such statistics anecdotally. After moving from the Upper West Side to Millburn, N.J., her son's asthma has clearly improved. ''He has far fewer needs to use the nebulizer or his puffers,'' she said.
 Her husband can't get over how clean the house is, because the dust and soot that used to accumulate in the city doesn't seem to gather nearly as fast. ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ron and Stephanie Brody, who recently moved from New York City, with their children in the backyard of their home in Scarsdale, N.Y. Below, Mary Murphy of Rockville Centre, N.Y., drops her daughter, Susan, off at South Side High School on her way to work. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Jim Starr)Chart: ''Expanding in the Suburbs''A RAND Corporation study found that people who live in sprawling areas are more likely to complain of chronic health problems related to lack of exercise than people who live in cities. But a 2003 survey by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found little difference between the New York region's suburbs and the city's five boroughs -- with the exception of Manhattan, where far fewer people were considered overweight.2003 data
 figures for New York are preliminaryNEW YORK CITY: ManhattanAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 42%Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78%NEW YORK CITY: QueensAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 68NEW YORK CITY: Staten IslandAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 74NEW YORK CITY: BrooklynAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 59Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70NEW YORK CITY: BronxAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 63Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 63SURROUNDING COUNTIES: NassauAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 52Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: SuffolkAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 57Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78SURROUNDING COUNTIES: WestchesterAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 54Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 80SURROUNDING COUNTIES: BergenAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 55Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: HudsonAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 56Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70SURROUNDING COUNTIES: Fairfield (2002)Adult residents who were overweight or obese: 52Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 88(Sources by New York, New Jersey and Connecticut Health Departments)(pg. 8)Map of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut highlights New York City. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SUBURBS (88%); CITIES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); ARTHRITIS (66%); HYPERTENSION (61%) Medicine and Health; Suburbs; Urban Areas ; Research; Exercise

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) Rand Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: Roland Sturm; Deborah (Dr) Cohen; Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



572 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: The Presidents' Man

BYLINE: By Thomas Frank. 
Thomas Frank is the author, most recently, of ''What's the Matter With Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America.''

 BODY:

JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH
His Life, His Politics, His Economics.
By Richard Parker.
Illustrated. 820 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $35.
 OPTIMISTIC superstition with regard to all things economic is a typically American folly, as vigorous and unrepentant today as it was in 1929. We shower high honors on any author who can repackage the comforting idea that the free market is a democratic expression of the popular will; we pay an army of lecturers to persuade us that each new corporate cost-cutting initiative is an unprecedented victory for the little guy; and we support an entire cable news channel that limns the wonders of the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. 
 Wherever this superstitious mind is at work, there you will also find John Kenneth Galbraith deplored and reviled. I ran across his name repeatedly while researching a book on the origins of the new economy, that fevered epilogue to the last century. Tom Peters, to take just one example, assailed Galbraith as the patron saint of the large, vertically integrated corporation, a form of organization that Peters characterized as a ''hubristic exercise'' in defying market forces.
 Peters wasn't alone. Galbraith infuriated the faithful for a large part of the 20th century. The conclusions he drew when working on the United States Strategic Bombing Survey in the closing days of World War II -- specifically, that the massive aerial bombardment of Germany was without significant military effect -- caused terrific problems for officials who wanted the study to prove that bombing had won the war. Testifying before a Senate committee in 1955 on the nature of stock market bubbles, Galbraith incurred the wrath of investors everywhere; they'd noticed that the market fell while he spoke and naturally concluded cause and effect. 
 None of this was a matter of chance. Galbraith's formal subject may have been economics, but his work can just as well be read as a long meditation on business's genius for self-deception, its consistent preference for flattering theory over troublesome reality. Galbraith is, after all, the originator of the familiar term ''conventional wisdom'' and his book on the bull market of the 1920's, ''The Great Crash, 1929,'' emphasized the role of ''incantation'' and ''mass escape into make-believe'' in that great orgy of speculation.
 The tension between theory and reality runs throughout Richard Parker's ''John Kenneth Galbraith: His Life, His Politics, His Economics.'' It defines as well Galbraith's relationship to his profession, which like so many other academic fields spent much of the 20th century insulating itself behind an impenetrable language -- in the case of economics, a language of equations and models and perfectly rational actors. Galbraith went in the opposite direction, becoming a public intellectual who spent his life advising politicians, honing his famously aphoristic style, even working as a journalist. His economics, as Parker, a senior fellow of the Shorenstein Center at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, explains, ''integrated politics, power, ideology and historical circumstance to explain the actually lived economic world.'' Reality is messy. Or, as Galbraith himself put it with his typical pithiness: ''Specialization is the parent not only of boredom but also of irrelevance and error.'' 
 Thus Parker's book is both a biography and a treatise on the misinterpretations and disastrous mistakes -- the mystery of stagflation, the bubble of the 90's, Vietnam -- that theoretical rigidity and deference to experts have brought over the last hundred years. It is also, thanks to Galbraith's longevity, his work in so many administrations and his battles with so many other economic thinkers, a fine one-volume history of economic thought in the 20th century. First came the smashup of classical economic theory during the Depression, when steadily worsening conditions exposed the free-market faith in naturally occurring equilibrium for the superstition that it was. (The leading lights of the Harvard economics department, where Galbraith was then a lowly instructor, were slow to catch on. ''These orthodox men believed in markets with a faith bordering on religion,'' Parker writes, in 1934 opposing the early recovery efforts of the Roosevelt administration, ''not on 'political' but on 'scientific' grounds.'' 
 Free-market orthodoxy was soon brushed aside by the theories of John Maynard Keynes, whose American disciples -- Galbraith prominent among them -- saw a central role for government in managing the economy, thus furnishing theoretical justification to remedies long advocated by liberal reformers. Keynesianism conquered the corporate mind as well, and the nation heeded the advice of a new set of experts who promised to deliver growth and prosperity, mainly through military spending. So complete was its triumph that even Milton Friedman, still the standard-bearer of economic conservatism today, was moved to say in 1965, ''We're all Keynesians now.'' In the 70's, though, free-market orthodoxy returned, this time as an insurgent out of the University of Chicago, armed with an idea called rational expectations, whose ''sheer theoretical beauty and rigorous internal consistency'' had soon captured economics departments nationwide. Committed partisan though he was, Galbraith retained his critical edge, pointing out even during the Keynesian heyday that our affluence concealed a certain absurdity as well as a dangerous militarism.
 To this story of clashing ideas Parker adds farmer uprisings and student revolts, along with the minutiae of World War II price controls. I will confess that I was initially skeptical about the book's 820 pages of dense type, but every detail is justified and every digression fascinating. If the book has a failing, it is that Galbraith's dry, Anglified wit and his big Keynesian ideas seem to shrink when placed alongside his amazing doings.
 After all, John Kenneth Galbraith was not merely another Harvard professor. He was born in a remote corner of Ontario in 1908, when it was often the farmers who were the radicals and the Harvard professors who were the guardians of the status quo. Galbraith's father, in fact, was active in one of the left-wing rebellions that used periodically to sweep North American farm country. The son commenced the career that would eventually make him famous for his urbanity by studying animal husbandry at a little-known ag college in his home province. From there it was on to Berkeley, where he acquired a Ph.D. in agricultural economics -- an exciting and important subject at the time, given the agrarian reforms on which the New Deal had embarked -- and Harvard, where he landed an instructorship in 1934. He knew presidents from Roosevelt to Clinton. With John F. Kennedy he was particularly close, advising him again and again to avoid entanglement in Vietnam. Through it all he served as the urbane face of liberalism, commenting constantly on television and producing a long, admirable list of books and articles.
 What astonishes the contemporary reader is, first of all, that a genuine, independent intellectual like Galbraith was permitted to serve in government, let alone become the confidant of presidents. Facile anti-intellectualism is the order of the day now, as even Democrats race to embrace the free-market logic of the Chicagoans. The ''New Industrial State'' that the great liberal economist described in 1967 is now Public Enemy No. 1 of financiers and rebel C.E.O.'s determined to, as Tom Peters put it in 1992, blast ''the violent winds of the marketplace into every nook and cranny in the firm.'' 
 Yet reading Parker's comprehensive account of the 20th century's economic battles, I can't help thinking that this ought to be Galbraith's moment. An old-school scoffer like Galbraith would remind us that all our elected officials have done with their heady incantations of the virtues of privatizing Social Security and the glories of deregulation is resurrect the superstitions of our orthodox ancestors, and trade in our affluent society for a faith-based 19th-century model in which the affluence accrues only to the top.


CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Page 18 of the Book Review today, with a review of ''John Kenneth Galbraith'' by Richard Parker, gives an erroneous title from the book for the post held by Robert F. Kennedy in 1962. He was attorney general, not a senator.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Galbraith at 33, ''price czar'' of the Office of Price Administration during World War II. (Photographs by Bernard Charlon)
Galbraith with Senator Robert F. Kennedy, 1962
 in the margin below, Galbraith in Paris for work on the BBC series 'The Age of Uncertainty,'' shown here in 1977 (the motorcycle is parked). (Photographs this page by courtesy from Galbraith Personal Collection)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ARMIES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Thomas Frank; Richard Parker; John Kenneth Galbraith

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



573 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2763 words

HEADLINE: Where You Live Can Hurt You

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
SARA LOUISE LAZARUS lost a lot of weight last year, but she has gained some of it back since moving from her apartment on the Upper West Side to an idyllic 100-year-old colonial house with a leafy yard in Millburn, N.J.
 It's possible, she mused the other day, that the weight gain has to do with her newfound domesticity. She has become a kitchen goddess, contentedly cooking breakfast, dinner and desserts for her husband, David Seader, and their first-grade son, Sam. In New York, the family ate out a lot. 
 But, she has to admit, she is also walking less. The half-mile, 10-minute walk to the train station that seemed so inviting in the summer and fall now seems gloomy and slightly menacing in winter, as darkness falls earlier. 
 ''It's next to the South Mountain Reservation,'' said Ms. Lazarus, who commutes to New York, where she is a director and teacher at the Circle in the Square Theater School. ''It's all woods and dark, and you feel like you're in 'The Blair Witch Project.' So there goes the walking.''
 Right about now, one can imagine Dr. Roland Sturm, a senior economist at the RAND Corporation, nodding knowingly. Dr. Sturm and a colleague, Dr. Deborah Cohen, a RAND researcher and physician, released a study last fall that found that people who live in sprawling suburban areas are less healthy in certain areas -- mostly associated with exercise, or the lack of it -- than those who live in compact urban neighborhoods.
 The study, published in the journal Public Health, was based on lengthy telephone surveys that questioned adults about their physical and mental health between 1998 and 2001. Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen analyzed data from more than 8,600 people in 38 metropolitan areas.
 The researchers concluded that suburbanites were more likely to report chronic health problems, like high blood pressure, arthritis, headaches, migraines and breathing problems than people who lived in the city, even after accounting for mitigating factors like race, age, economic status and the weather, which might influence how much exercise people got.
 Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen said their findings suggested that sprawl ages a community by four years. The more quintessentially suburban one's community, they concluded, the worse for one's health. The worst possible place to live, they said, was the suburban ideal: a cul-de-sac with few sidewalks that empties into a big access road, so that residents have to drive to shopping, school and work. 
 Conversely, people were healthier in places like Chicago, Boston and San Francisco -- possibly because they were more likely to walk to work or take public transportation, according to the study, than in places like Atlanta; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and San Bernardino, Calif., where there was more sprawl and more reliance on cars. The tendency of people to be healthier also holds for extremely compact places like New York City, Dr. Sturm said, although by virtue of its compactness, it is something of an anomaly. 
 The study gains some power from being so counterintuitive. It would seem to be a given that living in a single-family house is a step above most apartments; that green grass is better place for children to play in than the asphalt jungle; that it is healthier to be surrounded by tall trees than by tall skyscrapers. But its conclusions have been met with skepticism by some experts for drawing cause-and-effect links where they may be dubious. 
 ''My reaction to this is it's intriguing but certainly needs a lot more explanation,'' said Dr. David Ackman, Nassau County's health commissioner. ''This is -- in general -- the weakest type of epidemiologic study. It says there's an association, but we don't know if it's causative. These sorts of studies are generally thought of as hypothesis-generating studies. They raise questions that may or may not merit further investigation.'' 
 Another criticism, which the authors acknowledge, is that the study ignored variations among microenvironments -- neighborhoods within neighborhoods.
 A look at county health statistics for New York State suggests that New York City's five boroughs vary so widely in lifestyle and health that it might be difficult to generalize about the city as a whole.
 The authors of the RAND study created a ''sprawl index'' for 38 metropolitan areas, with a lower score denoting more sprawl. In the New York region, the cities studied were New York, Newark and Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, Conn. 
 On their list, Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif., had the worst sprawl score, at 14.2, followed by Greensboro, N.C., and Atlanta. Boston (126.9), San Francisco (146.8) and New York City (177.8) are at the other extreme.
 Also relatively near the top for sprawl were Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, which ranked sixth, with a score of 68.4. Rochester (77.9), Syracuse (80.3) and Newark (81.3) ranked slightly better but still among the most sprawling third of the list.
 The study also conducted a ''sensitivity analysis'' to determine whether factors like unemployment, English-speaking skills, the percentage of homeowners and the number of liquor stores or bars would change the results; it did not. 
 ''We see higher incidence of chronic conditions in areas that are more sprawling,'' Dr. Sturm said in a recent interview from his office in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Especially pain conditions. They're stiff, they have joint pain, hypertension, heart conditions'' -- conditions, he said, that could be related to a lack of physical activity.
 Yes, Dr. Sturm conceded, the term ''soccer mom'' was invented to describe suburban women. So doesn't it matter that suburban children play organized sports or that their parents go to the gym?
 Dr. Sturm argues that it doesn't, at least not enough. More important than weekend exercise and going to the gym, he says, is what he calls ''utilitarian walking,'' the few minutes several times a day spent walking to the subway, including up and down the subway stairs, or to the corner grocery store or a restaurant that people living in urban areas more typically do.
 ''There is less utilitarian walking in sprawling areas,'' he said. ''People don't think of it as exercise, but it makes a huge difference. Just the 10 additional minutes a day that you go to the store and back easily add up to a couple of pounds a year in terms of body weight.''
 When children play soccer, he notes, they may stand around a lot. ''During those 30 minutes that they actually play soccer each week,'' he said, ''they may not spend even half the amount of energy that another kid spends walking to school." Trisha Beatty, who lives in a secluded development of large homes near Glastonbury, Conn., confesses to being torn about the advantages and disadvantages of suburban living, but like other mothers, she says she and her husband have chosen the suburbs as a safe, comfortable place to raise their two children.
 ''I agree with the premise, but regretfully,'' she says of the sprawl study's finding that people walk less in the suburbs.
 The Beatty family epitomizes what the sprawl study defines as the worst possible situation: their big, beautiful house is in a cul-de-sac, with no sidewalks and no streetlights, two miles down a country road from the main access route to the nearby towns of Glastonbury, Hebron and Bolton. The closest store is about five miles away.
 Sports are certainly celebrated by people in the area. There are hiking trails and mountain biking nearby. But routine walking is difficult. 
 Ms. Beatty, an administrator of subsidized housing for the elderly who commutes to work in Hartford several times a week, is an exception to the non-pedestrian culture around her. She has mapped out a three-mile walking route and tries to walk or jog it three times a week, sometimes with a friend. But just walking in her car-centered neighborhood requires courage. She has to walk along the shoulder of the road, and when cars come, she and her friend move into single file. In icy weather, she goes to Curves for a half-hour workout. 
 She is not a fan of gas-guzzling, air-polluting S.U.V.'s, but she and her husband bought one after moving in 10 years ago, because their house is on a steep hill, and without all-wheel-drive, they sometimes had to park the car at the bottom of the hill in bad weather. As for her two daughters, 13 and 16, they take a bus and a van to school.
 ''We love our house,'' she said. ''We love the neighborhood. There are definitely positives to living here. But I can see myself living somewhere else, too. I keep telling the kids that as soon as they get older, I'm selling this house, and I am going to the city or something.''
 Mary Murphy, who lives in Rockville Centre, often marvels at how dependent she and her neighbors are on their cars. People become so accustomed to driving, she said, that they will drive to places just two blocks away, unthinkable in the city, if only because of the scarcity of parking.
 ''People drive like a mile, and then go to the gym,'' she said. ''Why don't you just walk that mile and save the money? Or they take their cars and go to someplace where they can jog, like the high school track, but they drive to that, so they're wasting gas and polluting the air.''
 Ms. Murphy has lived in Rockville Centre for 14 years, but when it comes to exercise, she still looks back fondly at her days in Ozone Park, Queens.
 In Queens, she said, there were always little stores two blocks away to walk to for necessities, while on Long Island, she has to go to the main drag a mile away.
 Westchester County's health commissioner, Joshua Lipsman, was willing to endorse some of Dr. Sturm's conclusions, saying he had no doubt that a link could be found between a heavy reliance on cars for transportation and obesity.
 But like Dr. Ackman of Nassau County, he suggested that factors like education and affluence might compensate for the effects of sprawl. Dr. Ackman noted that Nassau scores well on health measures, which he attributes mainly to its affluence, since affluence, as Dr. Sturm acknowledges, strongly correlates with good health.
 His view gets some support from federal health data. In the two key factors associated with sprawl -- exercise and weight -- Westchester and Nassau Counties score very favorably compared with other counties in New York. They are topped only by Manhattan, according to preliminary data gathered for the 2003 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, a telephone survey of the health of Americans compiled by the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in cooperation with selected counties across the country.
 Asked whether they were overweight, only 42.3 percent of Manhattan residents said they were, the lowest percentage in the New York City area. In second place was Nassau, with 52.1 percent, followed by Westchester with 53.6 percent.
 In Bergen County, N.J., 55 percent of residents reported being overweight or obese. In Hudson County, the numbers were about the same, with 56 percent reporting that they were overweight or obese.
 The other four boroughs of New York City did somewhat worse than the suburbs, with 62.7 percent of Bronx residents reporting that they were overweight, 58.6 percent of Brooklyn residents, 57.7 percent of Staten Island residents and 57.6 percent of Queens residents. Suffolk County had an obesity rate similar to most of New York City, at 57 percent.
 In a related question -- whether people had engaged in any leisure-time physical activity or exercise during the preceding 30 days -- Westchester came in at the top, with only 20 percent saying they had been sedentary, followed by a tie between Manhattan and Suffolk, both with 21.7 percent sedentary residents. Next came Bergen, with 24 percent; Nassau, 24.4 percent; and Staten Island, 26.2 percent sedentary. 
 Many suburban dwellers say they would like to integrate exercise into their routines but find themselves stymied by a suburban terrain that doesn't lend itself to walking.
 For Stephanie Brody, an investment banker, moving to Scarsdale, N.Y., six months ago from the Upper West Side was the right decision for her four children -- 5-year-old twins, a 3-year-old and a baby. But she sees an exercise divide between adults and children: The adults, she suspects, get less, while the children get more.
 In Manhattan, she said, taking her children to play in Central Park could be a headache. ''You can't go to Central Park with three or four kids as easily as opening up the door to your backyard and calling up the kid next door to go out and play.''
 But her new street doesn't have sidewalks, making it hazardous to go out for a walk with the baby in the stroller. 
 She tries to walk her children to school when possible. ''You want to teach your kids that walking is something that is part of their normal existence,'' she said. ''You have to go out of your way to instill that here.''
 Likewise, Ms. Lazarus in Millburn reluctantly confirmed many of the sprawl study's conclusions, if only anecdotally. Her family now has a yard, graced by two towering pine trees, and she likes looking out the window at the birds and squirrels competing for seeds at her new bird feeder.
 ''The joy of waking up in the morning and looking out the window,'' she said of her neighborhood. ''We have views and this backyard that just goes on and on and on and on. It's very soul-feeding. I feel wonderful being here.''
 But having a backyard also makes her family more reclusive than they were in the city. Her son, Sam, doesn't go to the playground nearly as often as he did on the Upper West Side. And sometimes, now that the weather is cold, it is easier to drive the three blocks to his school than to walk.
 In Manhattan, they took the subway two stops and then walked five blocks round trip to Sam's school. Without the street life of the city, walking seems less connected, less engaging. ''The one thing I will say about suburban life is that I miss the people of the city,'' she said.
 But Ms. Lazarus just keeps thinking about the well-being she feels looking at the view from her windows. ''It's so delicious, and the snow is so gorgeous,'' she said. ''I look at it, and I feel healthy.''

When Asthmatics Breathe Easier
 ALTHOUGH the authors of the sprawl study did not conduct any independent research into the connection between sprawling suburbs, health and air pollution, they did examine evidence from other studies.
 In general, they said, other research has shown that sprawling areas tend to have more pollution from sources like automobiles. So there is circumstantial evidence, the authors suggest, for a link between pollution and the higher rates of breathing problems and headaches they found in sprawling areas.
 ''Very far out, yeah, they probably have better air because they do not have the stationary sources of pollution like power plants,'' Dr. Roland Sturm, one of the authors of the study, said. ''But why is there so much smog in Los Angeles? That's because of the driver.''
 Of course, there may be other contributing factors to asthma rates, like poverty, inferior health care and other sources of pollution. In 2001, Nassau County had just 53.9 pediatric hospitalizations for asthma per 100,000 population, compared with 95 in Manhattan and 159.2 in the Bronx. 
 Dr. Sturm cited a study published in February 2001 in The Journal of the American Medical Association on the impact of rerouting automobiles in an effort to decrease congestion during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
 The study found that hospitalizations for childhood asthma were reduced during that period and that this correlated with a lower rate of ground-level ozone pollution.
 The authors compared pediatric hospitalization rates during the 17 days of the Olympics with a baseline period four weeks before and four weeks after. They found that during the Games, state Medicaid claims for visits to doctors decreased nearly 42 percent, while visits for other acute conditions declined by insignificant amounts.
 This correlated with a 22.5 percent decrease in peak weekday morning traffic and a 28 percent decline in peak daily ozone concentrations. The weather did not differ significantly. 
 Sara Louise Lazarus can affirm such statistics anecdotally. After moving from the Upper West Side to Millburn, N.J., her son's asthma has clearly improved. ''He has far fewer needs to use the nebulizer or his puffers,'' she said.
 Her husband can't get over how clean the house is, because the dust and soot that used to accumulate in the city doesn't seem to gather nearly as fast. ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''People drive like a mile, and then go to the gym,'' said Mary Murphy of Rockville Centre. She drops her daughter, Susan, off at South Side High School on her way to work. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 5)Drawing (Drawing by Jim Starr)Chart: ''Expanding in the Suburbs''A RAND Corporation study found that people who live in sprawling areas are more likely to complain of chronic health problems related to lack of exercise than people who live in cities. But a 2003 survey by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found little difference between the New York region's suburbs and the city's five boroughs -- with the exception of Manhattan, where far fewer people were considered overweight.2003 data
 figures for New York are preliminaryNEW YORK CITY: ManhattanAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 42%Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78%NEW YORK CITY: QueensAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 68NEW YORK CITY: Staten IslandAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 74NEW YORK CITY: BrooklynAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 59Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70NEW YORK CITY: BronxAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 63Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 63SURROUNDING COUNTIES: NassauAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 52Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: SuffolkAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 57Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78SURROUNDING COUNTIES: WestchesterAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 54Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 80SURROUNDING COUNTIES: BergenAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 55Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: HudsonAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 56Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70SURROUNDING COUNTIES: Fairfield (2002)Adult residents who were overweight or obese: Data Not AvailableAdults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 88(Sources by New York, New Jersey and Connecticut Health Departments)(pg. 5)Map of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut highlights New York City. (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SUBURBS (88%); CITIES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); ARTHRITIS (66%); HYPERTENSION (61%) Medicine and Health; Urban Areas; Suburbs; Research; Exercise

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) Rand Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: Deborah (Dr) Cohen; Roland Sturm; Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



574 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Six Months, And Still Glittering

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
GOLD is having its best run in more than 16 years, thanks a great deal to the weakening dollar.
 The price of gold has been more than $400 an ounce for 170 consecutive days, the longest such run since the 581 days from Feb. 19, 1987, to Sept. 22, 1988. The current run began on Sept. 10; the dollar has fallen 7.4 percent against the euro in that time, while the price of gold has risen 8.4 percent. 
 But interest in gold is still concentrated in Asia. In the United States, the demand for jewelry, measured in ounces bought, fell 0.7 percent last year, according to the World Gold Council. It dropped 5.7 percent in Italy and 3.9 percent in Britain. In contrast, jewelry demand rose 17.6 percent in India, 11.5 percent in China, 15.2 percent in Hong Kong and 15 percent in Taiwan.

MEMORIES -- JPMorgan Funds, the mutual fund arm of JPMorgan Asset Management, does not want to be forgotten. So it has sent a small present to the broker-dealers and other financial intermediaries that sell its mutual funds: 128-megabit flash-memory sticks. The total of 20,000 gifts is equal to 2,560 gigabytes of memory, or enough to store about 16 of the 18 miles of books at the Strand Book Store in New York.
 The memory sticks are part of a marketing package sent to herald the completion of the merger of JPMorgan Funds and One Group Mutual Funds, which came to J.P. Morgan Chase in the merger with Bank One.
 ''JPMorgan has not had a strong association with mutual funds in the past,'' said Kristen Batteria, a spokeswoman. ''This is the chance to say that we have arrived. And we want it to be noticed.''
 The flash memories, which cost $17 apiece ($340,000 for all of them), include a video presentation of the campaign's theme, ''What it means to invest.'' How long the recipients will keep that video and other included mutual fund information is unclear -- one flash memory gift can hold more than 60 high-resolution family photographs.

DATA CHECK -- The employment report for February is due Friday. The consensus Wall Street forecast is for 225,000 new payroll jobs, according to Bloomberg News, up from the 146,000 created in January.
 If that is the case, the average monthly job creation since January 2001, when President Bush was inaugurated for his first term, will have inched up to 6,300.
 The 146,000 new jobs in January put his average monthly job creation into the plus category for the first time, at 1,800. 
 The markets will get a reading on the manufacturing sector on Tuesday and the service sector on Thursday. The Federal Reserve's favorite inflation measure, the quarterly core personal consumption price index, is due on Monday; it rose 1.5 percent last year and is a reason that Fed policy makers argue that inflation is under control. Two other inflation barometers, worker productivity and unit labor costs for the fourth quarter, are due on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks monthly change in nonfarm payrolls since 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); JOB CREATION (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); FINE JEWELRY (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSUMPTION (71%); BOOKSTORES (70%); EURO (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (77%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



575 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Life at the Top

BYLINE: By Michael Marmot. 
Michael Marmot, a professor of epidemiology and public health atUniversity College London, is the author of ''The Status Syndrome: How SocialStanding Affects Our Health and Longevity.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
IT'S that time when the world holds its breath: the annual ritual when we wait to see which glittering and famous person will become even more glittering and more famous. But the Academy Awards are more than just a spectator sport. They are a matter of life and death. On average, the winners live four years longer than nominees who don't win. 
 The Oscar winners are a quirky example of a phenomenon that is remarkably widespread: the higher your status in the social hierarchy the better your health and the longer you live. It appears to be a global syndrome. Americans with more income or education have better health than Americans with less; a Swedish Ph.D. graduate has longer life expectancy than a Swede with a master's degree; a British civil servant at the top of the employment hierarchy has greater longevity than one not quite at the top; health has been improving for Russians with university education, getting worse for those without. The reason the Oscar winners are so interesting is that they give insight into what is going on. 
 We are used to thinking that poverty is bad for health. Indeed it is. Life expectancy in some sub-Saharan African countries is less than 40 years compared with 80 years or more for people in the best-off countries. By these standards even poor Americans are not poor, yet they have shorter lives, as much as 20 years shorter, than richer Americans. The unsuccessful Oscar nominees, or the Swedish master's graduates, or the second-from-the-top civil servants, are certainly not poor. Yet each of these groups has worse health than those above them in the hierarchy. There is a social gradient in health that runs from the top to the bottom of society and affects all of us.
 A way to understand this link between status and health is to think of three fundamental human needs: health, autonomy and opportunity for full social participation. All the usual suspects affect health -- material conditions, smoking, diet, physical activity and the like -- but autonomy and participation are two other crucial influences on health; and the lower the social status, the less autonomy and the less social participation. By participation I include the positive feedback one receives from social recognition and being a valuable member of society.
 To understand the power of this force, consider the disparity that exists among Oscar winners themselves.
 In their work, Donald Redelmeier and Sheldon Singh, the two scientists who studied the Oscar winners, also showed that the life-enhancing effect did not extend to screenwriters who won the prize. To understand why, try to name a screenwriter who has won an Oscar, much less what he or she wore to the Academy Awards ceremony. It's likely that you can't because screenwriters get little recognition, award winners or not. As writers from F. Scott Fitzgerald to Joan Didion and John Gregory Dunne have told us, screenwriters are at the bottom of the Hollywood totem pole. A successful novelist told me he writes books for satisfaction and recognition and screenplays for money. The satisfaction and recognition count more.
 Differences in autonomy and social participation underlie the other examples of the social gradient in health. High-grade civil servants have more control over their working lives than those below them in the hierarchy. Higher control is associated with lower risk of heart disease, back pain, mental illness and ailments that make people stay home from work. Autonomy and participation have a direct effect on the body's stress pathways, which, in turn, affect the biological pathways that increase risk of heart and other diseases.
 As bad as poverty is for health, what is at issue here is inequality. The link between inequality and health has profound implications. No one is in favor of poverty. Inequality is different. Libertarians might justify it as simply the result of policies that were pursued for other reasons, like freedom from state interference. Some economists justify it as providing incentives for the wealth producers to raise all boats. Some businessmen claim that low wages mean low costs to business and hence greater competitiveness. For some any justification would be cant -- they like inequality because they are on top.
 Those who argue that inequality is simply an inevitable part of life should not be complacent. Inequality, it seems, harms health. In this regard, it's worth noting that the United States ranks 27th in the world in life expectancy -- behind countries with half the national income per capita of the United States and with a fraction of the expenditure on medical care, according to the United Nations 2004 Human Development Index. A lot of factors are at play in life expectancy, but it is notable that all but three of the 26 countries preceding the United States have more equal income distributions. These income inequalities indicate broader social inequalities.
 The most egregious effects of inequality in the United States are seen on the streets of the inner cities among people with little hope for the future. The more subtle but far- reaching effects are seen in workers with insecure jobs; in people who fear that major illness will be a financial catastrophe; in poor or even middle-class people whose lives offer them little opportunity for control or meaningful social participation. These inequalities are in part inequalities in income, to be sure. But it is not just inequality of incomes that is at issue. More fundamentally these inequalities indicate a society that works well for those at the top, and far less well for everybody else.
 My level of sympathy for the almost-did-it millionaire actors is, shall I say, appropriate to their misfortune. That is why, as the glitterati step out of their limousines on Oscar night, my thoughts will be elsewhere.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing By Michael Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); WRITERS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (75%); AFRICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



576 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: In Fort Lauderdale, a Skyline Grows

BYLINE: By NANCY BETH JACKSON

DATELINE: Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 

 BODY:
THE prehistoric aborigines who inhabited South Florida believed that the Himmarshee River here appeared overnight after the earth shook violently and was whipped by strong winds. 
 Matthew Carone, an artist born in Hoboken, N.J., who came to the resort city in 1951 as a lifeguard, feels the same about the urban skyline looming over his 1920's cottage in Rio Vista, one of the city's oldest neighborhoods. He looked up recently to discover that the twinkling lights weren't stars but high-rise condominiums, bank towers and office buildings.
 ''I would see a building going up now and then, but it wasn't a change, just a building; then one night I noticed I had a real skyline,'' said Mr. Carone, who remembers when the tallest building was the eight-story Governor's Club Hotel. Downtown's latest behemoth is the 42-story Las Olas River House luxury condominium. 
 In truth, the Himmarshee River, now called the New River, did appear overnight; geologists believe that it came into being when an earthquake exposed an underground channel. But Mr. Carone's instant skyline actually took decades.
 By the 1970's, the downtown was dead, much of it razed in order to build a proposed mall and parking garage. After that plan failed, the city was left with an abundance of empty lots. The downtown was a void. ''We really didn't have a base to create from -- we didn't have the stock,'' said Chris Wren, executive director of the Downtown Development Authority, created in 1965. The goal, he said, was to create ''a full-service downtown that doesn't shut down when the workers go home.'' 
 Local planners, politicians and developers who fueled the transformation had a simple plan: build it and they will come -- but don't build it all at once. Government offices, courts, financial and educational institutions, cultural attractions and nightlife had to be in place before people could be lured to luxury condos. The new generation of downtowners is only beginning to move in.
 ''I learned that vision is fairly easy,'' said R. Emmett McTigue, a second-generation real estate broker at M.R. McTigue & Company and a veteran of local planning boards. ''It's the timing that's difficult.'' His family arrived here 80 years ago.
 Many key players are homegrown, rooted in the development culture that created this city in the first place. Fort Lauderdale, which is 25 miles north of Miami, was given its shape early in the 20th century when Charles Green Rhodes, a pioneer developer, dredged marshes and dumped landfill to form Fort Lauderdale's canals. 
 Terry Stiles, who inherited his father's development company, spurred downtown growth in the 1980's by building the first office towers and recently sold out a 30-story condominium. Charles Palmer, who first kissed a girl in the elevator of his grandfather's Governor's Club, is completing the 38-floor Las Olas Grand condo. Even the mayor, James Naugle, whose family owned a paint store in the old downtown, is a real estate broker.
 H. Wayne Huizenga, owner of the Miami Dolphins, among other things, gave his hometown a jump-start when he based his various businesses in the new towers and contributed to the new science museum and performing arts center. 
 The development core, divided by New River, is a ragged rectangle, about 400 acres, but it has affected nearby areas, including an African-American neighborhood in the northwest and the tourist-packed shops and restaurants of Las Olas Boulevard, east of Route 1 and north of the river. Historically, most commercial activity was on the north bank, but the new downtown has residential and office towers on both sides of the river. The Riverwalk Park meanders about a mile along both sides of the river. 
 A tunnel, two drawbridges and a railroad bridge connect the two banks, but clogged arteries are a major fear. Water taxis and a free trolley have been introduced to ease congestion. A light-transit system is being studied. 
 Traffic is bound to increase as the new residential units come online. In the last five years, about 5,000 units have been built, or are being developed. Prices range from around $200,000 to $7 million. Mayor Naugle estimates that 40 percent are being bought by downsizing baby boomers, another 40 percent are being bought by people who will use them as second homes, and 20 percent by investors. 
 Whether the mix is healthy for the future of the city's downtown is not clear. Some say it is not. ''Some people will live downtown, some will work there, some will find entertainment there, but very few will do all three,'' said Jaap Vos, chairman of the Department of Urban and Regional Planning at Florida Atlantic University. ''My best estimate is that about 50 percent of the buyers downtown are short- or long-term investors. The question is, when is the bubble going to burst?''
 As future developments are discussed, many worry about a downtown of concrete canyons rather than parks and tropical foliage.
 ''If we don't have green space, we won't have a viable city -- it's like having a Central Park or not,'' said Margi Glavovic Nothard, an assistant professor in the Florida Atlantic University urban planning program. 
 Still, many of the new downtowners eagerly trade lawns for bird's-eye views of the city. 
 Pauline Douglas, a 22-year resident of the Fort Lauderdale suburbs who is moving into River House from a gated community, won't miss hours spent in commuter traffic. Now she and her husband, Richard, will be able to walk to shops, restaurants and concerts and be five minutes from work. 
 They also bought an apartment in another building downtown for their only child, Monique, a recent college graduate who likes the downtown nightlife without late-night drives home. 
 ''In five years I wouldn't be able to afford to live downtown the rate things are going,'' Mrs. Douglas said. ''Everyone wants to live downtown.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH-RISE HEAVEN -- With the backdrop of new construction, dozens of yachts make their way down the New River. Right, the historic Stranahan House, a trading post from 1901, is dwarfed by urban development.
 LUXURY CONDOS -- A skateboarder demonstrates his skills in a park located at the base of the 42-story Las Olas River House in downtown Fort Lauderdale. (Photographs by Richard Patterson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (65%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (62%); LANDFILLS (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) 

PERSON: Nancy Beth Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Fort Lauderdale (Fla); New River (Fort Lauderdale, Fla)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



577 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY FOOTLIGHTS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 649 words

BYLINE: By Margo Nash

 BODY:

Navel-Gazing
 ''When you say Princeton, you don't automatically think of belly dancing,'' says Cristina Moldovan, a Princeton engineering student and belly dancer, who performs with Raks Odalisque, the college's Middle Eastern dance troupe. About 20 Princeton students and staff members perform with the troupe, both on and off campus. Ms. Moldovan says the dancing gives students a chance ''to let go, and not think of class.'' 
 Fanciers of the belly dance will get a chance to watch the troupe Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m., as these economics, psychology and biology majors don their veils and click their zills at Frist Theater at Princeton. Raks Odalisque was founded six years ago by students taking noncredit belly-dance classes offered by the university. The teacher was Kim Leary, who dances professionally under the name ''Alexia''; she still teaches the course. 
 Ms. Leary, who is also the troupe's adviser, said that at least one student has gone on to become a professional belly dancer: Abigail Keyes, who graduated in 2002, danced with Raks Odalisque while majoring in Near Eastern studies at Princeton She now dances as ''Asharah'' in the Washington area in addition to working for the federal government. Information: (609)258-1742.

A Real Ballantine Blast
 Ballantines don't have fancy weddings at home the way they used to, according to Andrew V. Ballantine, whose great-grandparents Jeannette and John Holme Ballantine were part of the Newark family that owned a beer-brewing business. 
 The Ballantines lived in a brick and limestone mansion that is now part of the Newark Museum. An exhibit about weddings opens at the museum Feb. 27, and features a Ballantine wedding. ''Here Comes the Bride: Fairy Tales, Folklore and Wedding Traditions'' showcases weddings in China, Morocco, Korea, Japan and Victorian America. The American part recreates the 1899 wedding of Alice Ballantine to Henry Young Jr. in the Ballantine home. Alice was Andrew Ballantine's great-aunt. 
 Mr. Ballantine said that these days weddings in his family take place in churches and restaurants. ''Nobody in my generation,'' he added, ''had someone build a room in the house for them. That is what my great-grandmother did to keep her daughter at home. They added on a ballroom on the second floor.'' Information: (973)596-6550.

Man's Best Model
 Starting with his dashing Weimaraner Man Ray, William Wegman's dogs have been his muses, best friends and models, faithfully holding poses and enduring every manner of get-up in his photographs and other projects. Wegman fans have taken great interest in his dogs' family tree, which goes back several dog generations to Fay Ray, the ''southern beauty'' Mr. Wegman acquired after Man Ray died. 
 But do Mr. Wegman's current crop of dogs like his old friend, Patterson Sims, who is director of the Montclair Art Museum -- where Mr. Wegman will be giving a lecture and signing books on March 2 at 7 p.m. Not wanting to speak for his dogs, Mr. Wegman suggested: ''I bet they would like him. He's sort of a kind person. But one of my dogs, Candy, is afraid of tallness, and he is a tall person, and people with hats alarm her. The other dogs are fine with any height.'' Information: (973)746-5555.

Garden State Odyssey
 Can a young English professor find happiness by teaching Homer to undergraduates in New Jersey? The answer is revealed in ''Everyone's Depressed,'' a slightly autobiographical comedy written by Janet Balakian, a Kean University English professor, and filmed at Kean in Union, Short Hills, Hoboken and New York, with the climax taking place on the George Washington Bridge. 
 The film was directed by Yanna Kroyt Brandt, an Emmy Award-winning producer, and filmed in 2001 and finished last year; it will be screened at Van Fossan Theater, Bloomfield College, on March 5 at 2 p.m. Information: (973)748-9000. Margo Nash


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); DANCERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); THEATER (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); FAMILY (74%); DOGS (71%); EXHIBITIONS (68%); FOLKLORE (67%) Dancing

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%) Princeton University; Raks Odalisque (Dance Co)

PERSON: Christina Moldovan; Margo Nash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (68%) NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) JAPAN (76%); CHINA (76%); MOROCCO (76%); UNITED STATES (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



578 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2782 words

HEADLINE: Where You Live Can Hurt You

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
SARA LOUISE LAZARUS lost a lot of weight last year, but she has gained some of it back since moving from her apartment on the Upper West Side to an idyllic 100-year-old colonial-style house with a leafy yard in Millburn.
 It's possible, she mused the other day, that the weight gain has to do with her newfound domesticity. She has become a kitchen goddess, contentedly cooking breakfast, dinner and desserts for her husband, David Seader, and their first grade son, Sam. In New York, the family ate out a lot. 
 But, she has to admit, she is also walking less. The half-mile, 10-minute walk to the train station that seemed so inviting in the summer and fall now seems gloomy and slightly menacing in winter, as darkness falls earlier. 
 ''It's next to the South Mountain Reservation,'' said Ms. Lazarus, who commutes to New York, where she is a director and teacher at the Circle in the Square Theater School. ''It's all woods and dark, and you feel like you're in 'The Blair Witch Project.' So there goes the walking.''
 Right about now, you can imagine Dr. Roland Sturm, a senior economist at the RAND Corporation, nodding knowingly. Dr. Sturm and a colleague, Dr. Deborah Cohen, a RAND researcher and physician, released a study last fall that found that people who live in sprawling suburban areas are less healthy in certain areas -- mostly associated with exercise, or the lack of it -- than those who live in compact urban neighborhoods.
 The study, published in the journal Public Health, was based on lengthy telephone surveys that questioned adults about their physical and mental health between 1998 and 2001. Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen analyzed data from more than 8,600 people in 38 metropolitan areas.
 The researchers concluded that suburbanites were more likely to report chronic health problems, like high blood pressure, arthritis, headaches, migraines and breathing problems than people who lived in the city, even after accounting for mitigating factors like race, age, economic status and the weather, which might influence how much exercise people got.
 Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen said their findings suggested that sprawl ages a community by four years. The more quintessentially suburban one's community, they concluded, the worse for one's health. The worst possible place to live, they said, was the suburban ideal: a cul-de-sac with few sidewalks that empties into a big access road, so that residents have to drive to shopping, school and work. 
 Conversely, people were healthier in places like Chicago, Boston and San Francisco -- possibly because they were more likely to walk to work or take public transportation, according to the study, than in places like Atlanta; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and San Bernardino, Calif., where there was more sprawl and more reliance on cars. The tendency of people to be healthier also holds for very compact places like New York City, Dr. Sturm said, although by virtue of its compactness, it is something of an anomaly.

A Cause for Skepticism
 The study gains some power from being so counterintuitive. It would seem to be a given that living in a single-family house is a step above most apartments; that green grass is a better place for children to play than the asphalt jungle; that it is healthier to be surrounded by tall trees than by tall skyscrapers. But its conclusions have been met with skepticism by some experts for drawing cause-and-effect links where they may be dubious. 
 ''My reaction to this is it's intriguing but certainly needs a lot more explanation,'' said Dr. David Ackman, Nassau County's health commissioner. ''This is -- in general -- the weakest type of epidemiologic study. It says there's an association, but we don't know if it's causative. These sorts of studies are generally thought of as hypothesis-generating studies. They raise questions that may or may not merit further investigation.'' 
 Another criticism, which the authors acknowledge, is that the study ignored variations among micro-environments -- neighborhoods within neighborhoods.
 A look at county health statistics for New York State suggests that New York City's five boroughs vary so widely in lifestyle and health that it might be difficult to generalize about the city as a whole.
 The authors of the RAND study created a ''sprawl index'' for 38 metropolitan areas, with a lower score denoting more sprawl. In the New York region, the cities studied were New York, Newark and Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, Conn. 
 On their list, Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif., had the worst sprawl score, at 14.2, followed by Greensboro, N.C., and Atlanta. Boston (126.9), San Francisco (146.8) and New York City (177.8) are at the other extreme.
 Also relatively near the top for sprawl were Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, which ranked sixth, with a score of 68.4. Rochester (77.9), Syracuse (80.3) and Newark (81.3) ranked slightly better but still among the most sprawling third of the list.
 The study also conducted a ''sensitivity analysis'' to determine whether factors like unemployment, English-speaking skills, the percentage of homeowners and the number of liquor stores or bars would change the results; it did not. 
 ''We see higher incidence of chronic conditions in areas that are more sprawling,'' Dr. Sturm said in a recent interview from his office in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Especially pain conditions. They're stiff, they have joint pain, hypertension, heart conditions'' -- conditions, he said, that could be related to a lack of physical activity.
 Yes, Dr. Sturm conceded, the term ''soccer mom'' was invented to describe suburban women. So doesn't it matter that suburban children play organized sports or that their parents go to the gym?
 Dr. Sturm argues that it doesn't, at least not enough. More important than weekend exercise and going to the gym, he says, is what he calls ''utilitarian walking,'' the few minutes several times a day spent walking to the subway, including up and down the subway stairs, or to the corner grocery store or a restaurant that people living in urban areas more typically do.
 ''There is less utilitarian walking in sprawling areas,'' he said. ''People don't think of it as exercise, but it makes a huge difference. Just the 10 additional minutes a day that you go to the store and back easily add up to a couple of pounds a year in terms of body weight.''
 When children play soccer, he notes, they may stand around a lot. ''During those 30 minutes that they actually play soccer each week,'' he said, ''they may not spend even half the amount of energy that another kid spends walking to school." Trisha Beatty, who lives in a secluded development of large homes near Glastonbury, Conn., confesses to being torn about the advantages and disadvantages of suburban living, but like other mothers, she says she and her husband have chosen the suburbs as a safe, comfortable place to raise their two children.
 ''I agree with the premise, but regretfully,'' she says of the sprawl study's finding that people walk less in the suburbs.
 The Beatty family epitomizes what the sprawl study defines as the worst possible situation: their big, beautiful house is in a cul-de-sac, with no sidewalks and no streetlights, two miles down a country road from the main access route to the nearby towns of Glastonbury, Hebron and Bolton. The closest store is about five miles away.
 Sports are certainly celebrated by people in the area. There are hiking trails and mountain biking nearby. But routine walking is difficult. 
 Ms. Beatty, an administrator of subsidized housing for the elderly who commutes to work in Hartford several times a week, is an exception to the non-pedestrian culture around her. She has mapped out a three-mile walking route and tries to walk or jog it three times a week, sometimes with a friend. But just walking in her car-centered neighborhood requires courage. She has to walk along the shoulder of the road, and when cars come, she and her friend move into single file. In icy weather, she goes to Curves for a half-hour workout. 
 She is not a fan of gas-guzzling, air-polluting S.U.V.'s, but she and her husband bought one after moving in 10 years ago, because their house is on a steep hill, and without all-wheel-drive, they sometimes had to park the car at the bottom of the hill in bad weather. As for her two daughters, 13 and 16, they take a bus and a van to school.
 ''We love our house,'' she said. ''We love the neighborhood. There are definitely positives to living here. But I can see myself living somewhere else, too. I keep telling the kids that as soon as they get older, I'm selling this house, and I am going to the city or something.''
 Mary Murphy, who lives in Rockville Centre, N.Y., often marvels at how dependent she and her neighbors are on their cars. People become so accustomed to driving, she said, that they will drive to places just two blocks away, unthinkable in the city, if only because of the scarcity of parking.
 ''People drive like a mile, and then go to the gym,'' she said. ''Why don't you just walk that mile and save the money? Or they take their cars and go to someplace where they can jog, like the high school track, but they drive to that, so they're wasting gas and polluting the air.''
 Ms. Murphy has lived in Rockville Centre for 14 years, but when it comes to exercise, she still looks back fondly at her days in Ozone Park, Queens.
 In Queens, she said, there were always little stores two blocks away to walk to for necessities, while on Long Island, she has to go to the main drag a mile away.

Education, Affluence and Sprawl
 Westchester County's health commissioner, Joshua Lipsman, was willing to endorse some of Dr. Sturm's conclusions, saying he had no doubt that a link could be found between a heavy reliance on cars for transportation and obesity.
 But like Dr. Ackman of Nassau County, he suggested that factors like education and affluence might compensate for the effects of sprawl. Dr. Ackman noted that Nassau scores well on health measures, which he attributes mainly to its affluence, since affluence, as Dr. Sturm acknowledges, strongly correlates with good health.
 His view gets some support from federal health data. In the two key factors associated with sprawl -- exercise and weight -- Westchester and Nassau Counties score very favorably compared with other counties in New York. They are topped only by Manhattan, according to preliminary data gathered for the 2003 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, a telephone survey of the health of Americans compiled by the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in cooperation with selected counties across the country.
 Asked whether they were overweight, only 42.3 percent of Manhattan residents said they were, the lowest percentage in the New York City area. In second place was Nassau, with 52.1 percent, followed by Westchester with 53.6 percent.
 In Bergen County, N.J., 55 percent of residents reported being overweight or obese. In Hudson County, the numbers were about the same, with 56 percent reporting that they were overweight or obese.
 The other four boroughs of New York City did somewhat worse than the suburbs, with 62.7 percent of Bronx residents reporting that they were overweight, 58.6 percent of Brooklyn residents, 57.7 percent of Staten Island residents and 57.6 percent of Queens residents. Suffolk County had an obesity rate similar to most of New York City, at 57 percent.
 In a related question -- whether people had engaged in any leisure-time physical activity or exercise during the preceding 30 days -- Fairfield County, Conn., came in at the top, with only 12 percent saying they had been sedentary. In Westchester 20 percent said they had been sedentary, followed by a tie between Manhattan and Suffolk, both with 21.7 percent sedentary residents. Next came Bergen, with 24 percent; Nassau, 24.4 percent; and Staten Island, 26.2 percent sedentary. 
 Many suburban dwellers say they would like to integrate exercise into their routines but find themselves stymied by a suburban terrain that doesn't lend itself to walking.
 For Stephanie Brody, an investment banker, moving to Scarsdale, N.Y., six months ago from the Upper West Side was the right decision for her four children -- 5-year-old twins, a 3-year-old and a baby. But she sees an exercise divide between adults and children: The adults, she suspects, get less, while the children get more.
 In Manhattan, she said, taking her children to play in Central Park could be a headache. ''You can't go to Central Park with three or four kids as easily as opening up the door to your backyard and calling up the kid next door to go out and play.''
 But her new street doesn't have sidewalks, making it hazardous to go out for a walk with the baby in the stroller. She tries to walk her children to school when possible. ''You want to teach your kids that walking is something that is part of their normal existence,'' she said. ''You have to go out of your way to instill that here.''
 Likewise, Ms. Lazarus in Millburn reluctantly confirmed many of the sprawl study's conclusions, if only anecdotally. Her family now has a yard, graced by two towering pine trees, and she likes looking out the window at the birds and squirrels competing for seeds at her new bird feeder. ''The joy of waking up in the morning and looking out the window,'' she said of her neighborhood. ''We have views and this backyard that just goes on and on and on and on. It's very soul-feeding. I feel wonderful being here.''
 But having a backyard also makes her family more reclusive than in the city. Her son, Sam, doesn't go to the playground nearly as often as he did on the Upper West Side. And sometimes, now that the weather is cold, it is easier to drive the three blocks to his school than to walk. In Manhattan, they took the subway two stops and then walked five blocks round trip to Sam's school. Without the street life of the city, walking seems less connected, less engaging. ''The one thing I will say about suburban life is that I miss the people of the city,'' she said.
 But Ms. Lazarus just keeps thinking about the well-being she feels looking at the view from her windows. ''It's so delicious, and the snow is so gorgeous,'' she said. ''I look at it, and I feel healthy.''

When Asthmatics Breathe Easier
 ALTHOUGH the authors of the sprawl study did not conduct any independent research into the connection between sprawling suburbs, health and air pollution, they did examine evidence from other studies.
 In general, they said, other research has shown that sprawling areas tend to have more pollution from sources like automobiles. So there is circumstantial evidence, the authors suggest, for a link between pollution and the higher rates of breathing problems and headaches they found in sprawling areas.
 ''Very far out, yeah, they probably have better air because they do not have the stationary sources of pollution like power plants,'' Dr. Roland Sturm, one of the authors of the study, said. ''But why is there so much smog in Los Angeles? That's because of the driver.''
 Of course, there may be other contributing factors to asthma rates, like poverty, inferior health care and other sources of pollution. In 2001, Nassau County had just 53.9 pediatric hospitalizations for asthma per 100,000 population, compared with 95 in Manhattan and 159.2 in the Bronx. 
 Dr. Sturm cited a study published in February 2001 in The Journal of the American Medical Association on the impact of rerouting automobiles in an effort to decrease congestion during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
 The study found that hospitalizations for childhood asthma were reduced during that period and that this correlated with a lower rate of ground-level ozone pollution.
 The authors compared pediatric hospitalization rates during the 17 days of the Olympics with a base-line period four weeks before and four weeks after. They found that during the Games, state Medicaid claims for visits to doctors decreased nearly 42 percent, while visits for other acute conditions declined by insignificant amounts.
 This correlated with a 22.5 percent decrease in peak weekday morning traffic and a 28 percent decline in peak daily ozone concentrations. The weather did not differ significantly. 
 Sara Louise Lazarus can affirm such statistics anecdotally. After moving from the Upper West Side to Millburn, N.J., her son's asthma has clearly improved. ''He has far fewer needs to use the nebulizer or his puffers,'' she said.
 Her husband can't get over how clean the house is, because the dust and soot that used to accumulate in the city doesn't seem to gather nearly as fast. Anemona Hartocollis


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Brody family, above, of Scarsdale, N.Y., loves the lure of the backyard. ''People drive like a mile, and then go to the gym,'' said Mary Murphy, below, of Rockville Centre, N.Y. She drops her daughter, Susan, off at South Side High School on her way to work. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez, above, and Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Drawing by Jim Starr)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Expanding in the Suburbs''A RAND Corporation study found that people who live in sprawling areas are more likely to complain of chronic health problems related to lack of exercise than people who live in cities. But a 2003 survey by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found little difference between the New York region's suburbs and the city's five boroughs -- with the exception of Manhattan, where far fewer people were considered overweight.2003 data
 figures for New York are preliminaryNEW YORK CITY: ManhattanAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 42%Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78%NEW YORK CITY: QueensAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 68NEW YORK CITY: Staten IslandAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 74NEW YORK CITY: BrooklynAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 59Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70NEW YORK CITY: BronxAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 63Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 63SURROUNDING COUNTIES: NassauAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 52Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: SuffolkAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 57Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78SURROUNDING COUNTIES: WestchesterAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 54Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 80SURROUNDING COUNTIES: BergenAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 55Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: HudsonAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 56Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70SURROUNDING COUNTIES: Fairfield (2002)Adult residents who were overweight or obese: data not availableAdults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 88(Sources by New York, New Jersey and Connecticut Health Departments)(pg. 8)Map of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut highlights New York City. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SUBURBS (88%); CITIES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); ARTHRITIS (66%); HYPERTENSION (61%) Medicine and Health; Suburbs; Urban Areas ; Research; Exercise; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) Rand Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: Deborah (Dr) Cohen; Roland Sturm; Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



579 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Q&A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Rent of $2,000 or More Under Stabilization

 BODY:

Q. I live in a rent-stabilized apartment and pay $1,950 a month. With my next lease renewal, which comes in 2007, the rent will exceed $2,000. Does that mean my apartment is removed from stabilization at the time of the lease renewal in 2007, or will the apartment be taken out of stabilization at the beginning of the next renewal in 2009? . . . Ryo Hayashi, Manhattan.

A. Lucas A. Ferrara, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, said that occupied rent-regulated apartments in which the legal rent is $2,000 or more may be deregulated only if the tenant's adjusted gross annual household income exceeds $175,000 in each of the two preceding calendar years. (A vacant stabilized apartment is deregulated if the rent is $2,000 or more.)
 If the letter writer's annual household income is less than $175,000, the landlord cannot deregulate the apartment just because the rent reaches $2,000, Mr. Ferrara said. Even if the writer met the income threshold for two years running, and the rent reaches $2,000, deregulation is not automatic. 
 ''A landlord is required to serve a tenant with an income certification form on or before May 1 of a given year,'' Mr. Ferrara said, adding that if, after the form is returned, the landlord believes the apartment is eligible for deregulation, he must file a deregulation petition with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal no later than June 30 of that same year.
 If a tenant does not respond within 30 days, the landlord can file the petition, and the agency asks state tax officials to review the tenant's tax returns. ''If a landlord misses this window period, the process is delayed until the following year,'' he said. 
 So if the rent reaches $2,000 on or before May 1, 2007, and the landlord has served the income certification form and determined that the tenant's household income exceeded $175,000 in the preceding two years, the landlord can apply for deregulation until June 30. But if the rent reaches $2,000 after May 1, the landlord would have to wait until the next year to file the certification form and the deregulation petition. The deregulation becomes effective only when the state agency issues a deregulation order.

Enlarging Bedroom Windows

Q. My wife and I live in a ground-floor co-op apartment in Park Slope and would like to enlarge the bedroom windows to let in more light. I know we need an engineer's report to present to the other owners. But do we also have to present the plan to the city? . . . W.J. Hunter, Brooklyn.

A. Allen H. Brill, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, said that the alteration will require the approval of the co-op and a permit from the New York City Department of Buildings. And to get either, he said, the letter writer will have to submit plans from a registered architect or professional engineer detailing the work to be done.
 Also, Mr. Brill said, if the co-op is in a landmark district -- which is possible since Park Slope has a number of them -- the alteration will require the approval of the Landmarks Preservation Commission.

Renting in a Co-op

Q. The apartment I rent in a co-op was sold at auction. I just found out about this, even though I was trying to buy the apartment from the woman who owned it. It also appears that the man who won the auction does not intend to live in the apartment. It was stipulated at the auction, however, that the winner must occupy the apartment. I've asked the board to cancel the sale and have another auction so I have a chance to buy the apartment. Can the board do this? What are my rights as a tenant? . . . Barbara White, Manhattan.

A. Steven Troup, a Manhattan co-op lawyer, said that the failure of the co-op to notify the letter writer of the sale would not be grounds to set the auction aside. Mr. Troup added that if the terms of the auction indeed stipulated that the high bidder must occupy the apartment, the co-op can prohibit the winner from subletting the apartment.
 But Mr. Troup noted that if the letter writer is a rent-regulated tenant, she is entitled to remain in the apartment regardless of who won the auction. If she is not regulated, but has a lease, she is probably entitled to remain until the lease ends. 
 If she does not have a lease, Mr. Troup said, the new owner will probably be able to terminate the tenancy.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Stephen Schildbach) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (92%); RENT CONTROL (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); PETITIONS (86%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); APPROVALS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



580 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: The Savings Account Is Back. (No Laughing, Please.)

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
AFTER suffering through years of derisively low interest rates, people with cash on their hands may finally be able to get a decent return for parking their money safely in bank accounts or in money market funds.
 Such savers may still have a hard time coming out ahead, after taxes and inflation, but the overwhelming consensus is that the rate increases that the Federal Reserve began last June will continue and that such investments will become more attractive. ''Cash is king in a rising rate environment,'' said Peter G. Crane, vice president and managing editor of iMoneyNet in Westborough, Mass. ''Money funds and bank deposits are going to be the place to be.''
 Wise shopping in this marketplace is increasingly important, specialists say, because wide rate disparities have emerged among banks themselves, so it isn't always clear whether a money market fund or a bank is where you should put your money. 
 Last August, the average money market fund regained its traditional rate advantage over the average bank money market account and three-month certificate of deposit. (On average, the funds now yield 1.88 percent, while the banks, whose accounts are insured by the federal government, pay 0.55 percent.) But recently some Internet banks, which have lower overhead costs than traditional banks, have been raising their savings rates far above the average. 
 One of the most prominent of these banks, largely because of its heavy broadcast, print and direct-mail promotion, is ING Direct. (Its ubiquitous initials stand for the International Netherlands Group.) Just after Christmas, it offered a rate of 2.35 percent on its federally insured Orange savings account, with no fees or minimums; on Friday it raised that rate to 2.6 percent. 
 Another of the online offerings is from EmigrantDirect, a division of Emigrant Savings Bank of New York, which also has 36 brick-and-mortar branches. EmigrantDirect's American Dream savings account pays a ''variable'' 3 percent; the bank guarantees at least that rate for the rest of 2005 and contends that it is the highest nationally advertised annual percentage yield for unrestricted savings accounts paying interest from day of deposit to day of withdrawal. 
 Internet banks can often link an account to a customer's existing checking account at another bank, making it easy to move money by phone or online.
 Of course, when shopping for the best money-market fund or bank rate, be sure to check all the conditions. Western Financial Bank offers an account at 3 percent, though it requires a $5,000 minimum. Capital One has one at 2.65 percent, requiring a $10,000 minimum.
 Other rising competitors include MetLife Inc., one of the first insurance giants to acquire a bank. For a $5,000 minimum, MetLife Bank offers 2.50 percent on money market accounts.
 It does not claim to pay the most but trades instead on its strong brand name, its legions of agents to whom investors can talk and rates that are consistently competitive.
 ''Customers look for more than just the rate,'' said Shailendra Ghorpade, chief executive of the bank. ''We don't strive to be the highest. We don't want to offer a rate that is unsustainable, bouncing up and down.''
 Some institutions offer different rates for different account balances. In newspaper advertisements, M&T Bank of Buffalo offers a ''solid'' 3 percent interest rate, but the fine print notes that this is only for an account of $10,000 or more for three months. After that, the rate drops to a range of 1 percent to 1.49 percent, depending on the account's size. Accounts are also subject to fees not specified in the ads.
 Despite the new challenges from banks, money market mutual funds are making a strong comeback. Their rates have been rising quickly enough that the industry is almost certain to be posting in January and February its first two-month deposit inflow since the end of 2001.
 There is little mystery to yields on money funds. To find a rough average, said Mr. Crane of iMoneyNet, just take the Fed's overnight interest-rate target, 2.5 percent since Feb. 2, and subtract a half-percentage point for operational expenses. That current 2 percent yield is four times what investors were earning in mid-2003; he predicted that a 3 percent yield was almost certain by year-end. The rates being offered by money market funds include 2.51 percent for the PayPal money market fund; 2.25 percent for the Vanguard Prime fund and 2.08 percent for Fidelity Cash Reserves. Three Scudder money funds are paying 2.37 percent to 2.46 percent. 
 Banks, on the other hand, have more rate flexibility than the money market funds, and traditionally have cut their rates quickly when overall interest rates are declining or have raised them slowly when overall rates are climbing. But in the recent down cycle, rates fell so low that some banks didn't want to risk unduly antagonizing customers by cutting rates as much as the market was signaling. 
 Some money market funds, to keep returns in positive territory, similarly waived some fees when rates were near their ebb, though they have been restoring them more recently. Experts say that consumers who have a money market fund should make sure that an attractive yield doesn't come with unusually high costs. Bank accounts, meanwhile, can require outsize minimum deposits to avoid fees or may charge fees for inactive small accounts. 
 If you notice that your money account is still earning a fraction of 1 percent, it may be time to look for a better deal or to move the money elsewhere. Beyond money funds or banks, there are other alternatives: tax-exempt money funds, for example, or ultrashort bond funds, which may be only slightly riskier than money funds. 
 Employer-sponsored 401(k) plans often include stable-value funds, also known as guaranteed interest income funds or capital preservation funds. Investors should also look in the nooks and crannies of their portfolios for ways to enhance returns on their cash. 
 If you are the beneficiary of an insurance policy, for example, and have left your payout in an account that the insurance company kindly opened for you -- instead of cutting you a check -- the return may remain meager unless you act.
 One recent widower noticed the proceeds of about $64,000 from his wife's federal government life policy resting idly at 1.5 percent even after the Federal Reserve had raised rates six times. After inquiring, he was given a 3 percent rate not available to the general public or even the company's own employees and had to tie up the money only for six months. 
 OF course, the almost-unanimous view that short-term interest rates are headed higher could be wrong. But that seems unlikely, especially because Alan Greenspan, in his final year as Fed chairman, is presumably unwilling to risk any revival of inflation. 
 Bankrate.com, a Web site where investors can check all kinds of data on money rates, had this to say in early February, just after the latest quarter-point rate increase by the Federal Reserve:
 ''The Bankrate mantra remains the same -- stick with short-term C.D.'s, one year or less, to get the biggest bang for your investment,'' it said. ''Longer maturities have been a bit erratic, but slowly heading up. It's still not worth locking up money long term at these rates.'' 
 Mary Miller, a fixed-income strategist at T.Rowe Price, the investment manager in Baltimore, put it this way in a newsletter: ''We expect short-term rates to rise more than long-term rates'' this year, adding that ''by next summer, we think the federal funds rate could reach 3.5 percent.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Possible Reason to Save''Last August, the average money market fund regained its traditional rate advantage over the average bank money market account.Graph tracks rates for money market funds and bank money market accounts since 1995.(Sources by iMoneyNet
 Bankrate.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET BANKING (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); CHRISTMAS (67%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (90%); METLIFE INC (81%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); ING BANK FSB (54%); EMIGRANT SAVINGS BANK (53%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (90%); INGA (AMS) (90%); ING (NYSE) (90%); MET (NYSE) (81%); WFC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



581 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: South Florida's Sleepy Gambling Sports Look to Slots

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Fla., Feb. 26 

 BODY:
For a state that oozes slick entertainment options, Florida's gambling industry could almost be called quaint. Just ask Charles Bianchi, who says he flies to Las Vegas for thrills but here resorts to betting on greyhounds at a dreary old track. 
 ''This place don't have no class,'' Mr. Bianchi, 69, said the other day as he watched simulcast races from a barstool at the Hollywood Greyhound Race Track. ''It's on its way out, and there's only one chance for survival.''
 For Mr. Bianchi and many other Florida gamblers, that chance is a plan to bring slot machines to seven greyhound and horse tracks and jai alai frontons in South Florida. Backers say the plan will revive those musty sports, create thousands of jobs and provide a potent revenue stream for public schools. Voters in Broward and Miami-Dade Counties will decide in a referendum on March 8 whether to approve the plan, devised largely by track owners who have watched their industry languish since the 1980's. 
 It is not a new idea, but its impact in Florida -- with a robust economy and tourist trade, the nation's fourth-largest population and one of its most storied and diverse racing industries -- could be profound, supporters say. The state revenue from racetrack casinos, which proponents say could be $500 million a year, would be greater than anywhere but Pennsylvania, which has approved a plan to put slots at racetracks and other outlets for perhaps $1 billion a year in state profits.
 Other governors of big states, including Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, George E. Pataki of New York and Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, have embraced gambling expansions as a way to patch budget holes. In Maryland, where Gov. Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. has been an ardent supporter of slots, the House of Delegates voted on Friday to legalize slot machines. The House bill must be reconciled with one passed by the Senate before it wins final approval.
 But in Florida, Gov. Jeb Bush, a steadfast opponent of gambling, has attacked the slots plan, and even if voters approve it, he could still veto enabling legislation.
 In a letter to the Christian Coalition of South Florida last week, Mr. Bush said any gambling expansion would have ''a negative impact on the social fabric and economic health of our state,'' dismissed revenue projections as a ''hollow promise'' and warned of a ''snowball effect.'' 
 The track owners envision up to 3,000 slot machines per site, gussying up the betting halls and drawing crowds of locals and tourists who might otherwise spend money at the state's six Indian casinos. But opponents say, and devoted gamblers like Mr. Bianchi hope, that the proposal has broader implications. To start, it might expand options for the Indian casinos, which under current state law feature video bingo but cannot offer slots or table games. 
 The Miccosukee Tribe contends that if the state allows slots at tracks and frontons, Indian casinos automatically win that right, too, and possibly also the right to offer craps, roulette and blackjack, which are in the same category as slots under federal law. 
 A statewide ballot measure last November to authorize the referendum said that tax revenue from the slots would go to public education, a provision that helped it pass. But debate has been fierce about how to split the pot. And opponents have pointed to the state lottery, whose revenues were earmarked for schools when it began in 1994 but have not increased the overall education budget.
 Supporters are striving to raise awareness of the March 8 vote. A political action committee formed by South Florida tracks and frontons is spending several million dollars on publicity, painting pictures of money for classrooms and 18,000 new jobs. 
 Less organized is the opposition, a loose coalition of religious conservatives, school groups, local politicians and animal rights activists, who oppose horse and especially greyhound racing. Florida voters have rejected three gambling proposals since 1978; those were statewide referendums with far more strident opposition from religious groups.
 Those groups are strongest in North and Central Florida, and they may have decided against fighting so vigorously this time because only Broward and Miami-Dade Counties are involved. Slots would go to Flagler Dog Track, Miami Jai-Alai and Gulfstream Park in Miami-Dade and Calder Race Course, Dania Jai-Alai, Pompano Park Racing and the Hollywood dog track in Broward. 
 The most vocal opposition to date has come from No Casinos, a political action committee run by State Representative Randy Johnson, a Republican from Celebration. Mr. Johnson, whose district includes Walt Disney World and other theme parks that might feel threatened by a gambling expansion, wants to ask voters in 2006 to repeal their approval of a slots referendum. 
 ''This is not about anything other than cold hard cash for big out-of-state corporations,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 Daniel Adkins, a leader of the slots effort, likes to cite a study by Harrah's Entertainment that found Florida ranked seventh nationally in the number of residents who went on out-of-state gambling trips. Mr. Adkins also points to West Virginia, whose racing industry has been transformed since tracks won the right to have slots. He is the chief operating officer of Hartman & Tyner, a company that owns tracks in Michigan and West Virginia as well as the Hollywood track. 
 ''None of the doom-and-gloom predictions have come through,'' Mr. Adkins said. ''Crime did not go up, because when you put people to work, crime goes down.'' 
 But William Thompson, a public administration professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who studies the economics of gambling, said slots would hurt vulnerable populations, like the elderly and poor minorities, and Florida businesses. 
 ''The false thing about it all is the notion that money falls out of trees and we will have free money for our schools,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''The fact is, the money comes out of Florida pockets.''
 At the Hollywood track, most people interviewed said they disdained slots but would vote for the plan because it could lead to renovated race tracks, larger purses and, eventually, Las Vegas-style table gaming. 
 ''We need something to save these businesses that have been around for a long time, that have a history here,'' said Vincent Labate, 39, who said he had been a regular at the track for 20 years.
 History is one of the few things that tracks like Hollywood's can boast of at this point. It once drew visitors like Damon Runyon and Jayne Mansfield and took in up to $65 million a year in bets. A grandstand built in 1974 was the largest in the world for dog racing. 
 Now, the number of annual visitors during live racing season has dwindled to fewer than 100,000 from 500,000, mostly middle-aged and older men who would rather stay glued to the simulcast screens than watch live races. Mr. Adkins pointed out the dining rooms that used to brim with couples ordering surf and turf, the betting windows where 300 clerks once worked, the 4,400 seats that few frequent now.
 In the grandstand, Phil Ferreira, 76, who has been watching the Hollywood races for half a century, said the track might as well get slots so that the younger crowd would come. 
 ''Now it's just guys like me,'' Mr. Ferreira said as the dogs came home. A loser again, he shuffled off, another afternoon at the races complete.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A dog waits to race at the Hollywood greyhound track. The track and others could get slot machines if a March 8 referendum passes.
 Jack Grogan, left, and Charles Bianchi, regulars at the Hollywood track. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CASINOS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); JAI ALAI (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); VETO (67%); TOURISM (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); ED RENDELL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



582 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Foreign Stocks Can Still Reduce a Portfolio's Risk

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
INVESTORS who look overseas to reduce the risks of holding stocks can find support in a new study. Contrary to recent objections that this strategy does not work well, if it works at all, the research has found that global portfolios have been significantly less risky over the long run than ones containing domestic stocks alone.
 The study, ''International Diversification: Have We Missed the Forest Through the Trees?,'' was written by Clifford Asness, Robert Krail and John Liew, principals at AQR Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn. 
 Until the late 1990's, many people in academia and on Wall Street said international diversification provided a free lunch. In theory, at least, a portfolio holding both domestic and foreign stocks would perform just as well over time as one containing only domestic ones, but with less risk -- when risk is defined as volatility of returns. 
 The key to this idea was the historically low correlation between domestic and international stocks -- in other words, their tendency not to move in tandem. Thus, a portfolio with both kinds of stocks would be less volatile than one with domestic stocks alone. 
 But in the late 1990's, a number of researchers found that the correlations were not constant through the market cycle. As a result, they said, the risk-reducing potential of such diversification was exaggerated.
 It turns out, for example, that correlations between domestic and foreign stocks tend to be highest when domestic stocks are declining sharply. Yet those are the very times when correlations need to be low in order to reduce portfolio volatility. And correlations tend to be lowest when domestic stocks are rising, which is when a low correlation is least helpful. Based on these findings, some people -- including a few I quoted in previous columns -- went so far as to recommend that stock investors cut or even eliminate their international exposure.
 The new study, however, says international stocks do a poor job of reducing risk only when an investor focuses on short holding periods. Over the long term, they deliver precisely what theory says they should.
 The authors studied two hypothetical American investors from 1950 through May 2004. The first investor focused only on one-year periods; the second focused on 10-year periods. The first investor would perceive no benefits from international diversification, the authors found, while the second would see many. 
 First, consider the shorter-term investor. If he invested only in domestic stocks, his portfolio's biggest 12-month decline over all that time would have been 47.5 percent, after inflation. If, instead, he had divided his portfolio equally among stocks of the United States, Japan, Germany, France and Britain, his worst 12-month loss would have been about as big: 45.4 percent.
 Now, consider the second investor. His worst loss over a 10-year period for a domestic-only stock portfolio would have been a cumulative 40 percent. But for a portfolio divided among the five countries' stocks, the worst 10-year decline would have been about one-fourth as big: 11.3 percent.
 The study's conclusions do not apply only to American investors. The researchers also studied stock markets in Japan, Germany, France and Britain, again contrasting investors with short- and long-term perspectives. In each case, global diversification provided few short-term benefits for an investor, but big gains over longer periods.
 THE study did not address the argument that international diversification is no longer important because so many companies are multinational. But Mr. Asness says this objection is overblown. ''Investing in a U.S. portfolio is still a hell of a lot more a U.S. bet than a global bet,'' he said, ''even if more a global bet than it was decades ago.'' So even if the free lunch of international diversification may not be as big, he said, ''it's still a free lunch, so why not eat it?'' 
 The authors don't dispute previous findings that such diversification failed to cut risk over short time horizons. But they say, ''So what?'' After all, investors should focus on the long term anyway.
 While short, sharp market plunges are painful, the new study notes that long, drawn-out bear markets are ''significantly more damaging'' to investor wealth. ''Global diversification,'' they add, ''does an exceptionally good job of protecting investors from these kinds of risks.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Hedging Your Bets''The risk-reduction benefits of adding foreign stocks to a portfolio become evident only over longer periods.Cumulative stock returnsPeriods from January 1950 to May 2004, adjusted for inflationWorst 12-month periodU.S.: -48%INT'L*: -45%Worst 5-year periodU.S.: -45%INT'L*: -21%Worst 10-year periodU.S.: -40%INT'L*: -11%*Equal weighting of Britain, France, Germany, Japan and the Unted States(Sources by Clifford Asness
Robert Krail
 John Liew)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); WRITERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



583 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Died in Africa Yesterday

 BODY:
When a once-in-a-century natural disaster swept away the lives of more than 100,000 poor Asians last December, the developed world opened its hearts and its checkbooks. Yet when it comes to Africa, where hundreds of thousands of poor men, women and children die needlessly each year from preventable diseases, or unnatural disasters like civil wars, much of the developed world seems to have a heart of stone.
 Not every African state is failing. Most are not. But the continent's most troubled regions -- including Somalia and Sudan in the east, Congo in the center, Zimbabwe in the south and Ivory Coast, Liberia and Sierra Leone in the west -- challenge not only our common humanity, but global security as well. The lethal combination of corrupt or destructive leaders, porous and unmonitored borders and rootless or hopeless young men has made some of these regions incubators of international terrorism and contagious diseases like AIDS. Others are sanctuaries for swindlers and drug traffickers whose victims can be found throughout the world. 
 In many of these places, poverty and unemployment and the desperation they spawn leave young men vulnerable to the lure of terrorist organizations, which, beyond offering two meals a day, also provide a target to vent their anger at rich societies, which they are led to believe view them with condescension and treat them with contempt. Training camps for Islamic extremists are now thought to be sprouting like anthills on the savanna.
 ''America is committed not only to the campaign against terrorism in a military sense, but the campaign against poverty, the campaign against illiteracy and ignorance.'' Former Secretary of State Colin Powell said that. Well, America launched its war on terror after Sept. 11, but did not bother to look at some of the deeper causes of global instability. This country is going to spend more than $400 billion on the military this year, and another $100 billion or so for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. But that amount is never going to buy Americans peace if the government continues to spend an anemic $16 billion -- the Pentagon budget is 25 times that size -- in foreign aid that addresses the plight of the poorest of the world's poor.
 For decades, most Americans either have preferred not to hear about these problems, or, blanching at the scope of the human tragedy, have thrown up their hands. But in terms of the kind of money the West thinks nothing of spending, on such things as sports and entertainment extravaganzas, not to speak of defense budgets, meeting many of Africa's most urgent needs seems shockingly affordable. What has been missing is the political will.
 This year, there is a real chance of scrounging up, and then mobilizing, this political will. Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who has stood resolutely by President Bush at Mr. Blair's own political peril through the war in Iraq, has staked Britain's presidency of the Group of 8 industrial nations this year on tackling poverty in Africa. Mr. Blair wants his ally, Mr. Bush, to stand beside him at the coming G-8 summit meeting at Gleneagles in Scotland this July. After the G-8 meeting there will be a United Nations summit meeting in New York in September, where the world's leaders will examine progress made toward reaching the Millennium Development Goals of cutting global poverty in half by 2015. Chief among those goals was that developed countries like America, Britain and France would work toward giving 0.7 percent of their national incomes for development aid for poor countries.
 If the progress made so far is any guide, it is going to be a short meeting. While Britain is about halfway to the goal, at 0.34 percent, and France is at 0.41 percent, America remains near rock bottom, at 0.18 percent. Undoubtedly, President Bush will point to his Millennium Challenge Account when he attends the summit meeting. He will be correct in saying that his administration has given more annually in foreign aid than the Clinton administration in sheer dollars. His Millennium Challenge Account was supposed to increase United States assistance to poor countries that are committed to policies promoting development. This is a worthy endeavor, but it has three big problems.
 First, neither the administration nor Congress has come anywhere close to financing the program fully. Second, the program, announced back in 2002, has yet to disburse a single dollar.
 Most important, relying mostly on programs like the Millennium Challenge Account, which tie foreign aid to good governance, condemns millions of Africans who have dreadful governments (Liberia, Congo, Ivory Coast) or no government (Somalia) to die. No donor nation is, or should be, willing to direct money to despotic, thieving or incompetent governments likely to misspend it or divert it to the personal bank accounts of their leaders. Strict international criteria of political accountability, financial transparency and development-friendly social and economic policies need to be established and enforced, not just by outside donors but by prominent and influential African leaders, like South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki.
 Help for people living under governments that fail these criteria will have to be channeled mainly through international and nongovernmental organizations. Bypassed governments will not like this, but they cannot be allowed to stand in the way of outside help to the victims of their misrule. It is not the fault of Africa's millions of refugees that warring armies have burned their villages and fields and driven them into unsafe and disease-ridden camps, like those in the Darfur region of Sudan. And no fair-minded person would blame the victims of callous and destructive governments, like Zimbabwe's, for the economic and social misery they create.
 In the next few months, Mr. Bush could take a giant step towards altering the way the world views America by joining Mr. Blair in pushing for more help in Africa. It's past time; the continent is dying. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is anything but, some 1,000 people die every day of preventable diseases like malaria and diarrhea. That's the equivalent of a tsunami every five months, in that one country alone. Throughout the continent of Africa, thousands of people die needlessly every day from diseases like AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
 One hundred years ago, before we had the medical know-how to eradicate these illnesses, this might have been acceptable. But we are the first generation able to afford to end poverty and the diseases it spawns. It's past time we step up to the plate. We are all responsible for choosing to view the tsunami victims in Southeast Asia as more deserving of our help than the malaria victims in Africa. Jeffrey Sachs, the economist who heads the United Nations' Millennium Development Project to end global poverty, rightly takes issue with the press in his book ''The End of Poverty'': ''Every morning,'' Mr. Sachs writes, ''our newspapers could report, 'More than 20,000 people perished yesterday of extreme poverty.'''
 So, on this page, we'd like to make a first step.
 Yesterday, more than 20,000 people perished of extreme poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (86%); BUDGETS (85%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (61%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (54%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (52%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LIBERIA (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); SUDAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



584 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: West Africa Wins Again, With Twist

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
When Togo's military installed the son of the country's longtime strongman as president earlier this month, ignoring the Togolese Constitution, their actions seemed taken from a very old playbook, a throwback to an earlier era in African history when coups and tyrannical governments were the rule rather than the troublesome exception, and African leaders were reluctant to criticize one another, lest their own foibles come to light. 
 But the African response to the Togolese military's actions were taken out of a new playbook, one in which the old insistence on ''African solutions to African problems,'' is no longer what it once seemed -- a euphemism for African leaders looking the other way while despots and corrupt governments rampaged.
 Faure Gnassingbe stepped down as interim president on Friday, following three weeks of intense pressure from Togo's neighbors to move the country back to constitutional rule. Mr. Gnassingbe is the 38-year-old son of Gnassingbe Eyadema, who died on Feb. 5. He had ruled the former French colony with an authoritarian hand since 1967, four years after he helped lead Africa's first post-colonial coup. 
 Mr. Gnassingbe's departure has been hailed as a huge success for African diplomacy. 
 ''We have demonstrated a capacity to solve our own problems,'' Mohammad Ibn Chambas, executive secretary of the Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas, the regional trade group that led the effort to restore the Constitution in Togo, said in a telephone interview on Saturday. 
 The swift reversal was one result of a new phenomenon: African leaders and institutions showing stiff resolve and complete unity, Mr. Chambas said. Ecowas and the African Union were quick and merciless in their condemnation, and worked from the first day of Mr. Gnassingbe's rule to push him from power. 
 ''We have spoken with one voice, we have been clear about the principle and we have insisted that there is a minimum bar for governance, and when it is not met we will not tolerate it,'' Mr. Chambas said. 
 Olusegun Obasanjo, the president of Nigeria and the region's most powerful leader, was perhaps the most vociferous critic of the change of power in Togo, and he scolded Mr. Gnassingbe when the latter went to Abuja, the Nigerian capital, for talks. He also refused to accord him the pomp of an official state visit , a pointed and significant diplomatic snub. When Mr. Gnassingbe offered to hold elections but remain in power until then, African leaders immediately dismissed the gesture as an insufficient half-measure. 
 Western nations played a role, but it was small. The United States, the United Nations and European countries issued strongly worded statements condemning the change of power and later insisted that Mr. Gnassingbe step down. But the diplomatic effort to force the Togolese government back to constitutional rule was almost entirely an African affair. 
 ''Africans took the lead on this, which is precisely what we want them to do,'' said a senior Western diplomat in Lome, the Togolese capital. ''This is exactly how it is supposed to work.''
 But it often does not work that way. 
 Chris Landsberg, an analyst at the Center for Policy studies, a private, nonpartisan research institution in Johannesburg, who has written extensively about African diplomacy, said that the tough words on Togo were a good sign, but that Africa had plenty of tougher problems that called for action. 
 ''If only they could insist on democratic norms, irrespective of the size of country, the historic legacy of country, if only you could be consistent,'' Mr. Landsberg said. ''If only they can find a way to remind themselves that we must start to be tough with the Zimbabwes as well.''
 Togo, a tiny, poor country with a per capita income of $270 per year and few allies, ''just doesn't have any of the pretense of being a player from a power politics point of view,'' he said. 
 Zimbabwe has been ruled by Robert G. Mugabe for more than two decades and has slipped deeper into ruin as he has become increasingly despotic. But Mr. Mugabe is still widely seen as an icon of African resistance to colonial rule. 
 African leaders, notably South Africa's influential president, Thabo Mbeki, have advocated a policy of quiet diplomacy to nudge, not shove, Mr. Mugabe into retirement. This stance has put Mr. Mbeki at stark odds with the United States. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice recently called Zimbabwe an ''outpost of tyranny.'' 
 In other examples of how African leaders have handled crises of governance, there were few objections when, in the vast, resource-rich but troubled Congo, Joseph Kabila was anointed to succeed his father, Laurent D. Kabila, as president after his killing in 2001. African -- and Western -- leaders have been reluctant to criticize other African leaders, too, who were at first heralded as hopes for a new era of democratic rule but who have since shown signs of leaning toward autocracy, like Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and Paul Kagame of Rwanda. 
 In the peculiar brotherhood of African leaders, a circle shaped by shared opposition to colonial and Western domination, it is one thing to criticize a change of power but another thing entirely to take a sitting leader to task. Before condemning Mr. Gnassingbe's actions, African leaders took pains to hail Mr. Eyadema -- who had been accused by human rights groups of massacring his political opponents and who had won three deeply flawed elections -- as a great African statesman. 
 ''As much as you have a body of 25 countries showing eagerness and enthusiasm to break from the past, we can't remind ourselves enough that we have another 25 or more outside of that club,'' Mr. Landsberg said. ''It is as though you have a contradictory, two-speed Africa: those that are serious about the future and those that aren't.''
 But such inconsistency is hardly unique to Africa, analysts are quick to point out. The United States rallied to the side of Ukraine's opposition leader, Viktor A. Yushchenko, and criticized the flawed election late last year that led to his initial defeat, but has treaded much more lightly in dealing with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, whose rapid centralization of power has led to serious questions about his commitment to democracy. 
 Mr. Chambas, the Ecowas official, said that Africa was just beginning its journey to democratic rule, and that bumps along the way were inevitable. 
 ''Today we have made one step,'' he said. ''We hope that we will continue to move forward in our efforts to bring democracy to our region.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Faure Gnassingbe, Togo's military-installed ruler, agreed to leave at the insistence of other African leaders. (Photo by Desirey Minkoh/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (54%) TOGO (96%); AFRICA (96%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); NIGERIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



585 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: For M.T.A., Land Sales Often Come With Tension

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Twenty years ago this month, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, pressed for cash, sold the East Side Airlines Terminal, a bus depot on First Avenue. Competing bidders drove the price to $90.6 million, nearly twice what the agency had hoped for. The buyers demolished the building and erected a 57-story condominium tower. 
 Today, the authority, ridden by debt, is trying to organize a similar but far more contentious sale of the development rights to its West Side railyards. Against the objections of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the authority suspended its private talks with the Jets, who want to build a football stadium on the site, and invited competing bids for control of the property. 
 The authority's record of trying to sell land to raise money for transit has often been fraught with tension when two public purposes -- economic development and mass transit -- have collided, according to David Z. Plavin, who was executive director of the authority from 1981 to 1985, when it began exploring how to maximize profit from three major assets.
 The first was the Airlines Terminal, which was used by buses shuttling passengers to and from Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports from 1953 to 1984 and was the initial stop for millions of travelers.
 ''We picked the Airlines Terminal to do first because it was the simplest one,'' said Marsilia A. Boyle, the authority's director of real estate from 1979 to 1987. The land was already zoned for high-density residential development, she said, and community opposition was minimal.
 In February 1985, the site was sold after a daylong auction to a partnership that included Bernard Spitzer, whose son Eliot is now the state's attorney general. The auction was initially expected to bring in perhaps $50 million. ''It took all day long, I think about 9 or 10 hours, and after the first five or six rounds, when it got to the $70 million range, all but two had dropped out,'' Ms. Boyle said.
 The partnership erected the Corinthian, an 863-unit residential complex, on the 81,173-square-foot site, on First Avenue between 37th and 38th Streets.
 The second asset, the New York Coliseum on Columbus Circle, proved much harder to sell. 
 In July 1985, Boston Properties, owned by the developer Mortimer B. Zuckerman, won a competition to replace the structure with a hotel, offices, condominiums, stores and a movie theater. He agreed to pay the authority $455 million.
 Architects, planners and community groups almost immediately declared their opposition to the project, which had strong backing from Mayor Edward I. Koch. The critics focused much of their ire on the authority, saying it had asked for so much money that any developer would have to build an enormous development to recoup its costs.
 The deal with Mr. Zuckerman's company was hampered because the site needed to be rezoned and because it was in an urban renewal area, complicating redevelopment, Ms. Boyle said.
 As lawsuits dragged on for nearly a decade, the real estate market collapsed. Mr. Zuckerman withdrew from the project in 1994. Only after the market recovered could the authority finally sell the land, in 1998, to a partnership of Time Warner and the Related Companies. The Time Warner Center opened on the site last year. 
 The third property was the West Side railyards, used by the Long Island Rail Road. The project is arguably the most complex of the three. Not only does it involve rezoning, but any developer would have to find a way to construct a large deck above the site.
 ''The cost of building a platform without certain development makes it a much more difficult site,'' said Steven M. Polan, the authority's general counsel from 1984 to 1990. ''I'm not surprised it's taken this long. The question is doing it right, when the market is there, which appears to be now.''
 The authority completed a master plan for the air rights over the yards in 1989, but after the stock market crash of 1987, few developers were interested.
 ''Having worked in government, I know that sometimes you have to lay a lot of years of groundwork before your grandchildren get to see the fruits of your labor,'' said Jose A. Leon, who helped oversee the master plan as a real estate official at the authority from 1982 to 1987.
 The proposed stadium, Mr. Plavin said, is at the intersection of competing goals. ''You've got two public purposes in conflict, one being the revitalization of the West Side and the other being generating money for the M.T.A.'s capital plan,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



586 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2144 words

HEADLINE: James Purdy: The Novelist as Outlaw

BYLINE: By Gore Vidal. 
Gore Vidal's most recent work is a play, ''On the March to Sea.''

 BODY:
I FIRST heard of James Purdy a half-century or so ago on a bright spring day in London. Edith Sitwell had asked me to lunch. We drank martinis while she put the finishing touches on a letter to The Times of London; D. H. Lawrence's novel ''Lady Chatterley's Lover'' was under attack for obscenity. Although Edith disliked Lawrence for having, she thought, caricatured her brother Sir Osbert in the novel, as the gin took its effect on each of us, I boldly assured her that the offending book was not actually the work of Lawrence but of Truman Capote. The red-rimmed eyes atop the long Gothic face narrowed: ''Surely the dates are not right.'' 
 ''Capote,'' I said, ''will never see 90 again.'' 
 She sighed contentedly. ''That would explain the dreadful style.'' She began to write the editor of The Times: ''Dear Sir, I am a little girl of 72 and I have it on the highest literary authority. . . .'' 
 As the bowl of martinis emptied, she put down her pen and declared: ''I have discovered a true American genius. Unknown in your country, I fear. He is called James Purdy.'' I pleaded ignorance, but I did know that Edith, for all her swirling costumes and domino-size jade rings, had a sharp eye for literary genius, if not always for talent. She had been among the first admirers of Dylan Thomas, and she put Purdy in the same class, despite the fact that his books were as carefully ignored by American book-chatterers in those days as they are pretty much in these as well. The novelist Jerome Charyn has described him as ''the outlaw of American fiction.'' Presumably, making Mr. John Updike our supreme in-law.
 On Purdy's latest book jackets I hail him as ''an authentic American genius''; emphasis on the two adjectives. Purdy's prose is often reminiscent of the century before last when nouns were apt to do double duty as verbs, like ''funning,'' which an editor once told Purdy was not authentic American speech even though any student of W. C. Fields's early movies knows that it is: ''I was just funning, dear,'' says Fields to the inimitable Gloria Jean. Purdy was born and raised in New England's most authentic annex, the Western Reserve, whose crown jewel is the state of Ohio, or, as Dawn Powell once sweepingly put it, ''All Americans come from Ohio originally, if only briefly.'' That was then, of course. Frontiers have since shut down, and true blue is often mistaken by twilight's last gleaming for red.
 Carroll & Graf is publishing a novel and a volume of Purdy's short stories: ''Eustace Chisholm and the Works'' (1967) and ''Moe's Villa and Other Stories'' (2003), with another novel, ''The House of the Solitary Maggot'' (1974), to be issued in May. The last is part of an ongoing cycle or ''continuous novel'' called ''Sleepers in Moon-Crowned Valleys.'' Luckily for Purdy, he has never had a Maxwell Perkins to slice up his continuous novel into commercial bite-size chunks, losing in the process the narrative flow that Thomas Wolfe lost so much of in life and, even worse, after death, when editors sawed away at his vast American novel to make their own diminished conventional novels (David Herbert Donald's biography of Wolfe describes in bloody detail their charnel house approach to a great original text). One good thing about being an outlaw is that Purdy has been able to make his own divisions of his whole work, and so each novel stands entire by itself while the whole awaits archaeology and constitution of a work that is already like no other.
 ''Gay'' literature, particularly by writers still alive, is a large cemetery where unalike writers, except for their supposed sexual desires, are thrown together in a lot well off the beaten track of family values. James Purdy, who should one day be placed alongside William Faulkner in the somber Gothic corner of the cemetery of American literature, instead is being routed to lie alongside non-relatives.
 It is interesting that in a time of renewed debate over sexual matters (disguised clumsily as ''moral values'') James Purdy is re-emerging from the shadows. The first shadow fell upon him with his first novel, ''63: Dream Palace'' (1956), described by the publisher as ''dealing with obsessive love, homosexuality and urban alienation,'' and ending ''with fratricide. . . . Purdy writes about men who are unable to express their love for other men because homosexuality is unthinkable to them.'' Actually, as Purdy demonstrates, it is quite thinkable to everyone else. He has gone his lonely way; sometimes darkly comic, other times tragic as he faces down the ''kindly ones'' in his path, the Greeks' euphemism for the Furies that forever dog mankind.
 Biography on Purdy is scant. He was born in 1923 in Ohio, moved to Chicago in his teens, attended the University of Chicago and the University of Puebla in Mexico. From 1949 to 1953 he taught at Lawrence College in Wisconsin and then lived abroad for some years (where?). He now lives in Brooklyn. Apparently, he began to publish stories in magazines in the 1940's. In the 1950's, he tried without success to find an American publisher. His first book was published privately in his own country and then by a major publisher in England, where he had many supporters in the literary world, most notably Edith Sitwell and Angus Wilson. 
 For some years I've read his books when I could find them. At one point Edward Albee made an interesting play out of Purdy's novel ''Malcolm'' (1959). But the walls of Jericho remained standing and still stand to this day despite a unique and varied body of work. But then certain writers are simply not allowed to pass because, at some level, they genuinely disturb, causing the Confederacy of Dunces to cart away their most vivid works like so many pillars of salt to be set up in that deadly desert that separates our Oz from the real world.
 ''Moe's Villa and Other Stories'' is Purdy's latest publication. Some of these stories are fairy tales, like ''Kitty Blue,'' about a talking cat who is friend and muse to a great singer, while the finest and strangest of these stories is ''Reaching Rose.'' Although Purdy never abandons for long his ''Malcolm'' characters -- those lost or losing golden ephebes at large in some alien city or sleepwalking through moon-crowned countryside -- as he himself ages, he often deals with the old and their sometimes disconcerting wiles.
 I FIRST read ''Eustace Chisholm and the Works'' around 1968, shortly after publication. It was a significant time in Bookchat Land. Three ''respectable'' writers would publish three so-called ''dirty books'': Philip Roth with ''Portnoy's Complaint'' (in 1969), John Updike with ''Couples'' and me with ''Myra Breckinridge.'' I don't recall a single word written about any of the three. ''Eustace Chisholm'' is something of a shocker. I have now reread it and am surprised at how much I recall after so many years. 
 The book begins in a Dreiserian Chicago: ''Here amidst the industrial whirlwind of America's economic burnout, the unemployed, in nondescript small separate armies, with a generous sprinkling of white youths from small towns and farms and up-from-the-South Negroes, stood in line to go on relief. Eustace Chisholm had been caught up in two tragedies, the national one of his country's economic collapse, and his failed attempt to combine marriage with the calling of narrative poet. He wondered whether it was because of his inability to produce a book or merely the general tenor of the times that his wife, Carla, who had supported him hand and mouth for two years, ran out on him with a baker's apprentice some six months before this story begins.'' He sits all alone, ''writing as usual on his long poem about 'original stock' in America,'' a seemingly eclectic mix of Indians, blacks and Western Reservists. He is 29 and writes his poem with a bit of charcoal on sheets of The Chicago Tribune.
 Unannounced, the fugitive wife, Carla, returns. Eustace is uncharmed. He tells her she is acceptable only as ''breadwinner.'' She agrees to this role, marked as she is now by the Scarlet Letter. Wife turned breadwinner and poet of ''original stock'' in America gossip idly as she refits herself into the apartment and the life of her husband, also known as Ace. 
 Purdy, like a polite host, now tells us a bit about Eustace: ''After his father failed in business in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and shot himself through the roof of his mouth in the canning-factory office from which he had conducted his affairs for over 30 years, Eustace Chisholm, two days after the funeral, left for Chicago. The next fall he began attending the university for a while, and actually came close to being graduated. Coming out into the world at the end of the Hoover and beginning of the Roosevelt period, he could find no work except a few part-time jobs that did not last: he worked as a short-order cook in a Pullman-car eatery, as a receptionist-file clerk in a home for feeble-minded boys, as a reader to a blind millionaire and whatever else he could get.'' At one level this is a nice parody of the realist style of the day; at another it tells us what one ends up doing in a Depression. (Are happy days here again?)
 While Carla prepares lunch, Eustace goes into the front room, where he is to get a lesson in Greek from the adolescent Amos Ratcliffe. The golden youth has been dropped from the university despite the fact that he is a prodigy. He is also a classic beauty, which, as does his mastery of Greek, carries unusual weight with Eustace, who wonders if he will live long enough ''to read Pindar.''
 '' 'You should get as far as ''The Greek Anthology,'' ' Amos Ratcliffe ventured, encouraging his pupil with a nice show of teeth.''
 Various characters interact. Amos is sold to a millionaire. Eustace never learns to read Pindar; he also gives up poetry. The narrative finally focuses on Daniel Haws, a dark-complected, godlike young man (possibly part American Indian) who has served in the Army. As Amos, with a new wardrobe from his millionaire gentleman, reluctantly moves on, Daniel decides to re-enlist.
 ''Daniel Haws's life had come to a full halt, almost an end, when he had been separated under obscure circumstances from the regular U.S. Army. Everything for him since then had been sleepwalking, in one form or another. It was Army ceremonies and routine that he seemed to be re-enacting at many times of the day . . . from breakfast to bed check.''
 Now Daniel re-enlists and is posted to a camp in Biloxi, Miss. ''On the very first night of his arrival in camp, he had sleepwalked into the tent of Captain Stadger. The officer, still awake at 2:30 a.m. and swatting from time to time at a moth which flew about his only illumination, a flashlight, was occupied in rubbing salve into a ringworm on his arm. He looked up with unbelief and yet with an expression of recognition and fulfilled hope at the sight of the soldier standing stark naked with sightless eyes before him.
 ''Rising, pointing his flashlight away from the soldier's face and over his body, the captain studied and waited. Then sensing what he had on his hands, he quickly looked at the serial number on the sleepwalker's dog tag and in a hollow voice of command, in strict military etiquette, dismissed his caller with the implication that it had been the captain who had summoned him from his tent and would summon him again. Obedient, Daniel saluted and, with still unseeing eyes, pivoted and with steady bearing marched back to his cot.'' Fate has taken over his case.
 The captain's ingenuity as a torturer would have earned him a golden leaf of promotion in that Abu Ghraib of our heartland. Purdy mercilessly describes the slow murder of the handsome soldier's flesh, setting off all sorts of images in a reader's mind from Billy Budd to the last but one century's terrible tales of Indians and Puritans tearing each other apart long before the Western Reserve was peopled by usurpers. In a blaze of pain and fury characters, one by one, cease to be. As Amos, Daniel and the captain become ghosts, Purdy quotes from Dryden's translation of Virgil: 
 I know thee, Love! in deserts thou wert bred,
 And at the dugs of savage Tigers fed; 
 Alien of birth, usurper of the plains!
 At the end, Eustace by accident sets afire his poem and himself. Carla puts out the fire that is consuming his dressing gown. Thus, he is freed of his own delusion. ''You see how calm I am about the poem burning. I'm not a writer, that's my news, never was, and never will be.''
 ''I don't care what you accomplish, if anything,'' Carla tells him. ''All I ever cared about was you.''
 ''Then slowly, like all the sleepwalkers in the world,'' he ''took her down the long hall to their bed, held her to him, accepted her first coldness as she had for so long accepted his, and then warmed her with a kind of ravening love.''
 They dream they are awake.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs courtesy of James Purdy
 Kate Simon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (90%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Gore Vidal; James Purdy

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) OHIO, USA (85%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



587 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: How to Save Medicare? Die Sooner

BYLINE: By Daniel Altman

 BODY:
THOUGH Social Security's fiscal direction has taken center stage in Washington of late, Medicare's future financing problems are likely to be much worse. President Bush has asserted that the Medicare Modernization Act, which he signed in 2003, would solve some of those problems -- ''the logic is irrefutable,'' he said two months ago. Yet the Congressional Budget Office expects the law to create just $28 billion in savings during the decade after its passage, while its prescription drug benefit will add more than $400 billion in costs. 
 So, how can Medicare's ballooning costs be contained? One idea is to let people die earlier. 
 For the last few decades, the share of Medicare costs incurred by patients in their last year of life has stayed at about 28 percent, said Dr. Gail R. Wilensky, a senior fellow at Project HOPE who previously ran Medicare and Medicaid. Thus end-of-life care hasn't contributed unduly of late to Medicare's problems. But that doesn't mean it shouldn't be part of the solution. ''If you take the assumption that you want to go where the money is, it's a reasonable place to look,'' Dr. Wilensky said.
 End-of-life care may also be a useful focus because, in some cases, efforts to prolong life may end up only prolonging suffering. In such cases, reducing pain may be a better use of resources than heroic attempts to save lives.
 The question becomes, how can you identify end-of-life care, especially the kind that's likely to be of little value? ''It's very difficult to predict exactly when a given individual is going to die, in most cases,'' said David O. Meltzer, an associate professor of medicine at the University of Chicago who also teaches economics. ''But there's no question that there are many markers we have of someone who is approaching the end of life.''
 Even with that knowledge, however, Dr. Meltzer warned against putting the brakes on care just as a patient takes an inexorable turn for the worse. Studies of doctors who intervened at that point to stave off unproductive care have found little success in cutting costs, he said. Instead, he recommended that doctors try to prepare patients and families for less resource-intensive care at the end of life. ''There is no question, as a clinician, and as a patient and the family members of patients, there are things you can do to make sure that expenditures with little chance of being helpful won't be undertaken,'' he said. ''You explain to people that the goal of medical care is not always to make people live longer.''
 Explaining that principle early on could make a difference in the cases that appear to pose the biggest problem: those in which the patient's health changes suddenly and severely. Dr. Wilensky cited recent research showing that these cases incurred high costs with scant medical benefit. 
 ''When someone starts going south, and there was not an expectation that that was going to happen, you probably pull out all the stops,'' she said. 
 These choices can actually harm patients, contradicting the purpose of the treatment, said Dr. Arnold S. Relman, a professor emeritus of medicine and social medicine at Harvard and former editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine. ''Sometimes, you know that death is inevitable over the next few weeks or few months,'' he said. ''And then there are some doctors, and some families, who just don't want to confront that, and feel that they want to and should invest everything possible -- the maximum amount of resources -- in fighting the inevitable. That often results in prolonging the pain and discomfort of dying.''
 Dr. Wilensky said these cases often involved an unusual number of specialists and other doctors visiting the patient, as well as a potentially excessive number of tests. Better coordination of care within hospitals and with other providers could curtail these extra efforts, she said. She also suggested that more use of evidence-based medicine, in which care is guided by documented cases and statistics, could discourage doctors from pursuing treatments with little chance of success.
 Yet teaching doctors and patients to say no could be a losing battle. ''It doesn't fit human nature, and it certainly doesn't fit our culture,'' Dr. Relman said. ''Most Americans -- and most people who are educated in advanced societies now -- believe that each person is entitled to, technically and scientifically, the best medical care that they can get.''
 Introducing gatekeepers, the administrators in health maintenance organizations who choose which procedures patients may undergo, could take the often-emotional decisions about end-of-life care out of doctors' and patients' hands. Indeed, incorporating more of these managed-care-style practices into Medicare is a primary emphasis for the Bush administration, along with greater competition among providers, said Bill Pierce, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services.
 But Dr. Relman predicted that the public wouldn't stand for it. ''That's exactly why the traditional H.M.O., with the gatekeeper, has given way and is so unpopular and has been replaced by the P.P.O.'' or preferred provider organization, he said. In order to cut costs, he said, a complete revamping of Medicare's payment system is needed -- especially for outpatient care that the government buys on a fee-for-service basis.
 AN alternative to saying no would be to encourage severely ill patients to choose hospice care, where the emphasis in treatment shifts from cure to quality of life. Patients are made to feel as comfortable as possible, and reducing pain takes precedence over radical procedures. At present, only about 1.6 percent of Medicare benefits pay for hospice care.
 Despite the less-intensive brand of treatment, hospice care may not be cheaper than hospital care. ''The assessment of hospice has not indicated that it's a clear money-saver,'' Dr. Wilensky said. ''It can be, but we don't have very good examples.''
 And that lack of information should be the main target, said Dr. Meltzer, of the University of Chicago. ''We just woefully underinvest in health-related research,'' he said. ''The Medicare program has really very, very little money to fund research to help improve itself.''
 He added that the savings from changing doctors' and patients' expectations about end-of-life care could be substantial. Gauging just how substantial, he said, was the most important first step: ''Research that helps us better to understand that is going to have an absolutely immense return.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Cost of Living Longer''As Americans live longer and medical costs rise, Medicare spending is projected to climb, too.Graphs track projected Medicare spending (measured in billions) and as a percentage of total federal outlays through 2014.(Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); MEDICAID (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE HEALTH FOUNDATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



588 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2780 words

HEADLINE: Where You Live Can Hurt You

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
SARA LOUISE LAZARUS lost a lot of weight last year, but she has gained some of it back since moving from her apartment on the Upper West Side to an idyllic 100-year-old colonial house with a leafy yard in Millburn, N.J.
 It's possible, she mused the other day, that the weight gain has to do with her newfound domesticity. She has become a kitchen goddess, contentedly cooking breakfast, dinner and desserts for her husband, David Seader, and their first-grade son, Sam. In New York, the family ate out a lot. 
 But, she has to admit, she is also walking less. The half-mile, 10-minute walk to the train station that seemed so inviting in the summer and fall now seems gloomy and slightly menacing in winter, as darkness falls earlier. 
 ''It's next to the South Mountain Reservation,'' said Ms. Lazarus, who commutes to New York, where she is a director and teacher at the Circle in the Square Theater School. ''It's all woods and dark, and you feel like you're in 'The Blair Witch Project.' So there goes the walking.''
 Right about now, one can imagine Dr. Roland Sturm, a senior economist at the RAND Corporation, nodding knowingly. Dr. Sturm and a colleague, Dr. Deborah Cohen, a RAND researcher and physician, released a study last fall that found that people who live in sprawling suburban areas are less healthy in certain areas -- mostly associated with exercise, or the lack of it -- than those who live in compact urban neighborhoods.
 The study, published in the journal Public Health, was based on lengthy telephone surveys that questioned adults about their physical and mental health between 1998 and 2001. Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen analyzed data from more than 8,600 people in 38 metropolitan areas.
 The researchers concluded that suburbanites were more likely to report chronic health problems, like high blood pressure, arthritis, headaches, migraines and breathing problems than people who lived in the city, even after accounting for mitigating factors like race, age, economic status and the weather, which might influence how much exercise people got.
 Dr. Sturm and Dr. Cohen said their findings suggested that sprawl ages a community by four years. The more quintessentially suburban one's community, they concluded, the worse for one's health. The worst possible place to live, they said, was the suburban ideal: a cul-de-sac with few sidewalks that empties into a big access road, so that residents have to drive to shopping, school and work. 
 Conversely, people were healthier in places like Chicago, Boston and San Francisco -- possibly because they were more likely to walk to work or take public transportation, according to the study, than in places like Atlanta; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and San Bernardino, Calif., where there was more sprawl and more reliance on cars. The tendency of people to be healthier also holds for extremely compact places like New York City, Dr. Sturm said, although by virtue of its compactness, it is something of an anomaly. 
 The study gains some power from being so counterintuitive. It would seem to be a given that living in a single-family house is a step above most apartments; that green grass is a better place for children to play in than the asphalt jungle; that it is healthier to be surrounded by tall trees than by tall skyscrapers. But its conclusions have been met with skepticism by some experts for drawing cause-and-effect links where they may be dubious. 
 ''My reaction to this is it's intriguing but certainly needs a lot more explanation,'' said Dr. David Ackman, Nassau County's health commissioner. ''This is -- in general -- the weakest type of epidemiologic study. It says there's an association, but we don't know if it's causative. These sorts of studies are generally thought of as hypothesis-generating studies. They raise questions that may or may not merit further investigation.'' 
 Another criticism, which the authors acknowledge, is that the study ignored variations among microenvironments -- neighborhoods within neighborhoods.
 A look at county health statistics for New York State suggests that New York City's five boroughs vary so widely in lifestyle and health that it might be difficult to generalize about the city as a whole.
 The authors of the RAND study created a ''sprawl index'' for 38 metropolitan areas, with a lower score denoting more sprawl. In the New York region, the cities studied were New York, Newark and Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, Conn. 
 On their list, Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif., had the worst sprawl score, at 14.2, followed by Greensboro, N.C., and Atlanta. Boston (126.9), San Francisco (146.8) and New York City (177.8) are at the other extreme.
 Also relatively near the top for sprawl were Bridgeport, Danbury and Stamford, which ranked sixth, with a score of 68.4. Rochester (77.9), Syracuse (80.3) and Newark (81.3) ranked slightly better but still among the most sprawling third of the list.
 The study also conducted a ''sensitivity analysis'' to determine whether factors like unemployment, English-speaking skills, the percentage of homeowners and the number of liquor stores or bars would change the results; it did not. 
 ''We see higher incidence of chronic conditions in areas that are more sprawling,'' Dr. Sturm said in a recent interview from his office in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Especially pain conditions. They're stiff, they have joint pain, hypertension, heart conditions'' -- conditions, he said, that could be related to a lack of physical activity.
 Yes, Dr. Sturm conceded, the term ''soccer mom'' was invented to describe suburban women. So doesn't it matter that suburban children play organized sports or that their parents go to the gym?
 Dr. Sturm argues that it doesn't, at least not enough. More important than weekend exercise and going to the gym, he says, is what he calls ''utilitarian walking,'' the few minutes several times a day spent walking to the subway, including up and down the subway stairs, or to the corner grocery store or a restaurant that people living in urban areas more typically do.
 ''There is less utilitarian walking in sprawling areas,'' he said. ''People don't think of it as exercise, but it makes a huge difference. Just the 10 additional minutes a day that you go to the store and back easily add up to a couple of pounds a year in terms of body weight.''
 When children play soccer, he notes, they may stand around a lot. ''During those 30 minutes that they actually play soccer each week,'' he said, ''they may not spend even half the amount of energy that another kid spends walking to school.'' Trisha Beatty, who lives in a secluded development of large homes near Glastonbury, Conn., confesses to being torn about the advantages and disadvantages of suburban living, but like other mothers, she says she and her husband have chosen the suburbs as a safe, comfortable place to raise their two children.
 ''I agree with the premise, but regretfully,'' she says of the sprawl study's finding that people walk less in the suburbs.
 The Beatty family epitomizes what the sprawl study defines as the worst possible situation: their big, beautiful house is in a cul-de-sac, with no sidewalks and no streetlights, two miles down a country road from the main access route to the nearby towns of Glastonbury, Hebron and Bolton. The closest store is about five miles away.
 Sports are certainly celebrated by people in the area. There are hiking trails and mountain biking nearby. But routine walking is difficult. 
 Ms. Beatty, an administrator of subsidized housing for the elderly who commutes to work in Hartford several times a week, is an exception to the non-pedestrian culture around her. She has mapped out a three-mile walking route and tries to walk or jog it three times a week, sometimes with a friend. But just walking in her car-centered neighborhood requires courage. She has to walk along the shoulder of the road, and when cars come, she and her friend move into single file. In icy weather, she goes to Curves for a half-hour workout. 
 She is not a fan of gas-guzzling, air-polluting S.U.V.'s, but she and her husband bought one after moving in 10 years ago, because their house is on a steep hill, and without all-wheel-drive, they sometimes had to park the car at the bottom of the hill in bad weather. As for her two daughters, 13 and 16, they take a bus and a van to school.
 ''We love our house,'' she said. ''We love the neighborhood. There are definitely positives to living here. But I can see myself living somewhere else, too. I keep telling the kids that as soon as they get older, I'm selling this house, and I am going to the city or something.''
 MARY MURPHY, who lives in Rockville Centre, N.Y., often marvels at how dependent she and her neighbors are on their cars. People become so accustomed to driving, she said, that they will drive to places just two blocks away, unthinkable in the city, if only because of the scarcity of parking.
 ''People drive like a mile, and then go to the gym,'' she said. ''Why don't you just walk that mile and save the money? Or they take their cars and go to someplace where they can jog, like the high school track, but they drive to that, so they're wasting gas and polluting the air.''
 Ms. Murphy has lived in Rockville Centre for 14 years, but when it comes to exercise, she still looks back fondly at her days in Ozone Park, Queens.
 In Queens, she said, there were always little stores two blocks away to walk to for necessities, while on Long Island, she has to go to the main drag a mile away.
 Westchester County's health commissioner, Joshua Lipsman, was willing to endorse some of Dr. Sturm's conclusions, saying he had no doubt that a link could be found between a heavy reliance on cars for transportation and obesity.
 But like Dr. Ackman of Nassau County, he suggested that factors like education and affluence might compensate for the effects of sprawl. Dr. Ackman noted that Nassau scores well on health measures, which he attributes mainly to its affluence, since affluence, as Dr. Sturm acknowledges, strongly correlates with good health.
 His view gets some support from federal health data. In the two key factors associated with sprawl -- exercise and weight -- Westchester and Nassau Counties score very favorably compared with other counties in New York. They are topped only by Manhattan, according to preliminary data gathered for the 2003 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, a telephone survey of the health of Americans compiled by the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in cooperation with selected counties across the country.
 Asked whether they were overweight, 42.3 percent of Manhattan residents said they were, the lowest percentage in the New York City area. Next were Fairfield County, Conn., and Nassau, with 52 percent, followed by Westchester with 53.6 percent. 
 In Bergen County, N.J., 55 percent of residents reported being overweight or obese. In Hudson County, the numbers were about the same, with 56 percent reporting that they were overweight or obese.
 The other four boroughs of New York City did somewhat worse than the suburbs, with 62.7 percent of Bronx residents reporting that they were overweight, 58.6 percent of Brooklyn residents, 57.7 percent of Staten Island residents and 57.6 percent of Queens residents. Suffolk County had an obesity rate similar to most of New York City, at 57 percent.
 In a related question -- whether people had engaged in any leisure-time physical activity or exercise during the preceding 30 days -- Fairfield County, Conn., came in at the top, with only 12 percent saying they had been sedentary. In Westchester 20 percent said they had been sedentary, followed by a tie between Manhattan and Suffolk, both with 21.7 percent sedentary residents. Next came Bergen, with 24 percent; Nassau, 24.4 percent; and Staten Island, 26.2 percent sedentary.
 Many suburban dwellers say they would like to integrate exercise into their routines but find themselves stymied by a suburban terrain that doesn't lend itself to walking.
 For Stephanie Brody, an investment banker, moving to Scarsdale six months ago from the Upper West Side was the right decision for her four children -- 5-year-old twins, a 3-year-old and an infant. But she sees an exercise divide between adults and children: The adults, she suspects, get less, while the children get more.
 In Manhattan, she said, taking her children to play in Central Park could be a headache. ''You can't go to Central Park with three or four kids as easily as opening up the door to your backyard and calling up the kid next door to go out and play.''
 But her new street doesn't have sidewalks, which makes it hazardous to go out for a walk with the baby in the stroller. 
 She tries to walk her children to school when possible. ''You want to teach your kids that walking is something that is part of their normal existence,'' she said. ''You have to go out of your way to instill that here.''
 Likewise, Ms. Lazarus in Millburn reluctantly confirmed many of the sprawl study's conclusions, if only anecdotally. Her family now has a yard, graced by two towering pine trees, and she likes looking out the window at the birds and squirrels competing for seeds at her new bird feeder.
 ''The joy of waking up in the morning and looking out the window,'' she said of her neighborhood. ''We have views and this backyard that just goes on and on and on and on. It's very soul-feeding. I feel wonderful being here.''
 But having a backyard also makes her family more reclusive than they were in the city. Her son, Sam, doesn't go to the playground nearly as often as he did on the Upper West Side. And sometimes, now that the weather is cold, it is easier to drive the three blocks to his school than to walk.
 In Manhattan, they took the subway two stops and then walked five blocks round trip to Sam's school. Without the street life of the city, walking seems less connected, less engaging. ''The one thing I will say about suburban life is that I miss the people of the city,'' she said.
 But Ms. Lazarus just keeps thinking about the well-being she feels looking at the view from her windows. ''It's so delicious, and the snow is so gorgeous,'' she said. ''I look at it, and I feel healthy.''

When Asthmatics Breathe Easier
 ALTHOUGH the authors of the sprawl study did not conduct any independent research into the connection between sprawling suburbs, health and air pollution, they did examine evidence from other studies.
 In general, they said, other research has shown that sprawling areas tend to have more pollution from sources like automobiles. So there is circumstantial evidence, the authors suggest, for a link between pollution and the higher rates of breathing problems and headaches they found in sprawling areas.
 ''Very far out, yeah, they probably have better air because they do not have the stationary sources of pollution like power plants,'' Dr. Roland Sturm, one of the authors of the study, said. ''But why is there so much smog in Los Angeles? That's because of the driver.''
 Of course, there may be other contributing factors to asthma rates, like poverty, inferior health care and other sources of pollution. In 2001, Nassau County had just 53.9 pediatric hospitalizations for asthma per 100,000 population, compared with 95 in Manhattan and 159.2 in the Bronx. 
 Dr. Sturm cited a study published in February 2001 in The Journal of the American Medical Association on the impact of rerouting automobiles in an effort to decrease congestion during the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
 The study found that hospitalizations for childhood asthma were reduced during that period and that this correlated with a lower rate of ground-level ozone pollution.
 The authors compared pediatric hospitalization rates during the 17 days of the Olympics with a baseline period four weeks before and four weeks after. They found that during the Games, state Medicaid claims for visits to doctors decreased nearly 42 percent, while visits for other acute conditions declined by insignificant amounts.
 This correlated with a 22.5 percent decrease in peak weekday morning traffic and a 28 percent decline in peak daily ozone concentrations. The weather did not differ significantly. 
 Sara Louise Lazarus can affirm such statistics anecdotally. Since her family's move from the Upper West Side to Millburn, N.J., her son's asthma has clearly improved. ''He has far fewer needs to use the nebulizer or his puffers,'' she said.
 Her husband can't get over how clean the house is, because the dust and soot that used to accumulate in the city don't seem to gather nearly as fast. ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ron and Stephanie Brody, who recently moved from New York City, with their four children in the backyard of their home in Scarsdale. Below, Mary Murphy of Rockville Centre, N.Y., drops her daughter, Susan, off at South Side High School on her way to work. (Photos by George M. Gutierrez [top] and Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Drawing (Drawing by Jim Starr)Chart: ''Expanding in the Suburbs''A RAND Corporation study found that people who live in sprawling areas are more likely to complain of chronic health problems related to lack of exercise than people who live in cities. But a 2003 survey by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found little difference between the New York region's suburbs and the city's five boroughs -- with the exception of Manhattan, where far fewer people were considered overweight.2003 data
 figures for New York are preliminaryNEW YORK CITY: ManhattanAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 42%Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78%NEW YORK CITY: QueensAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 68NEW YORK CITY: Staten IslandAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 58Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 74NEW YORK CITY: BrooklynAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 59Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70NEW YORK CITY: BronxAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 63Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 63SURROUNDING COUNTIES: NassauAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 52Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: SuffolkAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 57Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 78SURROUNDING COUNTIES: WestchesterAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 54Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 80SURROUNDING COUNTIES: BergenAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 55Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 76SURROUNDING COUNTIES: HudsonAdult residents who were overweight or obese: 56Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 70SURROUNDING COUNTIES: Fairfield (2002)Adult residents who were overweight or obese: 52Adults who had engaged in physical activity or exercise in the previous 30 days: 88(Sources by New York, New Jersey and Connecticut Health Departments)(pg. 6)Map of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut highlights New York City. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SUBURBS (88%); CITIES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); ARTHRITIS (66%); HYPERTENSION (61%) Medicine and Health; Suburbs; Urban Areas ; Research; Exercise; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) Rand Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: Deborah (Dr) Cohen; Roland Sturm; Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



589 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Opening Doors in Albany

 BODY:
Suddenly, New York's secretive, backroom government is letting in daylight. Events that once happened behind the scenes are starting to surface. While most legislators are pleased, others grumble that all this openness is inconvenient and messy. Well, hey, folks, democracy is not a tidy form of government. Here are some developments we like: 
 Open budget negotiations. Remember government by three men in a room? Gov. George Pataki, one of the three, has shaken things up for the better in recent weeks by opening budget negotiations to minority party leaders. Now there are five men in a room, with others watching from the sidelines, including the media. Mr. Pataki; Joseph Bruno, the Senate majority leader; and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, used to emerge from their budget sessions and dole out their version of what went on. Now, there are plenty of onlookers who can judge what happened for themselves. 
 Old-timers dismiss these changes as showboating. But the first three meetings make it clear how important it is to keep this debate in front of the cameras. So far, the conferees seem to have agreed to let Comptroller Alan Hevesi estimate available revenues. That could be a real improvement over the usual endless wrangling about numbers. 
 Accessible financial data. Mr. Hevesi has opened a view of fiscal territory long closed to most New York voters. In a detailed report earlier this month, his office revealed that New York's debt had grown over the last 15 years from $14.4 billion to an estimated $49 billion. Until now, it has been almost impossible to calculate the size of the state debt because a lot of it is hidden in Albany's phantom government -- the many authorities that are partly private and partly public.
 Mr. Hevesi's report also underlined the difference between good and bad borrowing. It is reasonable to borrow for long-term capital improvements, for schools and other public structures. It is terrible fiscal policy to borrow for annual operating expenses, which is what the state did last year. Thanks to the new transparency in Albany, the public should now be able to see more easily which is which.
 A real, live legislature. Finally, New York's 212 legislators are starting to see what it means to cast their votes in person. The automatic voting allowed in the past made both houses seem empty, almost beside the point. Now that new rules have banned absentee voting, the plush leather seats in both houses are almost full, and because it is really hard for politicians to sit quietly, they have started talking and debating and doing all the things that more normal legislatures have been doing for decades. 
 Openness will not be easy to maintain. There will always be those who argue for secrecy in the name of efficiency or political necessity or worse. But as less business is done in private, whatever is kept behind closed doors will seem even more suspect. For Albany, that is a giant step forward.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



590 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Opening Doors in Albany

 BODY:
Suddenly, New York's secretive, backroom government is letting in daylight. Events that once happened behind the scenes are starting to surface. While most legislators are pleased, others grumble that all this openness is inconvenient and messy. Well, hey, folks, democracy is not a tidy form of government. Here are some developments we like: 
 Open budget negotiations. Remember government by three men in a room? Gov. George E. Pataki, one of the three, has shaken things up for the better in recent weeks by opening budget negotiations to minority party leaders. Now there are five men in a room, with others watching from the sidelines, including the media. Mr. Pataki; Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader; and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, used to emerge from their budget sessions and dole out their version of what went on. Now, there are plenty of onlookers who can judge what happened for themselves. 
 Old-timers dismiss these changes as showboating. But the first three meetings make it clear how important it is to keep this debate in front of the cameras. So far, the conferees seem to have agreed to let Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi estimate available revenues. That could be a real improvement over the usual endless wrangling about numbers. 
 Accessible financial data. Mr. Hevesi has opened a view of fiscal territory long closed to most New York voters. In a detailed report earlier this month, his office revealed that New York's debt had grown over the last 15 years from $14.4 billion to an estimated $49 billion. Until now, it has been almost impossible to calculate the size of the state debt because a lot of it is hidden in Albany's phantom government -- the many authorities that are partly private and partly public.
 Mr. Hevesi's report also underlined the difference between good and bad borrowing. It is reasonable to borrow for long-term capital improvements, for schools and other public structures. It is terrible fiscal policy to borrow for annual operating expenses, which is what the state did last year. Thanks to the new transparency in Albany, the public should now be able to see more easily which is which.
 A real, live legislature. Finally, New York's 212 legislators are starting to see what it means to cast their votes in person. The automatic voting allowed in the past made both houses seem empty, almost beside the point. Now that new rules have banned absentee voting, the plush leather seats in both houses are almost full, and because it is really hard for politicians to sit quietly, they have started talking and debating and doing all the things that more normal legislatures have been doing for decades. 
 Openness will not be easy to maintain. There will always be those who argue for secrecy in the name of efficiency or political necessity or worse. But as less business is done in private, whatever is kept behind closed doors will seem even more suspect. For Albany, that is a giant step forward.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); POLITICS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Legislature; Editorials; Finances; Law and Legislation; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



591 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Opening Doors in Albany

 BODY:
Suddenly, New York's secretive, backroom government is letting in daylight. Events that once happened behind the scenes are starting to surface. While most legislators are pleased, others grumble that all this openness is inconvenient and messy. Well, hey, folks, democracy is not a tidy form of government. Here are some developments we like: 
 Open budget negotiations. Remember government by three men in a room? Gov. George E. Pataki, one of the three, has shaken things up for the better in recent weeks by opening budget negotiations to minority party leaders. Now there are five men in a room, with others watching from the sidelines, including the media. Mr. Pataki; Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader; and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, used to emerge from their budget sessions and dole out their version of what went on. Now, there are plenty of onlookers who can judge what happened for themselves. 
 Old-timers dismiss these changes as showboating. But the first three meetings make it clear how important it is to keep this debate in front of the cameras. So far, the conferees seem to have agreed to let Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi estimate available revenues. That could be a real improvement over the usual endless wrangling about numbers. 
 Accessible financial data. Mr. Hevesi has opened a view of fiscal territory long closed to most New York voters. In a detailed report earlier this month, his office revealed that New York's debt had grown over the last 15 years from $14.4 billion to an estimated $49 billion. Until now, it has been almost impossible to calculate the size of the state debt because a lot of it is hidden in Albany's phantom government -- the many authorities that are partly private and partly public.
 Mr. Hevesi's report also underlined the difference between good and bad borrowing. It is reasonable to borrow for long-term capital improvements, for schools and other public structures. It is terrible fiscal policy to borrow for annual operating expenses, which is what the state did last year. Thanks to the new transparency in Albany, the public should now be able to see more easily which is which.
 A real, live legislature. Finally, New York's 212 legislators are starting to see what it means to cast their votes in person. The automatic voting allowed in the past made both houses seem empty, almost beside the point. Now that new rules have banned absentee voting, the plush leather seats in both houses are almost full, and because it is really hard for politicians to sit quietly, they have started talking and debating and doing all the things that more normal legislatures have been doing for decades. 
 Openness will not be easy to maintain. There will always be those who argue for secrecy in the name of efficiency or political necessity or worse. But as less business is done in private, whatever is kept behind closed doors will seem even more suspect. For Albany, that is a giant step forward. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Budgets and Budgeting; Editorials; Finances

PERSON: Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



592 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Ideas & Trends; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Behind the Battle at Harvard

BYLINE: By JAMES ATLAS. 
James Atlas is the president of Atlas Books.

 BODY:
WHEN Lawrence Summers, president of Harvard, theorized last month at a conference on ''Diversifying the Science and Engineering Work Force'' that men might have an innate advantage over women in scientific aptitude, he could scarcely have anticipated the protests that unfolded last week on the university's campus. While the Coalition for an Anti-Sexist Harvard rallied outside the science center, a hastily formed group with the laid-back name Students for Larry was milling about Lowell Lecture Hall. 
 But the crisis wasn't just about Larry Summers. Gendergate -- to give the scandal its obligatory suffix -- was more than a matter of an impolitic president. At stake is the university's very identity: Is Harvard liberal or conservative? 
 No one associated with the university, of course, would ever admit to thinking about it that way. How could such basic terms fit, given Harvard's image of itself as an institution that celebrates independence of beliefs and political affiliations as the essence of its charter? And not without justification: It can tenure Harvey Mansfield, the professor of government famous for his politically incorrect pronouncements, and Hilary Putnam, the philosophy professor who was handing out Progressive Labor pamphlets 35 years ago and seems not to have changed his mind on any issue since?
 Yet why should we expect Harvard, and Harvard alone, to rise above the fray? Every issue on campus, just like every issue on every other campus, is refracted through the lens of left-right politics. 
 The number of tenured women professors there? Shockingly low, and it must be fixed by affirmative action, liberals insist. The result of fewer women getting on tenure track early in their careers, conservatives retort.
 The expansion of the campus to Allston? An imperial land grab, the liberals say, that ignores the needs of the surrounding community. A way to create a vibrant Silicon Valley on the Charles, conservatives argue. 
 In this way, the conflagration at Harvard simply mirrors the other wars happening elsewhere -- most recently at Hamilton College, which became embroiled in a debate over a University of Colorado professor's right to call the victims of the Sept. 11 attacks ''little Eichmanns.''
 Harvard being Harvard, any debate it provokes is certain to draw widespread attention. But there is also this crucial difference: the conservative agitator is not an outsider, but an insider. In this case, the president himself. 
 It's not that Mr. Summers thinks of himself as a conservative. He was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, and before that, chief economist of the World Bank.
 What's made Mr. Summers so controversial, said Nicholas Lemann, a Harvard graduate and now the dean of Columbia University's journalism school, is that he's conservative ''not in his politics, but in the context of the university.'' ''Just about everything he's done that's gotten attention is about a tug to the center,'' Mr. Lemann said. 
 That is to say, he would like to see R.O.T.C., which was banished from Harvard during the sit-ins of the 60's, restored to campus; he would like to overhaul the core curriculum; he would like to hire who he pleases, regardless of race or sex. 
 By being naturally and deliberately provocative, he has challenged campus liberals, which is not what campus liberals are accustomed to. Neil Rudenstine, the previous president, was a former English major devoted to inclusivity. Derek Bok, who preceded Mr. Rudenstine, was an affirmative action proponent, even writing a book after he left office on the merits of race-based preferences.
 In contrast, Mr. Summers has had a series of widely reported confrontations: He rebuked Cornel West, a distinguished professor in the African-American studies department, who promptly decamped to Princeton; he made the suggestion, provoked by a pro-Palestinian faction demanding that Harvard divest itself of stock in companies allied with Israel, that campus anti-Semitism was on the rise; he deplored rampant grade inflation. 
 The right attributed his problems to ''feminists'' furthering their ''career agendas,'' as Professor Mansfield put it: ''That he's not in favor of affirmative action, that's what this whole thing is about.'' The left complained that he was a dictatorial bully. 
 Even the considerable endowment -- now about $23 billion -- is subject to a left-right critique. Liberals want to know why more of that money isn't used for scholarships and faculty research. And why, they ask, are top money managers earning Wall Street-size bonuses? Critics of what some refer to as ''the corporatization of Harvard'' point to the university's acquisition of significant real estate holdings in Allston as symptomatic of the trend. For decades now, Harvard has been buying land across the river from the main campus, and now owns 260 acres there, leaving the university open to the charge that it has pursued a policy of expansion out of sheer acquisitiveness. 
 ''Harvard started out as a public school,'' notes Lani Guinier, a Harvard law professor and the author of a forthcoming book titled ''Meritocracy Incorporated.'' ''It was given land by the state of Massachusetts. Harvard was a proprietor of Cambridge, charged with the responsibility of answering to the needs of the community. It's one thing to be the wealthiest landowner in the community, but you have to be responsible.''
 To some extent, the campus rift is not about politics, but about a wrenching of power from the faculty. When Mr. Summers was appointed in 2001, he had, or believed he had, a mandate to make the university more efficient by exerting his control over it. ''He's interested in everything,'' says Kim Clark, dean of the Harvard Business School. ''How it runs its real estate operation, how it manages its food service, how it allocates resources.'' (''Academic freedom is wonderful,'' Mr. Summers has said, ''but it doesn't really have a place in the purchase of cement.'') 
 It's not as if the travails of Lawrence Summers pose any threat to the continuance of the university. Harvard has weathered turbulence before in its 370-year history. Not even the travails of a president who seems to lack a superego can match the drama of that dawn in the spring of 1969 when President Nathan Pusey called in state troopers to oust students who had occupied University Hall; no one present will ever forget the cloud of tear gas wafting over Harvard Yard at five o'clock in the morning.
 Still, the issues the university faces -- the fate of the new Allston campus, the overhaul of the curriculum, the proper use of the endowment -- are hardly minor. 
 The real question isn't whether Mr. Summers should stay or go, but how these inevitable transformations will play out over the next few years. Like it or not, the university over which he presides has been swept into this decade's culture war. There are some things from which not even Harvard is exempt.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the controversy over Lawrence Summers's remarks at Harvard on women and science misstated the politics of Hilary Putnam, a philosophy professor there. Professor Putnam abandoned his support of the Progressive Labor Party in 1972; he does not still support it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Adam Palmer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WOMEN (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



593 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1406 words

PERSON: Henry Anatole Grunwald

HEADLINE: Henry A. Grunwald, Editor Who Directed Shift in Time Magazine, Is Dead at 82

BYLINE: By RICHARD SEVERO

 BODY:
Henry A. Grunwald, a refugee from Nazi-dominated Austria who rose to become Time magazine's top editor and later returned to Vienna as the United States ambassador, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. 
 The cause was heart failure, said his daughter Mandy. 
 Mr. Grunwald was 45 years old and had been a writer, senior editor and foreign editor at Time when he was named managing editor in 1968. 
 He oversaw Time's shift from a taut, tart, right-leaning publication designed by its founder, Henry R. Luce, to a more centrist magazine that more closely resembled its major competitor, Newsweek. Under his leadership, Time began awarding bylines, and Mr. Grunwald introduced a half-dozen new departments: Behavior, Environment, Energy, the Sexes, Economy and Dance. 
 His tenure was successful, but not without problems. One of them was the highly publicized libel suit brought against Time by Ariel Sharon after Mr. Sharon was forced to resign as Israeli defense minister when a commission of inquiry found him indirectly responsible for the 1982 massacre, by Christian Phalangist forces, of hundreds of Palestinians in two refugee camps in Lebanon.
 Stung by critical press accounts of his role in Lebanon, Mr. Sharon filed the lawsuit, which accused the magazine of filing false reports for more than 30 years. The jury found defamation and falsehood but no malice, so Mr. Sharon lost. 
 After the managing editor's job at Time, Mr. Grunwald was promoted to editor in chief of all Time Inc.'s publications from 1979 to his retirement in 1987. He was the third person to hold that position following Mr. Luce and Hedley Donovan. Some said Mr. Grunwald was either a moderate conservative or a conservative moderate who instinctively felt that the strength of true liberalism lay in its ability to resist extreme views. 
 In ''Henry R. Luce and the Rise of the American News Media,'' James L. Baughman noted that soon after Mr. Grunwald became managing editor, Time began to convey ''a new if still circumscribed tolerance for liberal Democrats and the emerging counterculture.'' Mr. Grunwald was described as studying Newsweek with a ''new respect, adopting some of its approaches in the process of revising Luce's first publication.'' 
 Mr. Grunwald grew with Time, and his friends were not surprised when, in the wake of the Watergate scandal of the early 1970's, he personally wrote the magazine's editorial asking President Nixon to resign.
 In his 1989 accounting of his life in journalism, ''Right Places, Right Times,'' Mr. Donovan, who had picked Mr. Grunwald as Time's managing editor, said that Mr. Grunwald seemed ''a little less formidable'' than his predecessor, Otto Fuerbringer, had been. While ''his political and cultural center of gravity was a bit to the liberal side of Fuerbringer's,'' he was ''almost equally autocratic,'' Mr. Donovan said, adding however that Time ''mellowed under Grunwald.''
 Henry Grunwald was a workaholic. In the 1940's, when he was new to this country, he was so determined to learn American English that when he was not working as a copy boy at Time (a job he got in 1944, even before he graduated from New York University) he spent his off hours going to the movies on 42nd Street so that he could feel comfortable with the clever American sentences that Time devised and celebrated. Later in his career, he was especially proud when he came up with a lead paragraph that said, ''The Democrats have nothing to cheer but fear itself.''
 Aside from his devotion to work, he was in no way predictable. When the Nazis took over Vienna and harassed his father, threw him into jail and forced young Henry to go to a school with other Jews in the city's old ghetto, the experience nurtured his sense of being Jewish. But for the rest of his life, he recalled lovingly his mother's adage that ''there is only one religion and that is to be good.'' He was always interested in religion, and it influenced his work as a journalist. He was attracted to the order and ancient beauty of Roman Catholicism, and after he met Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, he gave serious thought to converting.
 He ultimately decided against it because his problem was ''not only with Christianity and Catholicism but with religion and faith in general.'' He added, ''Rationally, I was convinced that the universe without God made no sense, but that simply was not the same as believing.'' 
 He said that he felt the need for faith, ''but I also knew that I could not argue myself, or be argued, into faith.'' Nevertheless, he wrote his final book, ''A Saint, More or Less'' (Random House, 2004), a novel, his first, based on the life of Nicole Tavernier, who lived in France during the reign of Henry IV and who was said to perform miracles. It bore his sensibilities about organized religion and received good if brief reviews. 
 Henry Anatole Grunwald was born on Dec. 3, 1922, in Vienna, the son of Alfred Grunwald, a reasonably successful librettist of several Viennese operettas, and the former Mila Lowenstein. In the early days of World War II, the Grunwalds left Vienna and settled briefly in Czechoslovakia, then in Paris, where the French suspected that all Germans and Austrians might be potential enemy aliens. Alfred Grunwald was sent to an internment camp for a few weeks. In 1940, after the German troops and armored forces had breached the Maginot Line, the Grunwalds fled south, away from the advancing German army. They stayed briefly in Biarritz, Morocco, and Lisbon before finally coming to New York.
 They settled on the West Side of Manhattan, where Henry attended Haaren High School, at 10th Avenue and 59th Street, where he started a student magazine called Variety and served as editor in chief. It consisted of 18 typewritten mimeographed pages and lasted for two issues. 
 After high school, he abandoned his plans to become an engineer and sought a place in letters. Since N.Y.U. had an undergraduate program in journalism, he decided to go there. But he quickly concluded that undergraduate journalism courses were ''a waste of time'' and switched his major to philosophy, where he studied with both Sidney Hook and James Burnham, who were among the best-known philosophers of their day.
 He also became editor of the N.Y.U. school newspaper, The Washington Square Bulletin, and at one point issued some scathing criticism of Clare Boothe Luce, who was the wife of Henry Luce, his future employer. But this did not prevent him from getting a part-time copy boy's job at Time magazine, which paid him $4.50 for each of the three nights a week that he worked. 
 He developed story ideas in this lowly position and peppered his boss with them. In the 1950's Mr. Grunwald tried very hard to immerse himself in American culture, even taking an extended vacation to the Midwest, to get a better sense of his adopted country. 
 When Mr. Grunwald retired, President Reagan named him ambassador to Austria. He enjoyed his return to Vienna. However, Kurt Waldheim, Austria's president, was under attack for his role in World War II, in which he served as a lieutenant in the German army.
 Mr. Waldheim, who in the 1980's had served as United Nations secretary general, vigorously denied the charge that he had engaged in war crimes while stationed in the Balkans, but the United States placed him on its list of undesirable aliens. Mr. Grunwald said he would go to all state functions at which Mr. Waldheim officiated, but would not attend strictly social events. He returned to the United States after serving two years in Vienna.
 In his later years, Mr. Grunwald kept active but was limited by his poor vision, which was caused by macular degeneration. He started to notice it as he finished his autobiography and in another book, ''Twilight,'' published by Knopf in 1999, he explained how he invoked humor to help deal with the effects of the disease. He said he once mistook a statue of a monkey in a Paris restaurant for the maitre d', and on another occasion he greeted Princess Diana, whom he did not know, because he thought she was Diane Sawyer, whom he did. 
 Mr. Grunwald's first wife, the former Beverly Suser, whom he married in 1953, died in 1981. In 1987 he married Louise Melhado. She survives him, as do three children by his first wife: Mandy, of Washington, D.C.; Lisa Grunwald Adler, of Manhattan; and Peter, also of Manhattan; a stepson, Bob Savitt, of Greenwich, Conn.; and four grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry A. Grunwald in 1997, 10 years after retiring as Time's top editor. He was also ambassador to Austria., (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); REFUGEES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); LIBERALISM (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); VERDICTS (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); JURY TRIALS (67%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIME INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (91%); AUSTRIA (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



594 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Reading the Future in Tehran

BYLINE: By Kenneth M. Pollack. 
Kenneth M. Pollack is the director of research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, and the author, most recently, of ''The Persian Puzzle: The Conflict Between America and Iran.''

 BODY:

THE CRISIS
The President, the Prophet, and the Shah -- 1979 and the Coming of Militant Islam.
By David Harris.
470 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $26.95.
 FOR most of the last 50 years or so, the United States has neglected the Muslim states of the greater Middle East. Neglected not in the sense of ignoring them -- we certainly have been forced to pay attention -- but in the sense of doing painfully little to help them develop economically, politically and socially. We have rarely applied much pressure to the autocrats of the region, nor have we been willing to invest significant economic resources or political clout to make it more attractive for them to liberalize.
 In the coffee shops of the Middle East, where only conspiracies are believed and the simple truth is considered naivete or duplicity, America's motives are invariably assumed to be malicious. The conspiracy theorists are nearly always wrong. But there's no question that our neglect has contributed to many of the area's problems. 
 Sept. 11, 2001, was not the first time this neglect cost us dearly. There were plenty of other dates before it. The first was Nov. 4, 1979. On that day, 300 zealous Iranian college students stormed the United States Embassy in Tehran and took 66 American marines and diplomats hostage in a crisis that would last over a year. (Three of them were trapped in the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and 14 would be released for different reasons in subsequent months.) 
 The story of the origins of that crisis should by now be disturbingly familiar. The United States backed a friendly autocrat, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, who repressed his people. The result was tremendous popular animosity toward him, and toward the United States for being his ally. When the pressure reached the bursting point, America was as much a target of Iranian furor as the shah himself. For nearly a year after his fall, Iranians looked for a way to lash out at the United States, until those 300 college students showed them how.
 In truth, in Iran as elsewhere in the Middle East today, America's sins were principally those of omission, not commission. Of course, the Eisenhower administration had toppled the popular government of Mohammed Mosaddegh in 1953 -- an event that has reached mythic proportions in Iranian minds. Thereafter, however, the United States paid little attention to what the reinstalled shah did. The Kennedy administration pressed him to reform, and got some traction for a brief time. But during the Johnson and especially the Nixon years, Washington simply stopped caring how the shah ruled. This was little understood by Iranians, who believed the United States was manipulating every development in their country.
 Our painful experience with revolutionary Iran should teach us that there are other threats from America's neglect of the Muslim Middle East besides Osama bin Ladin and Al Qaeda. In the midst of a new war on terror, it is worth remembering the anger and frustration that Americans felt during those 444 days, when we first found ourselves attacked by an adversary who hated us with a fury we did not understand, motivated by beliefs we did not understand and pursuing a logic we did not understand. The danger that we face today is that the past could be our future if we are not willing to try to help the Middle East progress -- though slowly, very slowly, because haste could cause the same kinds of problems we are trying to avoid.
 For those looking to remember and reassess that awful day of Nov. 4, 1979, David Harris, the author of ''Dreams Die Hard'' and other books, has provided a marvelous place to start. His new book, ''The Crisis,'' is quite simply terrific to read. Harris is a master storyteller, and ''The Crisis'' ranks with Mark Bowden's ''Black Hawk Down'' and Robert Kaplan's ''Balkan Ghosts'' as a work of engrossing nonfiction. 
 Given the fact that the hostage crisis was a 444-day ordeal, this is an extraordinary feat. To date, the best accounts (Gary Sick's ''All Fall Down'' comes immediately to mind, though it is now almost 20 years old) have been illuminating and thought-provoking. But like the crisis itself, many of them required considerable stamina to plow through all of the wrong turns and dead ends.
 Harris has done his homework on a topic that defies quick familiarity. He traveled to Iran and interviewed some of the players on the other side. He has also benefited from both the relative thaw in relations between Tehran and Washington after Mohammed Khatami's election to Iran's presidency in 1997 and the publication of memoirs by virtually everyone involved on the American side. However, what ultimately makes this book so enjoyable is Harris's ability to sustain a reader's interest through the entire affair.
 He does this in part by concentrating on a handful of key personalities -- President Carter, the shah, Ayatollah Khomeini, Abolhassan Bani-Sadr (Iran's first president) and Sadegh Ghotbzadeh (Iran's foreign minister). All are fascinating men, and Harris does a superb job sketching their portraits. He has an eye for the revealing detail -- like the shah's appetite for Lufthansa stewardesses (as compared to the austerity of Khomeini's daily routine). And he displays a deft touch in evoking images, like the ''two obsidian hedges'' of the ayatollah's eyebrows. 
 Harris no less deftly interweaves the experiences of the hostages, the student terrorists, the officials of the Carter administration and the few Iranians who actually recognized the damage the crisis was doing to their country. He captures the vicious feuds within the Carter administration in a way that even the participants themselves would probably admire. Then there are the minor, but no less intriguing characters he vividly portrays -- like Christian Bourguet and Hector Villalon, who tried to broker a deal between Washington and Tehran; Robert Armao, recommended by David Rockefeller to take care of the shah in exile; and Hamilton Jordan, Carter's young chief of staff, who played an overlooked role in the crisis.
 TO be sure, Harris has paid a price for making his book so readable. Much editing was required, and some of what got left on the cutting room floor was important. Nowhere, for instance, is there mention of Gen. Robert Huyser, who was sent to Iran by President Carter immediately after the fall of the shah to persuade Iran's armed forces either to support the liberal government he left behind, or to stage a military coup if that failed. For many Iranians, Huyser's mission was the single most important American act of the entire imbroglio. 
 Similarly, the two Iranians Harris concentrates on during the latter parts of the book -- Bani-Sadr and Ghotbzadeh -- were the two who understood what was best for Iran, but lost the lethal internal political battles. Although it was the ''bad guys'' who ultimately triumphed, ''The Crisis'' has little to say about them. That's unfortunate. The bad guys are important not only because they still rule in Iran, but because we run the risk that other autocrats in the Middle East will be replaced by equally fanatical Islamists. That's the problem with America's approach to the Middle East over the past five decades; in ignoring the hardest of the problems, we have often missed what is most important. And as David Harris's admirable book warns, what we ignore can come back to bite us -- hard.hAndrew Solomon's ''Noonday Demon'' received a National Book Award in 2002. He is currently writing a book about families grappling with traumatic difference.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); LITERATURE (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (51%) Kenneth M Pollack; David Harris

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



595 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: HealthSouth Loses Mr. Right

 BODY:
When the HealthSouth Corporation welcomed Lee S. Hillman to its board in September 2003, it noted his experience as a chief executive, a chief financial officer, an audit partner with a global accounting firm and a corporate turnaround expert.
 Just the guy to run the audit committee, right? Especially as HealthSouth tried to recover from an accounting scandal that led five former chief financial officers to plead guilty to charges. 
 ''Lee Hillman is a business professional with extensive experience in running a successful corporation,'' Joel C. Gordon, HealthSouth's interim chairman, said at the time.
 This month, however, Mr. Hillman's former employer, Bally Total Fitness, accused him and another executive, John W. Dwyer, of ''multiple accounting errors'' that will force it to restate more than three years of earnings. (Bally also suspended severance payments it has made to Mr. Hillman since he retired in December 2002.)
 Mr. Hillman, 47, quit the HealthSouth board this month, two days after the company said it had received a ''request for information'' from the United States attorney for the District of Columbia in connection with a criminal investigation being conducted by that office. Mr. Hillman did not respond to a message requesting an interview.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the Suits column last Sunday, about a former director of the HealthSouth Corporation, misidentified a company that received a ''request for information'' from a United States attorney in connection with a criminal investigation. It was Bally Total Fitness, where he had been chief executive, not HealthSouth. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: BACK TO THE STREET -- Stephen Friedman, left, rejoined the board of Goldman Sachs, where he has spent most of his career, after resigning as the director of President Bush's National Economic Council. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (53%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEALTHSOUTH CORP (94%); BALLY TOTAL FITNESS HOLDING CORP (57%)

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (94%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (94%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (94%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (94%); NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (57%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



596 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/Brooklyn; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Working in a Walled-Off Boomtown

BYLINE: By SUZANNE HAMLIN

 BODY:
ERIC DEUTSCH, president and chief executive of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, said his children, Adam, 8, and Emily, 6, who beg to visit his workplace, call the Navy Yard ''gigungus,'' probably as dead-on accurate as one descriptive could be. Now a virtual theme park of 21st-century commerce housed in 19th- and 20th-century shipyard buildings, the Navy Yard is experiencing the same real estate demand taking place in most of the rest of the city. 
 The complex on the East River, today the largest commercial leasing space in the city, covering 300 acres, has been in continuous operation since 1801, when the federal government bought it for $40,000 from a local landowner and commissioned it the New York Naval Shipyard. It may also be one of the city's most beautiful industrial spots, a mishmash of old warehouses filled with natural light, offering unobstructed views of the Manhattan skyline directly across the East River. 
 During the 19th century, it was the builder of Navy vessels that fended off Barbary pirates and fought in the War of 1812, the Civil War and the Spanish-American War. During World War II, it was the largest naval construction facility in the United States. 
 But in 1966, when increasingly large ships were blocked by the Brooklyn Bridge, the Navy moved its shipbuilding to warmer climes. The Navy Yard was sold to the City of New York for $22 million, and the historic shipyard gradually became a desolate site, emblematic of the city's economic decline. 
 Today, this seems a very distant memory. The Navy Yard has become a virtual boomtown, a walled mall of 3.5 million square feet of commercial space. Its 40 warehouses and old shipyard buildings are almost fully leased by 230 industrial and manufacturing enterprises, from food and book distributors to small manufacturing companies, and a substantial number of artists and craftsmen.
 The leasing program, in effect since the late 1960's, has expanded significantly in the last two years, since the Navy Yard became part of the city's capital budget, gaining $71 million for infrastructure improvements. Because the Navy Yard is nonprofit, tenants pay rents that do not include real estate taxes.
 Annual rents are $6 to $16 a square foot, depending on the space (smaller spaces pay the higher rates). With ample parking for trucks and cars, the Navy Yard has none of the loading and unloading hassles of many other New York City locations. It is strategically located between the Brooklyn and Williamsburg Bridges, with easy access to the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and two major airports. 
 Parking doesn't appear to be a problem. Loading and unloading are a comparative breeze compared with Lower Manhattan, where many sculptors and architectural fabricators have traditionally had their workshops. The huge freight elevators in the old commercial buildings once used for shipbuilding are still commodious heavy load lifters. 
 The central location makes the appeal of the yard obvious for warehouses and distribution centers. For artists and craftsmen, the quick access to Manhattan is ideal. 
 And then there are the space, light and views. The vast windowed warehouse spaces, the most precious commodity for many artists and sculptors, are suffused with clear light from the East River. The unobstructed views of Lower Manhattan seem to belong to another era. 
 Midway between the Brooklyn Bridge and the Williamsburg Bridge, the Navy Yard takes up all of Wallabout Bay, with a clear view across the East River to Corlears Hook, a projecting point of land on the Lower East Side. 
 For Robert Ferraroni, co-owner with Jeff Kahn of Ferra Designs Inc., a metal fabrication company, parking in Manhattan when he delivers his work is still a problem. He has, however, eliminated the parking tickets he amassed in Williamsburg, where his shop was located until three years ago. At the Navy Yard, the huge cranes once used by shipbuilders and still in place have proved invaluable for hoisting a recent project, a glass and stainless steel catwalk that will span open space in a Manhattan town house. 
 Owned by the city and managed by the not-for-profit Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, the yard has annual rent revenues that are approaching $18 million, according to Thomas Maiorano, vice president of the corporation and the leasing manager. ''I've got stick-it notes all over my computer right now from people looking for space,'' he said.
 The largest space, one million square feet, is now leased by S&F Warehousing, a commodities warehouse, although smaller spaces, from 1,200 to 1,800 square feet, are particularly sought after. 
 Susan Woods, an artist who owns Susan Woods Studios, moved to the Navy Yard from nearby Dumbo in 1998, when the rents went up. ''I couldn't afford to live there anymore, much less work there,'' she said. 
 Her only quibble with the Navy Yard is not being allowed to have an on-site retail studio. It is not open to the public, and there are five 24-hour security gates. 
 That security, though, is part of the yard's appeal to its commercial tenants. ''Sometimes I work here late at night, and I feel absolutely safe, even when I'm working by myself,'' Ms. Woods said. 
 For Scott Jordan, the owner of Scott Jordan furniture, the Navy Yard, where he has been a tenant since 1988, is a complete package of amenities. His 15,000 square feet of warehouse, inventory and workshop space, filled with computers, woodworking tools and high-tech machinery, is secure. He bikes to work from his home in Brooklyn Heights and except in truly inclement weather, across the Brooklyn Bridge to his retail shop on Varick Street. And his large open workshop, flooded with natural light, is like a woodworking shop of 100 years ago. Although each of his seven furniture makers is responsible for a different aspect of each piece of hand-assembled furniture, ''we can all see what the other is doing -- it's a complete flow operation.'' 
 Both gorgeous and gritty, the Navy Yard is an irresistible photographic journey; Henri Cartier-Bresson, Richard Avedon and Annie Leibovitz have all shot there. Episodes of ''Law and Order,'' ''Criminal Intent'' and ''CSI New York'' have been filmed here. 
 And almost completed on 15 leased acres of Navy Yard land, the newly built Steiner Studios, a $118 million film and television studio complex, the largest on the East Coast, already has one production under way: ''The Producers,'' starring the Brooklyn-born Mel Brooks, is being filmed now in and around a custom-designed set, including a five-story replica of 42nd Street. 
 For Douglas C. Steiner and his father, David S. Steiner, partners in Steiner Equities Group, the 280,000-square-foot studio is a first. It was designed after a year of consultation with West Coast filmmakers and producers. The resulting studio is a state-of-the-art space, including sound stages with a towering 45-foot grid height. 
 Created for start-to-finish production of major movies, television shows, videos and commercials, Steiner Studios is a movie lot within a space that could be a movie lot. 
 With the East River on one side, the entire complex is surrounded on its land side by a serpentine stretch of high walls and fences, enclosing it completely, much like a medieval walled city. Even to many longtime New Yorkers, the Navy Yard remains an enigma, open to romantic interpretation, although the yard's new incarnation has had a decided impact on its surrounding neighborhoods, where real estate, both old and newly developed, is getting more expensive by the week. 
 Vinegar Hill, to the west of the Navy Yard, is experiencing increased condo development, as is Williamsburg to the north. 
 Along Flushing Avenue, which runs parallel to the Navy Yard and where condominium developments are already rising, construction is to begin on 60,000 square feet of commercial space, with much of it planned for neighborhood-oriented stores. 
 Members of the present Navy Yard community must hope fervently that some of those stores will be food-related. As of now, the 7,000 workers in the Navy Yard either brown-bag it or order takeout from Myrtle Avenue, a good 15-minute walk away. ''We tried having a food service facility here, but the menu planning got complicated, trying to accommodate all the ethnic groups who work here," Mr. Deutsch said hurriedly one afternoon recently as he jumped into his van, heading up to Brooklyn Heights, a couple of miles away, for a pizza.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SPACE GALORE -- With more than 3.5 million square feet of space in a property of 300 acres, the Brooklyn Navy Yard has a long list of potential tenants. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NO RETAIL SPACE -- Susan Woods, who owns Susan Woods Studios, said her only complaint was not being able to have a retail studio on the site.
AN IDEAL LOCATION -- Eric Deutsch, left, president, and Tom Maiorano, vice president for leasing, in Mr. Deutsch's office overlooking the East River.
 ELBOW ROOM -- At Ferra Designs, the shipyard cranes have been valuable for hoisting large-scale projects. A co-owner, Jeff Kahn, is in the foreground. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (91%); SHIPBUILDING (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUDGETS (86%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); MARITIME PIRACY (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); AIRPORTS (50%); PUBLISHING TRADE (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Factories and Industrial Plants; Brooklyn Navy Yard; Renting and Leasing; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: BROOKLYN NAVY YARD DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (94%) Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (91%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (91%)

PERSON: Suzanne Hamlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



597 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Chairman Challenges Governors to Improve High Schools

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, delivered a blistering critique of American high schools on Saturday, and his foundation promised $15 million to states to make immediate improvements. 
 Mr. Gates, speaking to the National Governors Association, said that ''America's high schools are obsolete'' and are ''ruining the lives of millions of Americans every year.'' 
 High schools, he said, leave most students unprepared for college and for today's jobs. ''When I compare our high schools with what I see when I'm traveling abroad,'' he added, ''I am terrified for our work force of tomorrow.''
 To address the problem, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation said it would give $15 million to the National Governors Association, to be disbursed to states that take significant steps to improve their high schools.
 Marie Groark, a spokeswoman for the foundation, said states would have to develop proposals and compete for the grants.
 To qualify, she said, a state would have to match the foundation's grants with its own money. In addition, each state would have to devise a plan to improve its high schools -- for example, by adopting rigorous academic standards, revising curriculums and developing tests to ensure that students have the skills needed for college or for better-paying jobs.
 The Gates Foundation said it had invested $733 million in more than 1,500 high schools -- about 8 percent of all public high schools -- in the last five years.
 In a roundtable discussion with several journalists, Mr. Gates said, ''What we know about graduation rates, the people who graduate and the skills they have -- it paints a very scary and almost shameful picture of the contrast between the idea of education as a great equalizer and the actual state of affairs.''
 Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia, a Democrat who is chairman of the association, said: ''Three out of 10 students who enter high school do not graduate. Four out of 10 who do graduate lack the skills and knowledge to go on to college or to succeed in the work force. The economic ramifications of that could be devastating to our country.''
 Mr. Gates, one of the world's wealthiest people, said there were moral as well as economic reasons to upgrade high schools, which he portrayed as a crossroads where children's paths diverge. ''Some go on to lives of accomplishment and privilege,'' he said. ''Others, to lives of frustration, joblessness and jail.''
 Mr. Gates, whose mother was once a schoolteacher, said states should publish detailed data showing the percentages of children who drop out of high school or go on to college, broken down by race and income. The data, he said, would expose ''the injustice'' of the current system.
 ''In district after district,'' Mr. Gates said, ''wealthy white kids are taught Algebra II while low-income minority kids are taught to balance a checkbook.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, told the nation's governors that his foundation would offer $15 million to improve public high schools. (Photo by Evan Yucci/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (55%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (75%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%); MARK WARNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



598 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Serene South Asks, Who Needs Baghdad?

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq 

 BODY:
THE fake palm trees with the Vegas-style lights are still in their places above what was the Dolphin Restaurant on Watan Street, swaying on the roof as garish survivors from the 1980's, when wealthy men from Kuwait, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia would come to party through the weekend on perhaps the hottest stretch of casinos and nightclubs in the gulf.
 Along with its cheesy palm trees, Basra has survived years of shelling during the Iran-Iraq war, brutal persecution by Saddam Hussein, total neglect of the local infrastructure, and two invasions by American-led forces. The worn but gracious city that has emerged -- the de facto capital of a proud, abruptly liberated and comparatively peaceful south -- seems to be in a different country from the grim battlefield that much of Iraq has become.
 And if no inconsiderable number of people here have their way, the provinces of the south, home to rich oil reserves but kept poor by Saddam Hussein, will soon become a separate country, or at least a semi-autonomous region in a loosely federal Iraq. The clear southern preference for profit over politics could make it a place where foreign companies willing to invest hard cash are able to do business. 
 ''Quite a few people prefer to be separated, because they are disappointed,'' said Sadek A. Hussein, a Basra native who is a professor in the college of agriculture at the University of Basra, and who speaks with the mildness characteristic of southern Iraq. The trait is refreshing in itself, in a country better known for its firebrands, chatterboxes and just plain loudmouths.
 Still, Jameel Jassim, 50, who works as a driver at the university and who was ferrying Dr. Hussein around Basra on Thursday, was more direct. ''I do prefer that, to be isolated as a state,'' Mr. Jassim said.
 Beneath the soft sell, the raw stubbornness of this culture of survivors is not to be underestimated. Dr. Hussein and others say that instead of continuing to send all the oil money north to Baghdad, officials should immediately use it to rebuild Basra and the south, where there is little visible sign of new public investment and the few major projects undertaken by the American-led coalition have not been very successful. Some members of the local governing council recently went as far as trying to impose a 10 percent tax on oil revenue from the south, but they were stymied by legal barriers.
 If southerners cannot put a stop to the great sucking sound to the north, many would like to see an international boundary between them and the capital. ''They see all of the good things going to Baghdad,'' said Ramzi, a translator who asked that only his first name be used.
 The federalist and separatist ambitions of the Kurds in northern Iraq are widely known. As peaceful and cohesive as much of that region is, though, its vision is complicated by the presence of Kurdish populations in neighboring countries, and fears that an independent Kurdistan could encourage uprisings there.
 But the south of Iraq is just that, the south of Iraq, with no wider ethnic entanglements to worry about, just a close religious affinity with neighboring Iran, which, like southern Iraq, is overwhelmingly Shiite. 
 Several different versions of a southern Iraqi republic have been proposed. One would include only the three or four southernmost provinces -- Basra, Muthanna, Dhi Gar and Maysan; and another would stretch as far north as the holy city of Karbala, 50 miles from Baghdad.
 The one that sparks the most interest here, though, is a Singapore-style Republic of Basra alone. Comparable in area to neighboring Kuwait, such a republic could be equally rich. With foreign investment, Ramzi asserted, its economy could overtake that of the tiny but sparkling Gulf emirate of Qatar within three years.
 And Zuhair Kubba, a board member of the Basra Chamber of Commerce, said that, in contrast to the xenophobia dogging other regions of Iraq, Basra's history made it likely to welcome foreign investment.
 ''They have a port, and being a port, they have experience with foreigners,'' said Mr. Kubba, a follower of the largely pacifist and apolitical Sheikhi branch of Shiite Islam, whose holiest cleric, Sayyed Ali Al-Mousawi, is based in a Basra mosque.
 Some foreign companies, including Kellogg, Brown & Root, the Halliburton subsidiary that is repairing parts of Iraq's oil industry under American government contracts, are already listening. The company is moving its center of operations from the insurgency-ridden streets of Baghdad to the south, said Ray Villegas, a general manager for the company, and not just to be closer to its field work, which is mainly in the south. 
 ''This is the place you want to be,'' Mr. Villegas said. ''It's much different down here. You have flat open land, so you have a lot of visibility. We don't have the day-to-day traffic problems that you experience up in Baghdad, so the opportunity is much less for insurgents to act.''
 Most of all, he said, ''we've found that the Iraqis here are much more willing and accommodating to approach the Americans.''
 Theories of where the mild and nonconfrontational southern personality originates are plentiful. Waseem Yacoub, a sales and marketing manager for Al Yakeen Company, which among other things finds Iraqi applicants for jobs with Kellogg, Brown & Root, said that in contrast to the urban chaos of Baghdad, the south had preserved the sturdy fabric of tribal loyalties. 
 Bearing obscure names like Al Ghizi (Mr. Yacoub's tribe), Aboudi (his boss's tribe), Al Battat and the feared crime family Al Garamsha, the tribal sheikhs typically agree to ensure protection for companies that hire their sons, Mr. Yacoub said.
 ''When we want to choose someone to work here, must ask about his name, his tribe,'' Mr. Yacoub said in slightly broken English. ''We want to protect from his tribe -- without stalling, without danger.''
 Others point to the relatively relaxed approach that British troops, who have responsibility for this part of the country, have taken to providing security. Perhaps with the experience of Northern Ireland in mind, the British often appear to go out of their way to be cordial and to resolve conflicts without resorting to firepower, as American troops in fractious cities like Baghdad often do. 
 Whether because of the British tactics, the unwillingness of tribal leaders to tolerate mayhem or other factors, the incidence of violence in the south has been low. Attacks on critical oil pipelines and facilities in the region were common a year ago, but there have been none so far in 2005. 
 Another school of thought holds that there is something inherently gentle about people of the south. Sayyed Abdul Ali Al-Mousawi, the son of the Sheikhi leader, said in an interview just before prayers on Friday that there was an Arabic word, saathij, that described the southern temperament.
 Tapping the word into an electronic translator, Sayyed Mousawi and his visitors saw these English equivalents appear: simple, unsophisticated, credulous. The same traits, he said, helped explain why southerners' political rights always seemed to be usurped by the sharpsters of Baghdad. ''They usually make a trick on them,'' Sayyed Mousawi said, chuckling.
 The Jan. 30 electoral victory of a southern-based Shiite coalition closely allied with Iran may help redress some of those grievances without secession. The Shiite coalition has, like the American authorities, said it is committed to a unitary Iraq, one that the country's Shiite majority now has its first chance to govern. 
 The same coalition, with its deep interest in impressing Islamic law into the new Iraqi constitution, could keep the lights on the palm trees above the former Dolphin Restaurant from coming to life again. (Inside the building, there is now a company that supplies food to the Iraqi national guard.)
 But it has not escaped Baghdad's notice that the south has already begun flexing its muscles. One of the most powerful men in the south, Jabbar A.H. Al-Ueibi, director general of the government-owned South Oil Company, has drawn the ire of his superiors in the oil ministry for failing to consult them before making major decisions concerning the south's most precious resource.
 Americans in the south, who profess deep respect for Mr. Jabbar , know him as ''the godfather'' -- not for any crime connections, but because of the incalculable loyalty his position has won him among the people of Basra. And like Marlon Brando when he was temporarily overmatched, Mr. Jabbar knows that now is not the time to hurl challenges toward Baghdad.
 ''During the era after the war,'' Mr. Jabbar said in an interview, referring to the 2003 invasion, ''there was no government, there was no law, there was nothing. So I prefer to take a decision as my responsibility, and now there is a lot of questions about this. 'Why did you take decision on this?'''
 ''Anyway,'' Mr. Jabbar said in a low, almost mumbling voice. ''I don't want to bother you with my troubles, okay?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Basra's peaceful, apolitical Shiekhi branch of Shiite Islam is centered in the Mousawi mosque.
Basra, the main city in southern Iraq, has the relative security and political stability that Baghdad lacks. What the region hungers for is the investment Saddam Hussein denied it. (Photographs by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Southerners to Watch''SAYYED ALI AL-MOUSAWIRevered cleric, heads the Hassawi Shiekhi branch of Shiite Islam, an alternative to the one led by Grand Ayatollah Ali Al-Sistani.Adherents spread through the gulf states and Saudi Arabia. From one Basra resident: ''He's very peaceful, and his people are the same. But if you mess with them, God help you.'' Friday prayers at his mosque are one of the biggest weekly events in Basra.SAYYED ALI AL-HAKIMAli Al-Sistani's representative in Basra. He is in the same tribe as Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, head of a principal party in the victorious Shiite political coalition.JABBAR A. H. AL-UEIBIDirector General of the government-controlled South Oil Company.In some ways, South Oil is to Basra what U.S. Steel was to Pittsburgh. Mr. Jabbar, from an old and powerful family, has so much influence in the region that Baghdad has moved to rein him in
he is said to have political ambitions.HASSANIEN AL-HAKIMChairman of the local governing council.An engineer
son of Sayyed Ali Al-Hakim.GHALIB KUBBAOwner of a Basra bank and others in Iraq. Extremely wealthy
power diminished at the moment as he fights corruption allegations.THREE POSSIBLE SHAPES FOR AN AUTONOMOUS SOUTH -- One idea calls for a carving out Basra province alone, perhaps as a city-state like Singapore or Kuwait
 another combines the four southern provinces. The most expansive plan calls for including all three of the Iraqi Shiite holy cities, Basra, Najaf and Karbala, in a single political entity.Map of Iraq highlighting major cities in the south.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); KUWAIT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



599 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3073 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Next Target: Malpractice Lawyers

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
TODD A. SMITH is one of the nation's leading medical malpractice lawyers, renowned and feared in the courtroom, having extracted a lengthy string of multimillion-dollar settlements and verdicts from doctors, hospitals and insurers over the years. Though wealthy even by the standards of his profession, Mr. Smith, 55, seems to have lost none of the intensity and passion that fuel his 12- to 14-hour workdays and make him a persuasive trial lawyer.
 Seated in his law firm's conference room, with an Olympian view high above Lake Michigan, Mr. Smith recited the details of his first courtroom victory in the summer of 1977, when he was a $12,000-a-year assistant public defender in the Cook County criminal courts. The defendant, he recalled, was an American Indian who was accused of armed robbery in a case that was based mainly on his race. The man was identified as the robber, for example, in a lineup that included him and a collection of off-duty, white police officers. ''It was terribly unfair,'' Mr. Smith said. 
 What drives Mr. Smith now, he says, is what drove him then: a desire to seek justice for people who need it, whether criminal defendants too poor to hire lawyers or victims of medical lapses whose lives have been ruined and face huge bills for care. ''You can make a significant contribution to someone's life, someone who might be in desperate straits,'' he explained. ''That's as rewarding as it gets for me. It's not really, or mostly, about money.'' 
 The Bush administration wants to make Mr. Smith's profession far less financially rewarding. Medical malpractice lawyers are cast as the marquee villains in the administration's war against what it regards as a litigious culture run amok. If there were a face in the bull's-eye in this political battle, it would be Mr. Smith's. He is not only a big-name medical malpractice lawyer, but he is also serving this year as the president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, the principal advocacy and lobbying group for trial lawyers. And within conservative circles and inside the White House, the term ''trial lawyer'' is an epithet. 
 This month, the administration won the first round in its fight to curb litigation, as Congress passed legislation to sharply restrict class-action lawsuits against companies. Next up is medical malpractice. In his re-election campaign, Mr. Bush repeatedly decried ''junk lawsuits'' as the bane of the nation's doctors. The issue was deftly framed, and the subtext was clear: greedy lawyers were attacking the Marcus Welbys of America, good doctors doing their best.
 In a speech last month in Illinois, Mr. Bush again called for strict limits on medical malpractice suits, including ''a hard cap of $250,000'' on what patients could recover for non-economic damages like physical and emotional pain and suffering. Returning to his election-year themes, Mr. Bush said doctors ''should be focused on fighting illnesses, not fighting lawsuits.'' 
 ''We need to fix a broken medical liability system,'' he said, and he called on Congress to act this year. This month, a medical litigation overhaul bill, mirroring the administration's proposals, was introduced in the Senate by two Republican senators, John Ensign of Nevada and Judd Gregg of New Hampshire. 
 THE medical liability system, health care analysts agree, is deeply flawed. But they also generally agree that the solution offered by the administration and the Republican Congress -- putting a ceiling on damages -- addresses only one aspect of the problem. 
 Medical liability policy, said Dr. William M. Sage, a physician and a law professor at Columbia University, should seek three goals: restraining overall costs, compensating the victims of medical mistakes and providing incentives for doctors and hospitals to reduce medical errors.
 ''There is a strong consensus among people who have really studied the issue that caps on damages would tend to keep costs down and make liability insurance more affordable for doctors,'' Dr. Sage said. ''And there is a universal consensus that caps would do absolutely nothing to reduce medical errors or to compensate injured patients. If anything, caps on damages would make those problems worse.''
 Medical malpractice laws vary state by state. But California offers a glimpse of a future preferred by the administration and many Republicans in Congress. In 1975, California passed the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act, which included a cap of $250,000 for damages like pain and suffering in malpractice cases. It did not limit economic damages for things like the cost of continuing care for a person disabled or wages lost because of medical errors. The law also curbed attorneys' fees on a sliding scale that prohibited them from collecting more than 15 percent on award amounts over $600,000, with higher percentages for the amounts below that sum. (In states without limits on fees, contingency payments to malpractice lawyers are typically about one-third of awards.)
 Research varies on the likely impact of curbs on awards and fees, but a RAND Corporation study last year concluded that the California law had reduced the net recoveries for plaintiffs by 15 percent and had cut attorneys' fees by far more, an estimated 60 percent. Defendant liabilities, it calculated, were trimmed 30 percent because of the law.
 California malpractice lawyers say the law also discourages them from taking wrongful-death cases if the victims are children or retirees. Those groups have no economic value by the cold logic of the courtroom because they are not earning salaries, so the maximum award would be $250,000. Complex cases, which often require many expert witnesses and years of research, can cost that much to bring to trial.
 Linda Fermoyle Rice, a medical malpractice lawyer in Woodland Hills, Calif., said she recently told the family of a 14-year-old boy who died unexpectedly in a hospital -- apparently from medical negligence, Ms. Rice said -- that she could not afford to pursue the case. ''The law has made it impossible for many victims to get access to the court,'' she said.
 Even plaintiffs who get to court often come away empty-handed. Nationally, defendants prevail in nearly 80 percent of the medical malpractice cases that go to trial. Many malpractice suits, legal analysts say, are filed by personal-injury lawyers, accustomed to handling simpler cases like those involving auto accidents, but not as experienced in medical negligence work. In a 2002 survey by the trial lawyers association, only 11 percent of its 60,000 members said medical malpractice was their primary area of practice; 40 percent replied that medical negligence cases were some part of their practice.
 Mr. Smith, a partner at Power, Rogers & Smith in Chicago, resides at the top of the medical malpractice mountain. He does some aviation litigation, but medical negligence claims account for 70 percent of his cases; in the last 17 years, he has won more than $300 million in verdicts and settlements for clients. Contingency fees collected by his firm would typically be 20 percent of the total, a limit set by Illinois state law on all awards over $1 million.
 So how much does he earn? ''Far less than you might expect,'' Mr. Smith replied. His firm employs 11 lawyers -- six working on medical malpractice cases, the remainder focusing on other personal-injury claims. It also employs four nurses as full-time researchers. Complex cases can require reams of expert testimony, years of investigation and hundreds of thousands of dollars to prepare. Medical malpractice lawsuits are custom work, focusing on one victim at a time, as opposed to large class actions against an entire industry, like the $246 billion tobacco settlement that trial lawyers helped 46 states win in 1998.
 There are no hourly fees and no well-heeled corporate clients paying for expenses. Trial lawyers are the venture capitalists of the legal system, putting their money on the line and taking upfront risk. The occasional big paydays cover the daily expenses.
 For all the costs, there is still plenty left over for Mr. Smith. He won't say precisely, but he concedes that his yearly income is routinely in the high six figures, and seven figures in good years, which appear to have been plentiful recently. That would put him on a par with partners at leading corporate law firms.
 At one time, corporate law would have seemed the natural choice for Mr. Smith. In 1973, he was a freshly minted M.B.A. from Northwestern University's graduate school of business, now called the Kellogg School of Management, and most of his job offers were from banks in the Chicago area. But he says he balked at what struck him as an anonymous career within the crowded managerial ranks of a big bank. He became intrigued by the law and enrolled at the Loyola University law school; while there, he started working for the public defender's office.
 In that office, Mr. Smith got his first taste of trial work, and he vividly described the thrill of standing in the huge courtrooms of the Cook County criminal court and the exhilaration of presenting cases. ''It was real life, and the outcome really mattered to people's lives,'' he said.
 The most skilled trial lawyers, legal professionals agree, truly savor the theater of the courtroom, the adrenaline rush of verbal combat, the on-the-fly decisions made in cross-examination and the challenge of winning over an audience. ''In the end, it all depends on the judgment of 12 people,'' Mr. Smith noted.
 But medical malpractice work requires more than a deft touch in court. According to colleagues and courtroom adversaries, Mr. Smith combines a relentless work ethic -- needed to absorb the arcane details of medical science -- and an underlying belief that his clients are victims who have suffered grave injustices. 
 ''The best plaintiffs lawyers in this field, like Todd Smith, almost have a crusader mentality,'' said Brian C. Fetzer, a leading malpractice defense lawyer in Chicago, who has represented physicians, hospitals and insurers in cases against Mr. Smith for more than 20 years. ''They are true believers.''
 Joseph W. Balesteri, a lawyer who joined Power, Rogers & Smith in 2000, after five years working the defense side of medical negligence cases, said of his colleague: ''Todd gets into the medicine. He wears his emotions on his sleeve, and listening to him you really see that he believes what he says. It's a credibility that is felt by the jury.'' 
 Mr. Smith says his success rate is higher than 80 percent -- including jury verdicts and settlements -- far higher than the national average for medical malpractice plaintiffs' lawyers. Being picky in his selection of cases helps explain the high winning percentage. He says he decides to take fewer than 3 in 100 cases that are brought to his firm. ''We say to people right off that a bad outcome does not mean you have a medical negligence case,'' he said.
 The plaintiffs' lawyer must argue that a doctor or hospital failed to meet the profession's acknowledged standard of care for a certain operation, test or treatment, and, more important, must be able to prove it.
 Cases worth pursuing, Mr. Smith said, are typically ones in which the victim has suffered a major injury that results in continuing pain, suffering and disability. Brain damage, loss of a limb and facial disfigurement, he noted, are good candidates.
 AT his firm, potential cases go through rigorous screening that can take months and cost costs tens of thousands of dollars. The victim's medical records are collected after receiving the authorization of the patient or family. Those records are reviewed, and one of the firm's nurse-researchers assesses the care that the patient received. 
 Next, the case is sent to a consulting specialist -- often more than one. If the case still seems promising, the accumulated information is sent to a physician who determines whether the care was negligent enough to write a certificate of merit, required in Illinois and some other states, to be presented to the court.
 ''In his speeches, Bush makes it sound as if every lawsuit that is brought is junk or frivolous,'' Mr. Smith said. ''But we do everything we can to weed out cases that are without merit. We have to. Our own money is at risk.''
 The work, time, risk and potential rewards in complex malpractice suits are illustrated by a $20 million settlement Mr. Smith won last June. The origins of the case go back to 1997, when Huong Nguyen, then a 19-year-old sophomore at the University of Illinois at Chicago, was experiencing shortness of breath doing ordinary things like climbing stairs. She was diagnosed as having a faulty mitral valve, a pair of triangular flaps that regulate blood flow between two of the heart's chambers. The valve had to be repaired or replaced.
 The surgery lasted more than eight hours, though the procedure usually takes about half that long, Mr. Smith said. The next morning, Ms. Nguyen could squeeze her right hand, but she was otherwise paralyzed and could not speak. She had suffered severe brain damage.
 A lawyer referred the family to Mr. Smith, who began investigating. After an initial screening by Mr. Smith's firm, the family filed suit against the surgeon, Dr. Bradley S. Allen. Over the next several years, in preparation for trial, the law firm spent $375,000, much of it for the work of specialists like a cardiothoracic surgeon, neurologists, economists and a forensic videographer.
 Mr. Smith contended that Dr. Allen did not properly remove air from the patient's heart during the procedure and that the resulting air embolus caused brain damage. Dr. Allen's lawyer, Kevin T. Martin, said Ms. Nguyen's resulting disability was a risk in this kind of surgery and ''very unfortunate, but not a medical error.'' 
 The surgery had been videotaped, but when a court ordered Dr. Allen to produce the tape, there was a lengthy gap that included brief segments of television commercials. Had the case gone to trial, Mr. Smith would have contended that the defendant tampered with evidence, an assertion denied by Mr. Martin, who said the gap in the tape had resulted from a mechanical malfunction. 
 Ms. Nguyen is unable to move her arms or legs and cannot sit up or speak on her own. She communicates by tapping her right forefinger on a special keyboard. She suffers from depression and seizures but is cognitively intact. ''She is totally aware of her desperate straits,'' Mr. Smith said. ''This is as bad as it gets and she knows it.''
 Mr. Smith's economists estimated that lifetime care for her would cost up to $20 million. The settlement talks, Mr. Smith said, began a few months before the trial was scheduled to start, with the defense offers starting at $5 million and the Nguyen family deciding to settle at $20 million. ''It was entirely the family's decision,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I think we could have gotten more in trial.'' 
 Indeed, the risk for the defense, legal analysts say, is that the pain and suffering damages in such a heart-wrenching case, handled by a skillful medical malpractice lawyer like Mr. Smith, could lift the total award far higher. ''There wouldn't have been a dry eye in the house'' if Ms. Nguyen's case went to trial, said Mr. Martin, the surgeon's lawyer, who estimated that a jury award could have gone up to $100 million. 
 In settlements, defendants make no admission of guilt and typically try to add confidentiality agreements to the deal. Mr. Smith's firm, as a matter of policy, does not sign such agreements.
 In big malpractice cases, the administration's proposed cap of $250,000 for pain and suffering would change the terms of trade in settlement talks. In the case of Ms. Nguyen, for example, there were sizable economic costs -- for the care of the disabled patient -- though the defense would surely have argued that they were less than $20 million. But it is the prospect of unknown, and potentially astronomic, damages in a trial that can give plaintiffs a powerful hand in settlement negotiations.
 To Mr. Smith, the administration's battle against medical malpractice lawyers is simple to explain. ''It's about politics and money; it's not really about health care,'' he said. ''If you want to address the medical malpractice crisis in this country, do something about the medical errors. That's the real problem.'' 
 THE quality of medicine across the country is uneven, analysts agree, and that represents a huge problem. Medical errors are estimated to be responsible for 45,000 to 98,000 deaths a year -- more than those caused by breast cancer, AIDS or motor vehicle accidents, according to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
 So Mr. Smith has a point. But improving the quality of health care raises a separate set of complex issues about incentives for improvement, investment in information technology and changes in the culture of medicine. 
 Pointing the finger elsewhere will not get Mr. Smith and his fellow lawyers off the political hook. There have been calls to overhaul medical malpractice before. But this time the White House, doctors, insurers and other business interests, who see curbs on malpractice suits as one step in reducing their health costs, are pushing hard together. 
 The champions of tort reform are spending heavily. Last year, the Institute for Legal Reform, an affiliate of the Chamber of Commerce, and the American Medical Association, the physicians' advocacy group, spent a total of $33.8 million on lobbying, according to PoliticalMoneyLine, which tracks federal lobbying. The trial lawyers' association spent $2.9 million on federal lobbying, PoliticalMoneyLine reported.
 ''We're outgunned financially, and we're being targeted because we have supported candidates who support Americans' rights to access to a jury trial,'' Mr. Smith said.
 He has done his part. In the 2003-2004 campaign cycle, he contributed just under $100,000, nearly all of it to Democrats and Democratic political action committees, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group.
 Yet even if the Bush administration prevails and malpractice awards are curbed, the impact on Mr. Smith will probably be limited. It may crimp his style but not change his game. ''There will always be plenty of work for people like him, the best litigators on the plaintiffs side,'' said Dr. Sage, the Columbia law school professor.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Collinsville, Ill., last month, President Bush met with doctors after speaking about legislation that would cap medical malpractice awards. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)(pg. 8)
(Photograph of Todd A. Smith by Peter Thompson for The New York Times
illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Limiting Lawyers''A bill introduced in the Senate this month would place limits on attorneys' fees and the damages that plaintiffs collect in medical malpractice suits. The proposed law would be similar to one enacted by California in 1975.Highlights of the Senate billNON-ECONOMIC DAMAGESPhysical and emotional pain and sufferingPre-empts state law to require a ''hard cap of $250,000''LIMITS ON ATTORNEYS' FEESAccording to a sliding award scale:40% of the first $50,00033.3% of the next $50,00025% of the next $500,00015% of any amount over $600,000Lawyers' fees: a case studyCALIFORNIA LAW'S EFFECT ON ATTORNEYS' FEESBased on a 2004 RAND Corporation study of 257 plaintiff verdicts in California malpractice trials, 1995-1999.If awards were capped, but fees were not limited: -30%If fees were limited, but awards were not capped: -46%Fees and awards limited: -60%(Sources by Senators John Ensign and Judd Gregg
 RAND Corporation)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); LAWYERS (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); ROBBERY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); LOBBYING (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%); JOHN ENSIGN (50%); JUDD GREGG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005



600 of 609 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2398 words

HEADLINE: For Bush, a Long Embrace of Social Security Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26 

 BODY:
The conservative economists and public policy experts who trooped in to brief George W. Bush on Social Security not long after he was re-elected governor of Texas in 1998 came with their own ideas about how to overhaul the retirement program. But they quickly found that Mr. Bush, who was well into preparations for his first presidential race and had invited them to Austin for the discussion, already knew where he was headed.
 ''He never said, 'What should I do about Social Security?''' said one of the participants in the meeting, Martin Anderson, who had been a domestic policy adviser in the Reagan administration. ''On the day we talked about Social Security, he said, 'We have to find a way to allow people to invest a percentage of their payroll tax in the capital markets. What do you think?'''
 Mr. Bush had long been intrigued by the idea of allowing workers to put part of their Social Security taxes into stocks and bonds. One Tuesday in the summer of 1978, in the heat of his unsuccessful race for a House seat from West Texas, Mr. Bush went to Midland Country Club to give a campaign speech to local real estate agents and discussed the issue in terms not much different from those he uses now. 
 Social Security ''will be bust in 10 years unless there are some changes,'' he said, according to an account published the next day in The Midland Reporter-Telegram. ''The ideal solution would be for Social Security to be made sound and people given the chance to invest the money the way they feel.''
 Two decades later, Mr. Bush's desire to change Social Security intersected with the promotion of private accounts by well-financed interest groups and conservative research organizations, which viewed the concept as innovative if ideologically explosive. What was once a fringe proposal has been propelled to the forefront of the national agenda in one of the biggest gambles of Mr. Bush's political career, and in one of the most concerted challenges since the New Deal to liberal assumptions about the relationship of individuals, the government and the market.
 Mr. Bush has told aides that he cannot remember precisely when he was introduced to the idea of individual investing as part of Social Security, and until he ran for president he did not have a high profile on the issue. But he comes from a family with deep roots on Wall Street; his great-grandfather founded an investment bank, and his grandfather later ran Brown Brothers Harriman, one of the most prominent firms in the world of finance. His early political education included exposure to the ideas of Senator Barry Goldwater, the conservative standard-bearer who in 1964 was among the first Republicans to make a national issue of private investing as an alternative to traditional Social Security, and Ronald Reagan, who also took up the idea. 
 In Texas, before and during his years as governor, aides say, Mr. Bush learned about counties that had opted out of Social Security under an old federal provision and instead offered their employees investment accounts. As governor, his involvement in issues relating to Latin America piqued his interest in Chile's retirement system, which gave workers the chance to invest and became a prototype for other nations.
 As he prepared to run for president, Mr. Bush sought the opinions of people who shared his belief in private accounts, including Edward H. Crane, the president of the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization; Jose Pinera, the architect of the Chilean system; and even a Swedish official who helped revamp his nation's retirement program.
 ''My sense was that he was predisposed to go in that direction,'' said Mr. Crane, who along with Mr. Pinera discussed the issue over dinner with Mr. Bush and his wife at the governor's mansion in September 1997. ''I was surprised by how knowledgeable he was in terms of the questions he asked.''
 Other visitors to Austin also said they found Mr. Bush serious about the idea, and as the 2000 presidential election approached, increasingly convinced that the issue could be a political winner. In June 1999, Mr. Bush stood on a stage in Amana, Iowa, to announce that he was running for president. At the beginning of the speech, he set out three main goals: cutting taxes, reducing lawsuits and giving Americans ''the option of investing part of their Social Security contributions in private accounts.''
 In addressing Social Security, he waded into an issue that had been the subject of political wars since the system was founded in 1935. 
 In the 1964 Republican presidential primaries, Mr. Goldwater suggested that Social Security be made voluntary, saying many people would do better by investing on their own. He was excoriated for his position by his own party and in the general election by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Mr. Johnson's landslide victory over Mr. Goldwater helped cement Social Security's reputation as the ''third rail'' of American politics.
 But Mr. Goldwater won important converts, among them Ronald Reagan, who continued through the mid-1970's to promote the idea of private investing as an alternative. 
 It is not clear how much effect Mr. Goldwater and Mr. Reagan had on the development of Mr. Bush's position. But Mr. Bush's father was a Goldwater supporter, and in 1963, during Mr. Bush's senior year of prep school, he had a copy of ''Conscience of a Conservative,'' Mr. Goldwater's precampaign manifesto, according to ''First Son,'' a biography of Mr. Bush by Bill Minutaglio.
 In setting out one of the primary themes of ''Conscience of a Conservative,'' that of individual responsibility in society, Mr. Goldwater pointed to Social Security as an example of where conservatives believed people should be ''free throughout their lives to spend their earnings when and as they see fit.''
 Mr. Reagan clearly grabbed Mr. Bush's attention in 1978, when he backed Mr. Bush's opponent in the Republican primary for the House seat. Mr. Bush won the primary, but he remained under pressure in the general election to prove his conservative values. He ran on a platform of less regulation, lower taxes and other positions similar to those held by Mr. Goldwater and Mr. Reagan, including advocating private investment within Social Security.
 Looking back at the 1978 race, Mr. Bush's aides played down any influence that Mr. Reagan might have had on his thinking about Social Security. Mr. Bush's position, they said, was partly derived from the increasingly urgent problems the system faced-- it ran short of money and was nearly unable to pay benefits a few years later -- and from a deep belief in private ownership and the wealth-building power of markets.
 ''It was never a new idea,'' said Allan B. Hubbard, who attended Harvard Business School with Mr. Bush in the mid-1970's and is now director of the National Economic Council at the White House. ''It was always there, like tax cuts.''
 After Mr. Bush's defeat in the general election in 1978, another 16 years would pass before he ran for office again. During that period, the idea of private investing as part of Social Security all but disappeared from the national stage.
 But the concept was becoming entrenched in the conservative agenda. Around the time of Mr. Bush's House race, Peter Ferrara, a student at Harvard Law School, was writing a 600-page paper that examined the general hypothesis advanced by Mr. Reagan and Mr. Goldwater: that in terms of return on investment, Social Security was a lousy deal compared with the stock market.
 The paper came to the attention of Mr. Crane, who was then setting up the Cato Institute to promote limited government. Mr. Crane encouraged Mr. Ferrara to turn the paper into a book, which became the intellectual basis of Cato's long push, eventually joined by many other conservative and business groups, to inject private investing into Social Security.
 ''I wrote about it through the 1980's for every conservative think tank,'' Mr. Ferrara said. ''The idea was to spread ownership of the idea and make it a movement proposal.''
 But it was not until the mid-1990's that various forces pushed the idea back onto the public stage.
 One of those was the spread of private investing as a component of government-run pension systems in other countries. The approach taken by Chile had been adopted or expanded in various forms over the ensuing decade in Britain, Sweden and many developing nations. 
 Within the United States, workers had become increasingly comfortable with investing through 401(k) programs and individual retirement accounts, and by the late 1990's the stock market was booming, giving added allure to investing as a component of Social Security. Discussion of the concept was no longer restricted to Republican backbenchers.
 When President Bill Clinton proclaimed in 1998 that it was time to ''save'' Social Security from the financial pressures of an aging population, he explicitly endorsed using the returns available in the financial markets to help, either by having the government invest some of Social Security's money or allowing individuals to do it.
 ''If there's any way we can get a higher rate of return in a market economy, while minimizing the risk, whether it's in either one of these approaches, we ought to go for it,'' Mr. Clinton said on July 27, 1998.
 That same day, Mr. Bush met in Austin with a group of advisers that included George P. Schultz, a former secretary of state and treasury secretary; Michael Boskin, who had been head of the Council of Economic Advisers in the administration of Mr. Bush's father; and Mr. Anderson, the Reagan adviser. 
 That meeting grew from a less formal session Mr. Bush attended a few months earlier in Mr. Schultz's living room in Palo Alto, Calif. The gatherings covered most of the big domestic and foreign policy issues, including Social Security, and led to the establishment of an advisory system to help Mr. Bush delve more deeply into issues as he prepared for his presidential run. Over the next few years, he participated in discussions about the budgetary implications of moving to private accounts and in debates on detailed proposals.
 By that time, Mr. Bush had also become familiar with what amounted to a laboratory for Social Security privatization. In 1981, Galveston and two other counties in Texas opted out of the Social Security system. They instead allowed their employees to join a private investment program, financed by contributions roughly equal to the Social Security payroll tax. That program, like the one in Chile, became a model often cited by conservatives as evidence that private accounts could work, although whether they result in a better deal for retirees is a matter of debate.
 If Mr. Bush was hesitant, it stemmed from the political risks. Stephen Moore, a conservative activist, met with Mr. Bush in 1998 and found him sold on the principle of private accounts but not certain how to sell the country.
 ''His thought process was, how do you overcome the political obstacles to this?'' Mr. Moore said.
 Mr. Bush pressed ahead as if he had found the answer, but in some ways he never did. In the 2000 and 2004 elections, he talked in general about the advantages of private accounts, but he avoided details and never acknowledged in any but the vaguest of terms that putting Social Security on sound footing would involve benefit cuts.
 He may be paying the price for that strategy now. Faced with the reality that overhauling Social Security will require unpopular votes, his own party in Congress has proven unenthusiastic, and Democrats have been almost solid in their opposition.
 But Mr. Bush appears unbowed and no less committed to his approach than he was 27 years ago.
 ''I've touched it,'' Mr. Bush said in New Hampshire last week, referring to Social Security as the third rail of American politics. ''I touched it in 2000, when I campaigned here and around the country. I touched it in 2004. And I really touched it at the State of the Union, because I believe we have a problem.''

 Peter Ferrara, a student at Harvard Law School, begins work on a paper that examines whether Social Security is a bad deal relative to the returns available in the stock market. The paper is later expanded into a book that becomes the intellectual basis for the conservative movement's call to allow private investment accounts as part of Social Security.

1981 -- Chile enacts a plan under which workers invest for their retirement. It becomes a model for similar programs in other countries.
 Three counties in Texas opt out of Social Security under a provision in federal law and establish a program under which their workers invest for their retirements.

1983 -- Acting on the recommendations of a bipartisan commission led by Alan Greenspan, right, the Reagan administration and Congress avert a financial crisis in Social Security, largely by raising payroll taxes.

1994 -- The World Bank issues a report advocating public pension programs that include an investment component.

1997 -- Mr. Bush, as governor of Texas, meets with Jose Pinera, the architect of the Chilean plan and an advocate of Social Security privatization in the United States, and Edward H. Crane, president of the Cato Institute, a libertarian group that led the charge for private investment accounts.

1998 -- President Bill Clinton uses his State of the Union address to urge the nation to ''save Social Security first.'' He travels the country discussing options for making the system sound over the long run and endorses the concept of harnessing returns from financial markets to help.
 Mr. Bush holds policy meetings in preparation for his presidential run in which he tells participants that he wants to change Social Security to allow private investment accounts.

1999 -- Mr. Bush (shown above in 2000) announces he is running for president, and lists private investment accounts in Social Security as one of his top three goals.

2001 -- Mr. Bush appoints a commission to come up with private investment proposals for Social Security, but its work is overshadowed by the 9/11 terrorist attacks and the White House decides to leave the issue for a second term.

2005 -- Mr. Bush uses his State of the Union address to provide the first details of what his approach would look like, including allowing workers to place in investment accounts as much as 4 percent of their taxable earnings.

(pg. 22)

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Eric Draper/Associated Press)
(Photo by Midland Reporter-Telegram)
(Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)
 (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. 22)Chart: ''Investing and Social Security: The History of an Idea''1964 -- Senator Barry Goldwater, above, suggests that Social Security be voluntary. He comes under intense criticism from his opponent for the Republican presidential nomination, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, and in the general election from President Lyndon B. Johnson, who runs an anti-Goldwater commercial showing a Social Security card being torn in half.1975 -- Ronald Reagan, who continued to promote many of Mr. Goldwater's positions, says as he prepares to challenge President Gerald R. Ford for the Republican presidential nomination that Social Security could be made voluntary.1978 -- As a candidate for a House seat from Texas, George W. Bush, right, says the ''ideal solution'' to Social Security's financial problems is for workers to be ''given the chance to invest the money.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BONDS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); GOVERNORS (58%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MIDLAND REPORTER TELEGRAM (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2005

 
