

1001 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Playing by Our Rules

BYLINE: By Linda Robinson; Linda Robinson is the Latin America correspondent for U.S. News and World Report.

 BODY:

IN THE NAME OF DEMOCRACY
U.S. Policy Toward Latin America
in the Reagan Years.
By Thomas Carothers.
309 pp. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
$29.95. 
 DID the Reagan Administration help promote democracy in Central America, or did it cynically use democracy as a rationale to wangle aid from Congress to fight wars and then claim credit for the democratic change that swept through the region in the 1980's? Most Americans who followed that decade's policy battles reached their own conclusions years ago, and their answers, forged in the heat of controversy, were usually reflexive and categorical.
Finally, with "In the Name of Democracy," someone has painstakingly reviewed the record, not only of United States policy on Central America but also on South America, which rarely appeared on newspapers' front pages. Thomas Carothers, recently an international affairs fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations and now an attorney at the Washington firm of Arnold & Porter, was in those bitter days a State Department lawyer who helped implement some of Ronald Reagan's programs aimed at promoting democracy -- specifically, the effort to produce functioning justice systems in Central America. A typical toiler in the bureaucratic trenches, he never embraced the Reagan ideology, but tasted enough action to know the flavor of the times. For two years after he retreated to the relative safety and civility of think tanks, Mr. Carothers interviewed officials of all ranks, and then sat back to muse over whether the Reagan policies actually helped the cause of democracy in Latin America.
Mr. Carothers's answer is "a qualified no," and he argues this most convincingly in the cases of Nicaragua and El Salvador. The Reagan Administration, he says, was far more interested in fending off Communist threats than in building what most Americans would recognize as genuine democracy. But he also shows how, in El Salvador as elsewhere (Chile is the most notable South American example), Washington insisted that elected civilian government was the sine qua non for its assistance. In the case of Chile and Bolivia, strong advocacy of democratization was largely the work of activist United States ambassadors left alone by Reaganauts inside the Beltway.
While Mr. Carothers sees most of the Reagan Administration's efforts to promote democracy as mere rhetoric, he gives some credit to the United States for assisting transitions that occurred in the above countries and in Honduras, Paraguay and Haiti. Nicaragua's democratic elections of 1990 took place despite unremitting hostility from the Reagan Administration, but Mr. Carothers does not acknowledge that the Marxist Sandinista Government there accepted fair, closely observed elections as a way to get rid of the United States-supported contra resistance -- and that the Sandinistas were defeated because Nicaraguans were fed up with them.
Mr. Carothers is absolutely right that, even where the United States Government sincerely pursued democratization, it employed a narrow, formalistic definition, declaring any government that held free elections to be a democracy, even if civil liberties and functioning institutions were lacking. But taking the author's own definition of building democracy as an evolutionary project, the markers set out by the Reagan Administration were necessary first steps, if only partial ones, to achieving real democracy.
What is most valuable about this comprehensive study is its recognition that promoting democracy has now become perhaps the most important organizing principle for United States foreign policy in the post-cold war era. Mr. Carothers notes how rhetoric that was cynically employed in the early 1980's took on a life of its own; and he even credits the second Reagan term with realizing that democratization could solve many problems previously seen as purely security or geopolitical threats. "Although the Reagan Administration embraced the promoting democracy theme for its rhetorical value," he writes, "there is no question that over the course of the Reagan years the theme gathered some real substance and that an administration initially unsympathetic to what it saw as moralistic crusades abroad became sincerely interested in being a force for democracy in Latin America."
The ways in which the Reagan Administration supported democracy were flawed, but the flaws mostly occurred when sincere support for democracy was lacking. That does not discredit the goal itself, and now that the United States is faced with a growing global community of nascent democracies, it has every incentive to make the maintenance and furtherance of democracy its guiding principle. The Bush Administration has taken some steps to capitalize on the utility of democratic allies. In Nicaragua, for example, elections proved the route to ending war, and in most of Central America antagonists have now agreed to play out their differences according to democratic ground rules. Enormous economic and social problems still plague Latin America and other regions, but so long as troubled countries adhere to those democratic rules, they have some chance to pursue change within a framework of stability.
The merit of "In the Name of Democracy" is not so much that it provides a scorecard of the Reagan era, but rather that it looks at just how the United States can concretely support nations struggling to learn democratic ways. Unfortunately, Mr. Carothers undermines his own critique of the Reagan era, and its potential application to current times, by concluding that in fact the United States can do very little to support what he views as necessarily indigenous processes of change and reform.
The lessons he draws are pessimistic: that Latin America must make itself democratic and that the United States has a limited understanding of the region's problems. This is puzzling, since the author's own examples actually suggest that internationally monitored fair elections have set countries on the path to peace, and that with a greater commitment to reform the United States can push countries farther down that path. Of course we cannot create democrats out of whole cloth, but where they exist, United States backing has been important. Ask any Latin American democrat struggling against the weight of authoritarian traditions, and he will tell you he far prefers to have Washington on his side.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: IN THE NAME OF DEMOCRACY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NICARAGUA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CHILE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); BOLIVIA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); HAITI (79%); HONDURAS (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NICARAGUA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CHILE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); BOLIVIA (79%); PARAGUAY (79%); HAITI (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CALIFORNIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); LAWYERS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, LINDA; CAROTHERS, THOMAS RONALD REAGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



1002 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 29, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
Boffo? No. But Jobless 'Comics' Get a Laugh

BYLINE: By Nancy Marx Better

 BODY:
AS the recession drags on, entrepreneurs across America are trying their best to make a buck off it. One of them is 28-year-old Carylin Berger, manager of Stand-Up New York, a comedy club on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
In November, Ms. Berger created a competition for the title of "Funniest Unemployed Person in New York." The first qualifying round attracted a modest audience and earned a couple of reviews in local newspapers. The second qualifying round -- held the week before Christmas -- drew camera crews from three national television shows and a standing-room-only crowd. 
 "The best comic material relates closely to your own experience," said Ms. Berger. "Clearly, lots of people can relate to the issue of unemployment. That's why these evenings are a hit."
It's hardly due to the quality of the comedy. Of the 10 contestants who appeared in December, only two or three could legitimately be called funny. Several were passably humorous, while a few were downright depressing. Most, however, received thunderous applause; their friends and former colleagues filled the place to capacity.
After an emcee warmed up the house, the first would-be Jay Leno took the microphone at 9 P.M. Richard Eastman, an out-of-work book editor, smoothed his straight blond hair anxiously as he strode onstage. His face seemed ashen against the white-painted brick wall. "Unemployment is becoming a lot more popular these days," he began. "I read in the paper every morning that more and more people are getting into it."
He paused, then continued. "I finally hit the last resort of the jobless. Last week I went up to New Hampshire and registered as a candidate for the Democratic primary."
Mr. Eastman took a bow and sauntered offstage, grinning broadly. "When I worked in the book industry, I always tried to get my hands on humorous material," he said afterward. "I thought this would be a great chance to try what I've learned."
"Funniest Unemployed" grew out of a series of occupational contests staged by Ms. Berger, including "Funniest Accountant," "Funniest Stockbroker" and "Funniest Advertising Person." Even the professional comedians who perform at Stand-Up New York often take business as their theme. One program -- "What's So Funny About Donald Trump?" -- was devoted entirely to jokes about the real-estate developer.
The third contestant, a former reporter for out-of-state newspapers, adopted the stage name Norman K. for the occasion and donned blue jeans and a tweed sportcoat. "I may be unemployed, but I still have a schedule," he announced. "Mornings I reserve for game shows. Afternoons I reserve for talk shows."
Referring to a recent college reunion, Norman K. explained how he fielded queries about his professional life. "I told everyone I'm compiling a daily anthropological archive of American culture," he said. "That means I'm taping 'Geraldo.' "
Following Norman K., the talent went downhill. A former real estate broker's jokes about Robert Maxwell merited a couple of polite chuckles. An out-of-work television writer compared the recession to the Persian Gulf War. An unemployed art director lampooned the term "self-starter." ("If I get up before noon and make coffee and feed the cat, am I a self-starter?")
But the pain was short-lived: Ms. Berger gives each contestant exactly three minutes to run through his or her routine, and requires that material be recession-related. The five-member panel of judges grades performers on three criteria: delivery, originality and humor.
At 10 P.M., a young woman with short brown hair and a black leather motorcycle jacket took the microphone. "I'm Lisa Balch, I'm from Arkansas, and I've been unemployed for seven months now," she said, in a deep Southern accent.
Ms. Balch, a former sales manager for a Manhattan retail company, scored the evening's biggest laughs with a month-by-month account of her unemployment.
"The first month I slept late, watched the soaps and gloated when my friends complained about their jobs," she said. "The second month I did personal projects, like cleaning my closets. The third month I started getting bitter when my roomates came home and didn't notice that I'd showered."
By the fifth month, Ms. Balch said, she was taking phone messages for her roommates in calligraphy, or, time permitting, in needlepoint. By the seventh month, her imagination was running wild. "I pretended to an American Express representative that I was a bereaved relative of mine and that I'd been killed by the Mafia," she said.
When the votes were tallied, Ms. Balch was declared the winner. Norman K. was the first runner-up. Together, they posed for the television crews, waving and winking at their friends.
Yet the prizes aren't exactly the stuff of "Wheel of Fortune." The winner of each qualifying round (a third will be held in January, and then the finalists will face off in February) gets a Stand-Up New York T-shirt. The grand-prize-winner receives a free dinner at a Manhattan restaurant and a consultation with an outplacement expert on finding a job. In addition, he or she gets a set at Stand-Up New York -- a chance to perform alongside headliner comedians, for pay.
But unemployed professionals might not want to spend too much time practicing one-liners. Telling jokes is a "good release of tension," said Dee Soder, president of Endymion Company, a New York executive counseling firm. However, she points out, "Focusing on comedy may distract people from pursuing their career options."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: STAND UP NEW YORK (COMEDY CLUB)

ORGANIZATION: STAND UP NEW YORK (COMEDY CLUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HUMOR AND WIT; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET TOURNAMENTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); CHRISTMAS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BETTER, NANCY MARX JAY LENO (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1991



1003 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-7
U.N.'S NEW LEADER AND NEW HOPES
 Boutros Ghali of Egypt, about to take office as Secretary General of the United Nations, is eager to establish his credentials as a peacemaker. He will play a pivotal role in determining whether the organization lives up to raised expectations. Page A1
 
MEXICO RAISING ITS PROFILE IN U.S.
 Abandoning a history of diplomatic and public relations restraint, the Government of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari is trying to transform Mexico's political presence in the United States. A1
 
DOUBT ON QUICK SALVADORAN PACT
 Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar of the United Nations said mediators had effectively given up hopes of reaching a final settlement to El Salvador's civil war by the end of this year.A4
 
WHY MINSK? NO PLACE BETTER.
 Minsk is a gentle, long-suffering city, so the sudden occurrence of a bread panic made it seem a fitting headquarters for the fledgling Commonwealth of Independent States, whose leaders meet there today. A3
 
RUSSIA'S SHAPE GRIM, YELTSIN SAYS
 President Yeltsin acknowledged that Russians would be sorely tested as the state began to set the economy free. But he insisted in a televised address that life would be improving by the end of 1992. A3
Georgian troops drove rebels from the Parliament building. A3
 
SECULAR ALGERIANS URGE TURNOUT
 After Islamic fundamentalists won the first round of parliamentary elections, the Algerian Government, the press and secular political parties urged voters who abstained to vote in runoffs against turning the country into a religious state. A7
 
ISRAEL OFFERS MORE IMMIGRATION
 Israeli immigration officials said that if conditions deteriorate rapidly in the former Soviet Union, they are in a position to airlift as many as 100,000 Jews a month to Israel. A7
 
KHMER ROUGE CHIEF RETURNS
 The Khmer Rouge president, who was attacked by a mob in Phnom Penh a month ago, returned this morning under heavy military security for a third attempt to gather the Supreme National Council. A7
 
IRAN BLOCKS SWISS ENVOY'S EXIT
 Iran prevented a Swiss diplomat from leaving the country and restricted the movements of other Swiss envoys. Switzerland closed its embassy in Teheran in protest. A7
 
Calcutta Journal: Where taxis face the world's largest traffic jam. A2
 
National A10-13
 
CENTRAL FOCUS ON RACE
 For 30 years, Shaker Heights, Ohio, a Cleveland suburb, has made racial integration a crusade, treating it as a matter needing constant attention, prodding and pampering. A1
 
REDISTRICTING BATTLE
 After decades of complaining about being denied a fair share of Congressional seats by Democrats, Republicans may hold an early advantage in drawing district lines. A1
 
A QUICK POLITICAL COUP
 The City Council in Bell Gardens, Calif., passed an ordinance to control population density. Now most of its members are out of office after Hispanic residents led a campaign that resulted in their recall. A10
 
A DIMINISHING NEST EGG
 The plummeting of interest rates may be good news for borrowers, but not for retirees who had counted on income from investments to let them continue enjoying the good life. In retirement communities across Florida, the pinch is being felt. A10
 
MOSBACHER BASHES JAPAN
 Commerce Secretary Mosbacher became the first Administration official to say publicly that Japan was partly to blame for the lingering recession in the United States. D1
 
OREGON ATTACKS FRAUD
 While skyrocketing costs endanger workers' compensation insurance in many states, the SAIF Corporation of Salem, Ore., is a rare bird in the wilderness: a failing state-owned insurer that suddenly stopped its fall and rose to become a striking business success. D1
 
WILDER'S QUEST
 Despite disorganization in his Presidential campaign and weak fund raising, Gov. Wilder of Virginia remains optimistic because he sees the other candidates for the Democratic Party's nomination as less than overpowering. A12
For fifth consecutive year, a double-digit increase in health costs. A10
Number of farm owners fell to its lowest number in this century. A12
 
Metroplitan Digest, B1
 
SEEKING A CAUSE OF A STAMPEDE
 Inquiries begin into a nightmarish stampede at a City College gymnasium that left eight people dead -- buried, crushed and smothered to death -- at what was to have been a charity basketball game featuring celebrity rap stars. A1
 
CAUGHT IN A BOTTLENECK
 A 20-year-old college student who had narrowly escaped death last September was one of eight young people killed as they were trapped against the doors of the gymnasium at City College, lured to a rap-star-studded basketball game.A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C9-16
How arts group struggle and cope with recession. C9
Hollywood screenwriter, angry. C9
Theater: Theater in Review C14
Music: Music Notes C9
George Winston's new-age piano. C14
Word and Image: "The World Is My Home," by James A. Michener. C16
"Aspen," by Frederick Wiseman. C9
"Age 7 in the U.S.S.R." C16
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
Editorials A14
Reciprocity on arms. A14
Tonic for Commerce? A14
Solid choice for health. A14
Diane Camper: Refugees. A14
Letters A14
William Safire: Office Pool, 1992. A15
Sam Johnson and Chris Marcil: Crutch words. A15
Martha Brill Olcott: Central Asia or bust. A15
Flora Lewis: Russia in NATO, and other laughs. A15
 
Sports C1-8
Basketball: Sweet victory for Kentucky. C3
Big East preview. C4
Sealy studies his craft well. C4
Features: Sidelines. C2
Question Box. C2
Football: Oilers beat Jets, 17-10. C1
Cowboys hold off Bears, 17-13. C1
Georgia tops Arkansas. C5
Alabama flanker stars in Blockbuster. C5
Pressure on Moon isn't enough. C6
It won't be Tampa Bay for Parcells. C7
Hockey: Penguins beat Rangers, 6-3 C3
Capitals defeat Devils, 4-3 C3
Whalers top Islanders, 6-4 C3
Olympics: Sledders in disarray. C2
 
Obituaries B10
Lydia Ulana Savoyka, social worker who assisted immigrants

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALGERIA (92%); BELARUS (92%); EGYPT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); INDIA (57%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); SALINAS, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (55%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (55%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALGERIA (92%); BELARUS (92%); EGYPT (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); INDIA (57%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); SALINAS, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); FUNDAMENTALISM (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); CITIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); REDISTRICTING (60%); POPULATION DENSITY (60%); 

PERSON: JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR (57%); CARLOS SALINAS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1004 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 3165 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Act; A special report.;
One City's 30-Year Crusade for Integration

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHAKER HEIGHTS, Ohio

 BODY:
For 30 years now Shaker Heights, a suburban forest of Old World estates on the eastern border of Cleveland, has made racial integration something of a crusade. It has tried to hold the races together even as they appear alienated outside its borders.
The city has found that integration is not only difficult to begin but also difficult to maintain. If it is to occur at all, residents here say, it requires prodding and pampering and a kind of eternal vigilance and preoccupation with race. The city goes so far as to provide financial incentives to those who move into neighborhoods dominated by the other race. 
 In all the rituals and routines of daily life, it seems, Shaker Heights puts race front and center. The idea is that if left to their own devices, people will resegregate. So the city does not leave them to their own devices. Instead it treats integration like a patient on life support: No one dares pull the plug for fear the patient won't survive.
And so while most Americans bristle when the topic turns to racial tension, here people look you in the eye and relish the chance to talk about it. What has become a delicate and divisive subject most every place else is as ordinary as mowing the grass here.
It is in the public schools, which are considered among the most rigorous in the country, that Shaker Heights's relentless race consciousness is perhaps most on display, as educators try to work on the minds of the young.
Sixth graders are required to take racial sensitivity training, where they learn about such things as racial polarization and the dynamics of prejudice. An elective course on slavery and the Holocaust, called Oppression, is one of the best attended classes at the high school.
Race and questions of fairness and balance figure into the smallest decisions, from recruitment to the field hockey team to how many blacks are pictured in a yearbook layout.
There is open fretting about why there are not more blacks on the soccer team or more whites running track. There is great pride in the racial symmetry of the chess club and the a capella choir. And among city officials, there is careful attention to the racial turnout at public events like block parties.
 
'We Count. We're Aware.'
 "When someone comes back from a block party, we want to know how many people were there, how many blacks and how many whites?" said Donald L. DeMarco, the city's director of community services. "We count. We're aware. We don't pretend not to notice."
Still, for all this effort, there are still black sections and white sections of the city. Only three of the city's nine neighborhoods are truly racially mixed, with a black population close to the 30 percent level that characterizes Shaker Heights in general. Three are at least 90 percent white and are so expensive that they are likely to remain so for some time. Three are 50 percent or more black, and the city is willing to pay whites to move there.
And when forced by geography or circumstance, students tend to segregate themselves at lunchtime, adults tend to go their separate ways in their social lives, and the occasional racial epithet is shouted across a playground.
But with racial tensions erupting in places as disparate as Brooklyn and Dubuque, Iowa, and the growing use of appeals to racial fears in mainstream politics, determinedly integrated cities like Shaker Heights, Oak Park, Ill., and a half-dozen others stand as pockets that, while far from racial utopias, seem well ahead of the rest of the country.
"They are islands in a sea of racism," said Thomas F. Pettigrew, a professor of social psychology at both the University of California, Santa Cruz, and the University of Amsterdam, who is an expert on integration. "That they work at all is what is amazing about these cities. It is much harder to pull it off when the rest of the country is going in the opposite direction."
 
Balancing Housing
City Staves Off The Usual Flight
 Years ago a white Chicago alderman, fearing the arrival of blacks in his neighborhood, defined integration as the time between when the first black person moves in and the last white person moves out. Under that definition, many American communities have suffered a brief period of "integration," bitter for the new arrivals and the old-timers alike.
Shaker Heights has followed a different course. The city, once a thriving settlement of the religious sect it is named for, is an affluent bedroom community that, with its lakes, its own country club, is Cleveland's version of Scarsdale, N.Y. Its collection of homes ranges from artful two-flats disguised as single-family Tudors to pampered estates of lawyers, bankers and corporate executives. The community of 30,831 had a median family income of $55,747 in 1987, according to the city's Department of Community Services.
The first blacks, mostly doctors and dentists and their families, began moving into town in the late 1950's after restrictive housing covenants were declared illegal by the Supreme Court. Shaker Heights was a natural landing place for black Cleveland residents looking for their dream homes. It borders the Cleveland neighborhoods where most of the city's blacks are concentrated, is only a train stop or two from the old neighborhood, has snob appeal and a school system with a great reputation.
Out of a sense of enlightened self-interest, whites in Shaker Heights decided to make the best of it. They tried to figure out a way to prevent a white exodus, maintain property values and a create a stable, multiracial community. They tried to anticipate white racial fears and defuse them before a stampede could begin. One of the first steps was prohibiting, in 1964, the display of for-sale signs on front lawns to stave off panic selling.
 
No Doomsday
 The doomsday predictions of declining schools and property values have not materialized. Increases in property values have outpaced those in the rest of Cuyahoga County and school test scores exceed national averages, just as they did before the first black family moved in.
Shaker Heights manages its racial housing patterns the way companies manage inventory. It tries to stimulate demand where demand is weakest and discourage demand for what is scarce. Because integration is historically a harder sell to whites than to blacks and typically leads to white flight, integration management essentially means keeping white families in Shaker Heights.
"Unfortunately, you can't leave it to market forces," said Stephen J. Alfred, the Mayor of Shaker Heights and an early leader in the integration plan. "Whites can move anywhere they can afford. The number of whites who want to move into a mostly black neighborhood is small. You have to go out and find them. Meanwhile you've got co-workers and grandparents saying, 'Don't do it.' "
 
A System of Rewards
 To get people to swim upstream, the city rewards blacks and whites who move where the city wants them. It is a much-debated form of social engineering that for five years has given low-cost loans to members of either group if they move into neighborhoods where they are underrepresented.
Whites get help with their mortgages if they move into a neighborhood that is 50 percent or more black. Blacks get help if they move into a neighborhood that is 90 percent or more white. The loans are typically $3,000 to $6,000, based on how segregated the neighborhood is, and are paid in a lump sum toward the downpayment or in monthly installments toward the house note. The city grants about 25 loans a year from a $390,000 fund financed by private donations.
Economics limits the program's reach. The white neighborhoods are the leafy mansion districts surrounding the country club, where few blacks can afford to move anyway. The neighborhoods where whites are encouraged to move have the city's most affordable housing, the smaller Tudors and Georgians. So 90 percent of the loans go to whites.
But because many blacks want to move to Shaker Heights, the city tries to direct them elsewhere when it can. So, along with several adjacent suburbs that have significant black populations, it funnels similar loans to blacks if they agree, and are financially able, to move to a virtually all-white suburb. The designated white suburbs, known collectively as the Hillcrest area, neither contribute to the loan program nor advocate it.
"In terms of creativity and ingenuity, it represents a sharp break from past thinking," said Marc Zegans, research director for Innovations in State and Local Government, a joint program of the Kennedy School of Government and the Ford Foundation, which cited Shaker Heights in 1988 for its integration initiative.
"The fact that you put people of different races and ethnic groups together doesn't mean that everyone is going to be comfortable," Mr. Zegans said. "Integration needs to be managed until we have a society that accepts it as the norm."
 
Criticism for Payments
 The idea of rewarding whites to move in and blacks to move somewhere else is the cost of maintaining integration, say city officials and residents, black and white.
But some black residents see it as degrading approach that only reinforces white fear of integration. "When a city will pay to get blacks to move to another community, it sends a powerful message," said Sheila Kelly, a black real estate agent and a longtime Shaker Heights resident. "They will do anything to get white people here. The city is bribing them to live next to blacks."
But the program can actually raise suspicions among potential white homebuyers. Last February, John and Sally Ziemak found the perfect three-bedroom colonial in the Lomond district, a middle-class section that is evenly split between blacks and whites.
Then they heard that the city would give them a loan just for moving there. "We thought, 'Did things really get that bad?' " Mr. Ziemak, a management consultant, said. "Do they need to save the neighborhood?' Growing up in an all-white neighborhood, you have some second thoughts about it. You only know what you see on T.V."
They bought the house anyway -- the neighborhood was charming and safe, they loved the house and the deal was a good one, $100 a month toward their house note for three years. They moved in last May. And even though the Ziemaks get along fine with their black neighbors, the couple said integration was secondary to getting a good education for their two pre-school-age boys.
"The decision was more with our brain than with our gut," Mr. Ziemak said.
 
Apart by Geography
 There are geographic divisions here that feed social separation. Most blacks live south of the primary dividing line, Van Aken Boulevard. Used-car dealerships and empty storefronts dominate the business district in the almost all-black section of Moreland, while boutiques and antique shops are clustered on the mostly white north side.
The city hierarchy is itself predominantly white. There has never been a black mayor, and currently the superintendant of schools, the vast majority of teachers and all but one of the seven City Council members are white. And only one black leads a city agency.
"It's working, but compared to what?" asked Dr. Winston Richie, a retired dentist, who was one of the first blacks to move to Shaker Heights and who was the first black elected to the City Council. "We're three-fourths of the way there. None of us know how to do this stuff. We haven't done it enough. Only if some of us put ourselves in awkward situations until we feel comfortable will any of this change."
 
Emphasizing Schools
By the Numbers, Classes Are Mixed
 It is in the middle of this moral hand-wringing that Shaker Heights is watching a second generation of children raised on a diet of racial diversity.
The first generation, the children of people like Dr. Richie and Mayor Alfred, grew up in the days of proselytizing about the beauty of integration. Blacks were a novelty and it was fashionable for whites to get to know them. Black children were on the top of the A-list for birthday parties and got first pick for the softball team in what some sociologists call the pet phenomenon.
"Everybody wanted the black experience, and we were the ones who could provide it," Dr. Richie said. "My daughters had more invitations to sleepovers than they could fit on their calendars."
Now the novelty has worn off, and the city has had to get down to the business of insuring peaceful coexistence. Because many of the city's residents live in neighborhoods that are dominated by one race or the other, Shaker Heights is at its most integrated when the children go to school. So it is the public schools that become perhaps the best testing ground for integration.
 
Division Remains
 Slightly more than half the students are black, and some schools had become predominantly black or predominantly white until the city consolidated the system and redrew school boundaries in 1987. Less than three percent of the students are Asian, Hispanic or Indian.
Now each elementary school goes only to the fourth grade and takes in enough children from the nearest black neighborhoods and enough from the nearest white neighborhoods to get an enrollment that is 50-50. The racial balance issue is moot for the other grades because there is one school for all the city's fifth and sixth graders, a middle school for all seventh and eigth graders and the single high school.
But even though the students are in the same building, the high school in particular is more like two schools in one. Advanced placement and honors classes are overwhelmingly white. Regular college preparatory classes are overwhelmingly black.
White students in Yale and Dartmouth sweatshirts walk the hallways with whites to their honors classes and black students in Howard and Spelman sweatshirts walk with blacks to their classes.
 
Separation at Lunch
 In the cafeteria, with only a few exceptions, blacks sit with blacks and whites with whites. They are generally segregated by sex as well. There is no pushing, no shoving, rarely a cross word or rolling of eyes, just peaceful, mutual, voluntary segregation.
"You don't have a choice in the classroom," said Kirk Nims, a black sophomore, sitting over a plate of french fries with his friends. "You eat lunch with who your buddies are."
The students say they have nothing against any other group and have friends of other races who they have known since elementary school. They say that they know they should not segregate themselves, but that once you get to high school, the rules seem to change.
"There's a lot of pressure," said Bill Kuendig, a freshman, who follows the script, too, and sits with other whites at lunch. "If you sit with blacks, your friends would say, "Why are you hanging out with those other people?' I know it's not good. But people tend to go where they're comfortable."
 
Opening Minds
Fight Against Bias Is Continuing
 In Terrence Pollack's Oppression class at the high school the other day, the subject was ethnic stereotypes. Hands shot up as the students fired off examples of one group known for large noses, another for being nerdy, another for having rhythm.
"What is the danger of what you are saying?" Mr. Pollack asked the students, as he began to dissect the stereotypes by tracing their history. "Think about the origins. People take generalities and use them to create divisions and to maintain and perpetuate hatred."
Neither city officials nor Mr. Pollack claim to be able to change minds and hearts, only to open them. "We're not attempting to end prejudice, but to make them more sensitive before they discriminate, to make them more open and tolerant."
There are tests of this kind of awareness inside the classroom and out, like the minor crisis in the yearbook office the other day. The student editors of the predominantly white staff were arranging a final page in the junior section of the yearbook when one of them, Tali Lando, noticed that there were no blacks in the layout.
"We've got too many white people on this page," she said. "You can't have a page with no black people."
"But we don't have any good pictures of them," said Heidi Jacobson, another editor. "We have so many good pictures of white people that we already aren't using. I think we should use the best picture we have."
In that moment, the yearbook staff was doing the balancing act that Shaker Heights itself has come to represent.
"We think about it all the time," Tali said. "That's all we do. Every picture we get we have to think, 'Who do we need? Which group are we not representing?' We try to make sure there is a picture of every kind of person."
 
Not All Success
 Sometimes the lessons do not take. Racial slurs crept into a conversation the other day when Dan Babbitt, a white senior at the high school, was hanging out with his white friends. He said he never expected that from them.
"They seem like nice people," he said. "But you take them out of school and see another side to them. I don't know how to react. If this is happening in Shaker Heights, what's happening in the rest of the country?"
Blacks say that Shaker Heights is not yet a racial promised land and that they face prejudice from counselors who they say steer black students into less rigorous classes, from teachers with low expectations and from children trying out a new racial epithet.
Christopher Washington, the 8-year-old son of a two black doctors, said he thought he was "back in the 1970's" when a teammate on his virtually all-white ice hockey team singled him out and called him "black boy."
"I felt bad," Christopher said. "I told them that's not nice. They're not my friends."
The coach, Carlton Strang, later called a huddle and told the boys: "We all have differences. But as a team there are no differences."
 
Messages From Elders
 The mixed messages, many residents say, often come from the parents, most of whom grew up in segregated worlds and still lapse into segregated bridge clubs and dinner parties. "They want integration for their kids, but they don't think of it for themselves," Dr. Richie said.
Indeed, many children are ahead of the parents because integration is all they know. Heather Taylor, a black seventh grader, is planning her 13th birthday party, a sleepover, next month. She already knows she will invite some of her black friends from school, a few white friends from ballet class, a few from figure skating, and the girl whose bas mitzvah she is going to. "It will be half and half," Heather said.
While this may be easy for her, for others counting may be the only way to insure racial balance until the day when such things come naturally, sociologists say. "Color blindness would be great in the 22d century," Dr. Pettigrew said. "Right now we're still evolving from the sins of the American past."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We're three-fourths of the way there," said Dr. Winston Richie, left at rear, of the efforts made by Shaker Heights, Ohio, to begin integration and maintain it. Dr. Richie, the first black elected to the city council, walked with his wife, Bea, and his neighbors Terry and Hilde Clark.; Blacks say that Shaker Heights is not yet a racial promised land. Christopher Washington, right, said he was singled out by a teammate on his virtually all-white hockey team and called "black boy." His coach, Carlton Strang, showed Christopher and his teammates some moves during a recent practice. (pg. A11) (Photographs by Barney Taxel for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: Show percentages of black people in Shaker Heights, Ohio in 1960, 1970, 1980 and 1990. (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. A1)
 
Chart: "House Price Tags" shows median prices of single-family houses in Shaker Heights and all suburbs of Cuyahoga County from 1964-1990. (Housing Research Program, Cleveland State University) (pg. A11)
 
Diagram: "The Neighborhood Racial Breakdown" shows the racial composition of neighborhoods in Shaker Heights, Ohio. (Source: Shaker Heights Department of Community Services) (pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SHAKER HEIGHTS (OHIO) UNITED STATES (95%); OHIO, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); SURVEYS AND SERIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES RACE & RACISM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); SOCCER (62%); FIELD HOCKEY (50%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1005 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2086 words

HEADLINE: New U.N. Leader Is Taking Over At a Time of Great Expectations

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Successful mediation in trouble spots around the world and the fading of the cold war have raised expectations that the United Nations may finally fulfill its lofty goals, helping to defuse threats to peace and security and offering a forum for addressing problems that no country can solve alone.
As the sixth Secretary General of the United Nations, Boutros Ghali, a 69-year-old Egyptian diplomat, will play a pivotal role in determining whether the organization lives up to these rejuvenated hopes over the next five years. Mr. Ghali, who is also a lawyer and a former Deputy Prime Minister, will assume the leadership of the United Nations on Jan. 1. 
 Although Mr. Ghali is not yet giving interviews, he tells associates that his immediate goal is to push through a radical restructuring of the United Nations bureaucracy in 60 days, along the lines of proposals advanced by a group of 20 nations and strongly supported by the United States.
 
Seeking a Role as Peacemaker
 He also wants to establish his credentials quickly as a peacemaker. Mr. Ghali has said he will ask the Security Council to help end the civil war in Somalia, which is sinking deeper each week into anarchy. He also expects the United Nations to take a wider role in encouraging democracy by helping to organize and monitor elections in developing nations.
Most diplomats agree that Mr. Ghali is taking over at a critical moment, and that the United Nations faces an extraordinary opportunity to shape a new international system to replace the configuration wrought by the cold war.
Yet the main question being asked about Mr. Ghali is whether he has the dynamism and forcefulness to seize all that may lie within his grasp as the world order changes.
 
'The Opportunity Is There'
 "The opportunity is there to push the organization's authority forward," said Sir Brian Urquhart, a former Under Secretary General in charge of peacekeeping who is now a scholar in residence at the Ford Foundation. "But does he have the nerve, the habit of authority, to exploit his chances?"
"There is an embarrassment of possibilities before him at the moment. He must clearly define his priorities and go after them," said Edward C. Luck, head of the United Nations Association.
A member of one of Egypt's most affluent and politically active Christian Coptic families, Mr. Ghali counts a prime minister as grandfather and a finance minister as his father. Fluent in English, Arabic and French and known for his ironic wit, he represents an intellectual, cosmopolitan class that was prominent in Egypt between the world wars and was immortalized in the four novels that make up Lawrence Durrell's "Alexandria Quartet."
Indeed, some say he was the model for Nessim Hosnani, the powerful Coptic financier who plays a central role in the story.
To be sure, doubts have been raised about previous secretaries general, most of whom took up the job with less experience of high office and intricate diplomacy than Mr. Ghali. The second-guessing is not surprising, because secretaries general are invariably compromise candidates who win election by gaining the support of different interest groups.
The departing Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, leaves office this week with a highly successful record, though he was a relatively obscure Peruvian diplomat at the United Nations when he was chosen in 1981. His nomination stirred the same kinds of early doubts now expressed about Mr. Ghali.
 
Risky Exercises In Security
 Formidable challenges await Mr. Ghali, who is taking over just as the United Nations plans new and risky peacekeeping exercises in the Western Sahara, Yugoslavia and Cambodia. The organization has begun nine such operations since 1988, compared with 13 in the previous 43 years.
Many hope Mr. Ghali can capitalize on this expansion in peacekeeping and on the Security Council's rapid reprisals for Iraq's invasion of Kuwait to develop the kind of collective security arrangements that the United Nations' founding fathers envisaged.
The United Nations is also getting more involved in the politically sensitive business of setting standards for its members in fields like human rights, democracy and environmental protection.
Mr. Ghali will appoint a new disaster-relief coordinator this year with unparalleled powers to intervene in emergencies around the world. And he must help organize the most concerted effort to date to legislate against threats to global temperatures, an environmental meeting scheduled this summer in Rio de Janeiro.
 
The Job Is Changing As He Takes Over
 In the cold war days, the big powers often left it to the Secretary General to act as mediator so they could avoid being drawn into a confrontation. But Mr. Ghali has a reinvigorated, less confrontational Security Council that views its responsibilities differently.
"As the cold war was responsible for much of the enlargement of the role of Secretary General, so its termination might produce some shrinkage in that role, even if it also makes the United Nations more useful," said Innis L. Claude, an expert on the United Nations at the University of Virginia, in a new study.
But the new Secretary General must also face the fact that with a top-heavy bureaucracy and members that refuse to pay their dues, the United Nations is ill-equipped to make the most of its opportunities.
Mr. Ghali starts out with the advantage of being a leading choice of both the Security Council and the General Assembly, in marked contrast to the last election, in 1981, when a bitter fight over Kurt Waldheim's decision to seek a third term ended with the surprise selection of Mr. Perez de Cuellar.
As one of the candidates nominated by the Organization for African Unity, Mr. Ghali can also expect cooperation from the 51-nation African bloc in the General Assembly.
But appearances are deceptive. Three permanent Council members -- the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union -- were initially unenthusiastic about Mr. Ghali. They argued that that he did not have enough political stature, and that at 69 he was too old for the job. They also disputed the assertion by African diplomats that Africa had the right to provide the next Secretary General.
There is still an undercurrent of resentment among some diplomats from sub-Saharan African countries, who note that the Security Council chose the only light-skinned "Arab-African" on their list of candidates. Arab diplomats appear to be delighted; Mr. Ghali will be the first Arab secretary general.
 
Pressure to Trim The Secretariat
 The new Secretary General's enthusiasm for administrative reform reflects pressure from a group of 20 industrialized and developing countries -- including India, Nigeria, Indonesia and Mexico as well as the United States, France and Britain -- to adopt a plan for overhauling the Secretariat.
Under the current system, more than 30 top officials report directly to the Secretary General from jealously guarded bureaucratic fiefs responsible for areas ranging from arms control to deep-sea mining. The arrangement developed largely in response to pressure from member governments for plum positions for their citizens.
The plan is to slim down this structure, giving responsibility for day-to-day management to just four or five Under Secretaries General working directly under the Secretary General. This would free Mr. Ghali to concentrate on diplomacy and peacemaking.
Such a reorganization of top echelons would complement the 14 percent reduction in staff that was undertaken by the United Nations at Washington's insistence in 1987. The United Nations has already introduced a budget process that gives the United States a veto over any spending, a move that has since allowed Washington to freeze the organization's budget in real terms.
The restructuring does not address other demands for change, like reducing the General Assembly's 150-item agenda, pruning bodies that no longer have a function, like the Trusteeship Council, and ending fruitless debates on certain economic and social issues.
Mr. Ghali played a critical role on Egypt's team during the negotiations that produced the Camp David peace accords, and diplomats have said that the Israelis expressed admiration for his skills. His experience leads many to believe that he is well-qualified to expand the Secretary General's role as a mediator, though in closer cooperation with the Security Council than in the past.
What remains to be decided is whether he should be given additional peacemaking tools, as various nations and experts have proposed.
Thomas M. Franck, a professor of international law at New York University, has suggested that the United Nations sharply increase the Secretary General's ability to intervene in crises by freeing him from many ceremonial duties and giving him a $40 million mediation fund that would enable him to send investigative teams and observers to areas of tension.
Sir Brian, the former Under Secretary General, favors asking countries to designate troops that would be on call for enforcement activities under Article 43 of the United Nations Charter. Under his proposal, the Security Council would create a "rapid intervention force" that could be sent into countries where law and order have completely broken down, like Somalia, or to tense regions before fighting breaks out.
 
With Dues Unpaid, Plans Are Academic
 But all plans to make the United Nations more effective will come to nothing unless the new Secretary General can persuade governments to pay their dues promptly and in full.
Of the United Nations' 166 member states, 102 have failed to pay their dues in full, leaving the organization with a cumulative shortfall in funding of almost $1 billion.
The United States is still the biggest single debtor, owing $344 million toward the regular budget and another $140 million toward the cost of peacekeeping operations. Although the Reagan Administration encouraged Congress to withhold funding from the United Nations in the 1980's to force some reforms, President Bush now favors full funding and paying off back dues. But with the current strains on its federal budget, Washington has fallen behind again in finding the money.
 
Security Council Faces a Realignment
 The new Secretary General will be working with a Security Council that is likely to be more cooperative toward the United States and other Western members. On Jan. 1, Cuba and Yemen end their two-year terms in rotating seats and will be replaced by Venezuela and Japan.
As a result, the number of Security Council members from the movement of countries espousing "nonalignment" will fall from 7 to 6. And with 9 votes needed to approve a decision by the 15-member Council, the nonaligned will no longer be able to block actions by voting together.
In the longer term, the Council will face pressure to increase its size by naming more permanent members. The five permanent seats are held by the United States, Britain, France, China and now, Russia, which is inheriting the Soviet Union's seat.
Japan and Germany, citing their role as economic superpowers, both want a permanent voice in Council deliberations. A much-discussed proposal would involve changing the United Nations Charter to merge the British and French seats into a single "European" seat representing the 12 European Community countries, which are committed to a joint foreign policy, and thereby answer Germany's concerns.
Japan and several populous developing countries like India, Nigeria and Brazil might then be offered new permanent seats, but without the veto rights of other permanent members.
But the United States, Britain and France, which have a veto over changes in the Charter, oppose any such amendments, saying they see no need to tinker with machinery that is finally working.
So far, Mr. Ghali seems as relaxed about the challenges he faces as the next Secretary General as he once did about his chances of getting the job.
At a lunch in Paris before his election, he told associates he was already "two-thirds" confident of victory, predicting that the Soviet Union, China and France would support him and saying he doubted that the United States or Britain would veto his candidacy.
He also predicted that he would be able to leave his mark on the United Nations because of what he called "my greatest strength -- the fact that I am not looking for re-election."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boutros Ghali (pg. A1); Boutros Ghali of Egypt, right, being congratulated earlier this month after being sworn in as Secretary General of the United Nations. Next to him was Ali Teymour, the U.N. chief of protocol. (pg. A6) (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Chart: "U.N. Secretaries General"
 
SECRETARY GENERAL: Trygve Lie
COUNTRY: Norway
TERM: '46-'53 (Resigned)
 
SECRETARY GENERAL: Dag Hammarskjold
COUNTRY: Sweden
TERM: '53-'61 (Died)
 
SECRETARY GENERAL: U Thant
COUNTRY: Burma
TERM: '61-'71 (Term expired)
 
SECRETARY GENERAL: Kurt Waldheim
COUNTRY: Austria
TERM: '72-'81 (Term expired)
 
SECRETARY GENERAL: Javier Perez de Cuellar
COUNTRY: Peru
TERM: '82-'91 (Term expired)
 
(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); ELECTION MONITORING (51%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; GHALI, BOUTROS BOUTROS BOUTROS GHALI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1006 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Is Trying Hard to Lift Its Political Profile in the U.S.

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
When Carlos Salinas de Gortari went to the United States recently, he did the sort of things that Mexican presidents have usually done on such visits. He had breakfast with Henry A. Kissinger. He had lunch with business leaders in New York. And he met with President Bush.
But Mr. Salinas also did things in connection with this trip that no Mexican President had done before -- like visiting with the president of the Mexican Soccer League of New Rochelle, N.Y., sending lobbyists all over Capitol Hill, and giving an award to a Mexican-American human rights advocate who has criticized the pace of Mr. Salinas's political reforms. 
 Abandoning a history of diplomatic and public relations restraint, Mr. Salinas's Government has carried out a systematic effort to transform Mexico's political presence in the United States.
 
Ambitious New Embassy
 In Washington, where Mexico kept a low profile for years, in part to discourage American interference in its affairs, an elegant new Mexican Embassy brims with ambitions to join the city's most influential foreign missions. The traditional handful of quiet diplomats has given way to an army of expensive lobbyists, an office full of trade representatives and a more specialized diplomatic staff that has more than doubled since Mr. Salinas took office in 1988.
In places like Tulsa, Okla., and Plattsburgh, N.Y., officers from Mexico's 40 consulates in the United States have become almost familiar visitors. Where a college or Rotary Club will listen, they extol the virtues of the free trade agreement Mexico is negotiating with the United States and Canada, trying to draw a portrait of a vibrant, sophisticated neighbor eager for closer ties.
And from the Southwest to Chicago and New York, Mexican officials have worked intensely to reverse the antagonism and mistrust that have long characterized the Government's relations with Mexican immigrants to the United States and their descendants. While the Salinas administration has had only limited success so far in drawing Hispanic political groups behind its campaign for free trade, officials hereare suggesting that Mexican-Americans could become a better source of political support for Mexico in the United States.
"The model in that sense has been Israel," a senior aide to Mr. Salinas said. "I don't think that kind of lobby is realistic for us, but I think it is very possible to aspire to a cohesive relationship, a relationship that is mutually beneficial."
It has been Mexico's quest for a North American Free Trade Agreement, more than anything else, that has dictated its new, more vigorous approach to American politics. But in trying to win over many of the American special-interest groups that have opposed a trade pact, the two Governments have also involved more new players in the relationship than either of them might have chosen.
 
Rising Influence
 The Bush Administration finally won permission to negotiate a treaty that Congress could not amend after promising last spring to address concerns about the expected effects of the plan to establish a continental free trade zone. Since then, American labor, environmental and human rights groups, which the Mexican Government used to ignore, have watched their influence in Mexico rise sharply. And while Mexican officials insist that their responsiveness to foreign criticism has been only a matter of publicizing measures they intended to take by themselves, they have to various degrees acknowledged the pressure of foreign advocates in a series of recent actions.
After Mexico's opposition parties charged fraud and foreign critics echoed them, Mr. Salinas in effect annulled two important state elections his party had won. With environmentalists complaining that free trade would make Mexico a haven for American companies seeking to escape United States pollution-control standards, he pledged $460 million to protect the border environment.
When two prominent international human rights groups assailed the prevalence of police torture in Mexico, Mr. Salinas's Attorney General all but thanked them for looking into it. And just before flying to New York, Mr. Salinas met the criticism of American environmentalists with a bill to impose prison terms on those who "intentionally" kill dolphins, sea turtles and other protected marine species.
"The effectiveness of pressures from the United States has become immense," said Adolfo Aguilar Zinser, a Mexican political scientist and a critic of the Government who has been active in the nascent alliances of Mexican, United States and Canadian groups focused on the free trade negotiation.
 
Unknown Results
 For all its intensity, the results of Mexico's new approach to American politics remain to be seen.
After hundreds of conversations with members of Congress and their constituents, Mexican officials still found their hopes for achieving a free trade accord next year to be at the mercy of political forces beyond their influence when Mr. Salinas met with Mr. Bush on Dec. 14. With the United States economy still weak, labor opposition to a trade pact is strong, and with the Presidential primaries only a few months away, Mr. Bush agreed only to try to conclude a trade agreement "as soon as possible."
Since the early days of the free trade debate, the Salinas Government has treated the accord almost less as a mechanism to dismantle tariff barriers than as a means to convey new images of Mexico abroad.
To business executives for whom Mexico evokes thoughts of corruption and state control, the agreement offers a guarantee that the sweeping economic liberalization undertaken by Mr. Salinas will continue after he leaves power. More widely, the Government has sought to expunge old stereotypes of men drinking tequila and sleeping under big hats, offering instead visions of an ancient culture, skilled economic managers and a more forthright political leadership.
The message of a new Mexico has been delivered with particular insistence in Washington.
 
Embassy Doubles in Size
 Under Gustavo Petricioli, the Yale-educated former Finance Minister whom Mr. Salinas named Ambassador to the United States, the Embassy in Wahsington has roughly doubled in size. The number of press attaches and liaisons to Congress has grown even more quickly, and the new embassy is a gleaming structure that occupants invariably describe as being "just down Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House."
At the strong recommendation of Canadian officials, Mexico also began spending millions of dollars to hire many of Washington's best-known trade lobbyists, including Charls E. Walker, Robert Herzstein and at least two former top aides to Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee.
 
Visiting Several U.S. Cities
 But it has not simply been a matter of Mr. Salinas's going to Washington, although the Mexican leader has now met with Mr. Bush eight times in three years. In April, Mr. Salinas visited six other American cities, sweeping through Texas and speaking Spanish to Mexican-Americans in Chicago. And in New York, San Antonio and Los Angeles, where he has inaugurated each stop of an art exhibit, "Mexico: Splendors of 30 Centuries," the Government has choreographed celebrations as rich in subtle politics as in art.
Ambassador Petricioli, breaking from a tradition of men who rarely ventured farther south or west than the State Department, has ranged as far as Alaska to tell Americans they could play a pivotal role in free trade, and consular officials have traveled around the country giving similar speeches.
Across the Southwest, the governing party's politicians have been sent as consuls. Their mission, officials said, has been to oversee the public-relations offensive and to improve relations with local Mexican-Americans.
 
Mexican-Americans Undecided
 In telephone interviews, officials of several Mexican-American political groups said they had yet to make up their minds about whether or how actively they would back the campaign for free trade. It seemed at least a small measure of Mexican Government success, however, that Mr. Bush has singled out Hispanic-American support for free trade in recent comments defending the idea.
If anything, Mexican-American officials seemed more convinced that the Salinas Administration was looking at the United States -- and its citizens of Mexican descent -- quite differently.
"They've come to understand that we are Americans first, of Mexican descent -- that we care about democracy and that at times we're very critical of the lack of political openness there," said Antonia Hernandez, president of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund in Los Angeles.
"A relationship as complex as this one is going to have to develop over time," she added. "But they are beginning to see that it might be in their self-interest to better understand us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Government of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico has carried out a systematic effort to transform Mexico's political presence in the United States. (Reuters) (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); SOCCER (56%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1007 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Neediest Cases Donors Reflect on '91

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
In the big picture, 1991 may well be remembered as the year the Soviet Union dissolved and the Persian Gulf war was won. But for donors to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund the year was highlighted by personal experiences that brought joy, sorrow, anxiety and the compassion to give to those less fortunate.
"As 1991 closes so too do the doors of adversity open and close," wrote Harriet and Stan Hendel of Highland Mills, N.Y., who gave $25. "For the hostages now free the hard times are a memory. For those who serve the neediest of New York City, the difficult hours are ahead." 
 Ellie and Jerry Spielman of Somerset, N.J., said it "hasn't been a great year." In a note attached to their $25 donation they explained that "like most families we feel the results of the economy but in many respects we are so fortunate. Our first grandchild, a little girl, was born this year."
 
'A Duty to Help Others'
 For several contributors, the year was marked by tragedy. "1991 has been a very difficult year for me, culminating in the death just before Thanksgiving of my much beloved father," wrote a Manhattan woman, who gave $25. "Throughout the year I have received a great deal of support from friends and colleagues at work. I hope this contribution will be used to brighten the holiday of someone who has not had the parental love and collegial friendship I have known."
For others, 1991 is closing on a high note. "I have finally landed an interesting job in a tough market," wrote Mary Numata of Manhattan, who gave $25. "I realize that there are many people who will never be as lucky as I've been. I believe those of us whom fortune has favored do have a duty to help others."
 
Moved by Weak Economy
 Since it was founded in 1912 by Adolph S. Ochs, who was then the publisher of The New York Times, the Neediest Cases has enabled millions of people -- through two World Wars, through the Roaring 20's and the Great Depression, and through the booming 80's and the slumping 90's -- to lend a helping hand to New York's sick, poor and disabled. Last year at least 15,580 individuals and organizations contributed $4.4 million to the Neediest Cases.
The Times covers all of the campaign's overhead so that every dollar collected is passed on to the seven charities. The money buys food for the hungry, homes for the homeless, and clothing for those without. It also helps provide holiday gifts for the city's poorest children.
Several contributors, like Peter and Bernice Landis of Montclair, N.J., said the declining economy prompted them to give their first donations to the Neediest Cases. "As 1991 nears its end, our family is giving thanks for a better year than we had expected while many families are suffering through far worse years than they can remember," they wrote in a letter attached to a $100 donation.
"It is heart-wrenching to read the news stories about the people who are hurting but heart-warming to to read about the people who are trying to ease the pain through their gifts," the couple wrote. "And becoming part of the gift-giving involves a certain selfishness. We admit we feel a lot better about ourselves."
 
Previously recorded . . . $2,517,669.99
Recorded yesterday . . . $24,547.48
 
Total . . . $2,542,217.47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND DESERT STORM (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); FAMILY (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); THANKSGIVING (66%); CHILD POVERTY (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1008 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
The Industry's Year of Exceptional Turbulence

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
In a tumultuous 12 months during which more large accounts and leading executives moved elsewhere than ever before, how well change was managed said a lot about how the year went.
Every year in advertising has peaks and valleys. But 1991 was unusually intense, the swings magnified by the nation's economic slump. Lost accounts were not easily replaced; new business produced a prosperity that contrasted sharply with the industry's pervasive gloom. 
 Here is a look back at some people and agencies involved in big changes:

 Gordon Bowen: The executive creative director at Ogilvy & Mather New York was to advertising what Mario Cuomo was to politics. After weeks of widely watched pondering, and not a few comparisons to Hamlet, Mr. Bowen decided to accept an offer from McCann-Erickson to work on its flagship Coca-Cola account. His switch from Ogilvy, where he was a key executive on the prestigious American Express account, resonated beyond those agencies. He typified all the top creative talents who, after assiduous courtships, changed addresses.
Among the others were Marty Cooke, who left Chiat/Day/Mojo Inc. for Frankfurt Gips Balkind; Cary Lemkowitz and Eric Weber, who left Young & Rubicam New York for, respectively, Bergelt Litchfield Inc. and Foote, Cone & Belding, and Nina Di Sesa, who left McCann for J. Walter Thompson Chicago. Will they meet the high expectations of their new employers, who are paying them high salaries?

 The Leo Burnett Company: A series of account victories -- among them, Miller Lite beer and the Sony Corporation of America -- brought in about $225 million in new billings, by far the most won by any agency.
Despite that, spending cutbacks by current clients kept total domestic billings flat. Burnett will be "tightening its belt" in 1992, Richard B. Fizdale, the incoming chairman and chief executive, has told employees.

 Chiat/Day/Mojo: Like one of the bungee jumpers in a television commercial for Reebok International Ltd., the agency has snapped back: more than $100 million in new billings has reversed a string of account losses. A daunting achievement in any year, it was particularly impressive in 1991.
Chiat also benefited from executive mobility when Joel Babbit, president of Babbit & Reiman Advertising Inc., joined as executive vice president and general manager in New York.

 Della Femina, McNamee Inc.: A string of account losses, as well as the end of Pan American World Airways, cost the agency a quarter of its billings, around $200 million. And its chairman, Jerry Della Femina, kept up a public feud with the agency's French parent, Euro RSCG. But ever-optimistic, the agency is aggressively pursuing new business and spirits seem high. Witness a holiday greeting that Louise McNamee, the agency's president, sent Mr. Della Femina, in a print advertisement for Cutty Sark Scotch. A tiny card visible in the ad read, "To Jerry Love, Louise."

 Robert L. Dilenschneider: The longtime public relations executive broke key rules in advertising by generating more attention for himself than for his clients. He was forced out as president and chief executive of Hill & Knowlton Inc. amid controversy over accounts like the Church of Scientology and reports of clashes with Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the agency's parent, the WPP Group P.L.C. of London.
Now, the man who once advocated "bigger is better" is changing courses, opening a small firm, the Dilenschneider Group, with offices in Manhattan and Chicago -- a far cry from Hill & Knowlton's 66 offices in 25 countries. Still, few executives would deny they continue to watch Mr. Dilenschneider.

 Goodby, Berlin & Silverstein: An upstart agency that more than doubled its billings, catapulting into the ranks of leading midsized agencies by landing accounts like the Carl's Jr. fast-food chain and American Isuzu Motors Inc. Now it faces the challenge of delivering on a promise of outstanding creative work. Industry executives are intensely curious about the agency's first Isuzu campaign, due in early March.

 Levine, Huntley, Schmidt & Bea ver: A midsized agency that built a reputation for sprightly, effective advertising for Subaru of America, Frito-Lay and others, it could not survive the loss of those two accounts.
Other accounts followed, as did the chief executive, Robert H. Schmidt, and the agency had no succession plan. While Edward H. Vick, the president and chief executive, and Rochelle Klein, senior vice president and executive creative director, were praised for their efforts to stem the collapse, the shop collapsed with a dizzying rapidity.

 John L. Mezzina and William G. Brown Jr.: Two months after leaving Young & Rubicam, where they worked on the Camel cigarette account, this pair shocked the industry when the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company awarded the creative portion of the $40 million account to Mezzina/Brown Inc.
Industry executives are wondering how they and about a dozen former Y. & R. colleagues who followed them to Mezzina/Brown will fare on their own, particularly as anti-smoking activists intensify attacks on Camel's "Smooth character" cartoon camel campaign.

 Ogilvy & Mather:  The WPP agency suffered one of its worst years ever. It lost several important assignments, like the creative portion of the American Express charge card account and the domestic portion of the Compaq Computer Corporation account. And several senior executives left, including Mr. Bowen; David Warden, who joined Mr. Bowen at McCann, and Parry Merkley, who joined Doremus & Company. And trade publications continue to report that clients like Sears, Roebuck & Company are looking elsewhere for ideas on special projects.
Ogilvy's top management is working strenuously to prevent the stream of losses from becoming a flood. Assisting those efforts was a decision by L.A. Gear Inc. to award the agency its $30 million account. An important test for the agency is its revamped advertising for an important remaining client, Hardee's Food Systems Inc., due in mid-January.

 Michael Ovitz: He is not an adman, nor does he work for an ad agency. Yet the Hollywood power broker turned the ad world topsy-turvy when Coca-Cola appointed Creative Artists Agency, the talent agency of which he is chairman, as its worldwide marketing and communications consultant.
Industry executives are hungry for clues as to what changes in Coke's advertising might be made by Mr. Ovitz and his team of 14 C.A.A. employees.

 James Tennant and Mark Wein stein: The pair, top executives at Foote, Cone & Belding Direct, took 18 colleagues with them -- and two clients -- to found their own breakaway shop. Foote, Cone sued, and six days later, T.W.O. Direct -- for the Tennant Weinstein Organization -- closed, victim of what Advertising Age called "a comedy of errors."
According to Foote, Cone's court papers, Mr. Tennant and Mr. Weinstein sought to be reimbursed for at least one dinner at which they recruited a Foote, Cone executive for T.W.O. Direct. Mr. Tennant, who was president of Foote, Cone Direct, returned, along with his 18 co-workers. But Mr. Weinstein, who had been Foote, Cone Direct's senior vice president and managing director, decided "to pursue other opportunities."

 Wieden & Kennedy: Lauded for its quirky campaigns for Nike Inc., the Portland, Ore., agency gained a second significant national account when it wrested Subaru from Levine, Huntley.
The victory gives Wieden a chance to dispel perceptions that its only skill is a talent to amuse while selling sneakers. Many executives have praised the agency's advertising for Subaru's 1992 models, carrying the theme, "What to drive," though they will be counting just how many cars Subaru can sell in the face of the automotive industry's severe slump.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Notable figures in the advertising business this year included, from the left in a montage, Jerry Della Femina and Louise McNamee, whose agency lost a quarter of its accounts; Edward H. Vick, whose agency collapsed because of lost accounts; Michael Ovitz, whose talent agency was hired to market Coca-Cola, and John L. Mezzina and William G. Brown Jr., whose agency snared the R. J. Reynolds account. (The New York Times (Vick, Mezzina and Brown) and Associated Press (Ovitz))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (64%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (64%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (64%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (55%); 

COMPANY: CHIAT/DAY/MOJO INC ADVERTISING (69%); JWT (67%); LEO BURNETT CO INC (66%); REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD (64%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); DRAFTFCB INC (55%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (55%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (54%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (51%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; AD INDUSTRY MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); BEER & ALE (64%); 

PERSON: MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1009 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Health Bill Expected to Rise By 11% for '91

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS

 BODY:
The Commerce Department plans to report today that it expects national spending on health to have increased 11 percent in 1991 over the previous year, the fifth consecutive year with a double-digit increase.
The report said spending on health care for 1991 was $738 billion, based on data collected for the first 11 months of 1991 and a projection for December. 
 The department also predicted that health care spending would be $817 billion in 1992 and that such expenditures would rise at an average annual rate of 12 percent to 13 percent over the next five years.
The figures appear in the Department's United States Industrial Outlook for 1992.
 
Costs Helps Fuel Rise
 Because of slow economic growth, the report projects, the proportion of the nation's total output of goods and services that is represented by health care will rise to a record 14 percent in 1992, slightly more than the 1991 level.
The rise in the costs of health care, which is largely responsible for the increase, is the subject of much concern nationally, and many proposals in Congress have been put forward to halt the increase and to extend health insurance to cover the 34 million people who are now believed to be without it.
The report cited several reasons for the rising spending, including the aging of the population, increases in doctors' fees, the high cost and increased use of high-tech equipment and the growth in the use of psychiatric care.
In addition, it noted, more than 600,000 jobs were created in doctors' offices and hospitals between 1988 and 1990, accounting for some of the increase.
But the report said one factor in the cost of health care had been falling: malpractice claims. The Commerce Department reported that the number of malpractice claims dropped steadily, to 8 claims for every 100 doctors in 1989, the last year for which data are available, from 17.8 claims in 1985.
In an analysis of the figures, a health advocacy group in Washington, Public Citizen Health Research Group, pointed to growth in employment as one of the most significant trends.
 
'Megatons of Paperwork'
 "It is likely that most of this increase is in administrative personnel needed to push the megatons of paperwork generated by having 1,500 different health insurers in this country," it said.
Regarding the causes for the rise in spending, Dr. James S. Todd, executive vice president of the American Medical Association, added to the list the cost of paperwork brought on by new regulations, the increased cost of labor and supplies and treatment of an increasing number of people who have little or no hope of recovery.
He acknowledged that doctors' fees had risen, but he argued that limiting doctors' charges would be "an arbitrary and unreasoning" way of dealing with costs. Other costs would be more sensible to control, he suggested.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); JOB CREATION (74%); AGING TRENDS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); INSURANCE (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1010 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Robert Mosbacher said Japan was partly to blame for the lingering U.S. recession, becoming the first Administration official to blame Japan publicly. The Commerce Secretary's comments are especially significant because he will head Mr. Bush's re-election campaign. [Page D1.]
SAIF is a rare bird in the wilderness of workers' compensation insurance: a failing state-owned insurer that suddenly stopped its fall and rose to become a striking business success. [D1.] 
 The sharp decline of interest rates has affected virtually all Americans in one way or another. But economists agree that the elderly, many of whom live on fixed incomes, have been made especially vulnerable. [A10.]
Orders rose for American-made machine tools in November, a trade association reported. [D2.]
 
COMPANIES
Wal-Mart now seems to be angling toward Safeway and Kroger in the grocery business, having overtaken K Mart and Sears in retailing. The company has acquired a small Arkansas grocery chain and is expanding its Super Center stores, which devote half of their space to groceries. Potential rivals fear it will use its clout with suppliers to demand price breaks. [D1.]
G.M.'s latest experimental vehicle has a body of carbon fiber, like many race cars, making it extremely light. [D2.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
This was a year when the biggest thing on television was the stuff of real life. [D6.]
If it's the end of the year, those must be special year-end issues of magazines on the newsstand. [D6.]
Edward L. Bernays recently turned 100, giving him the most protracted view of public relations, a discipline he is credited with creating. He is not happy with the field now. [D6.]
The newspaper industry may be united in grappling with a steep decline in advertising, but there is no unanimity about what will happen when the economy recovers. Alex S. Jones: Press. [D6.]
The last year was unusually intense in the ad industry, with the usual swings magnified. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
International
The Bank of Japan reduced its official discount rate by half a percentage point, to 4.5 percent, effective immediately. [D5.]
The Bundesbank's decision to raise interest rates shows that despite lofty rhetoric, European unity is easier said than done. [D1.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Investment bankers and economists say the quarter-point drop in interest rates since mid-December is likely to bring a torrent of corporate debt issues soon. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D5.]
Infinity has generated some excitement in broadcasting circles with its plan to buy WFAN-AM. The deal appears set, assuming investors buy stock in Infinity, which was taken private three years ago. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); NEW ISSUES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); NEWSSTANDS (64%); 

PERSON: ROBERT ADAM MOSBACHER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1011 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2173 words

HEADLINE: Wilder Seeks to Mix Black Support With Middle-Class Votes

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GORHAM, N.H.

 BODY:
At 7:15, the pale gray light of an early December morning found L. Douglas Wilder, Presidential candidate, standing in the cold outside a paper mill eagerly, and unsuccessfully, looking for warm hands to shake. Arriving at the James River Corporation plant a half hour behind schedule, Mr. Wilder had missed the 7 o'clock shift change when more than 200 workers report to work. So Mr. Wilder, who readily acknowledges that his campaign's main problem is that few people even know his name, missed a chance to meet anyone except a handful of stragglers.
The Wilder campaign seems disorganized, with few volunteers or paid workers in New Hampshire. His fund raising has not met his own expectations. He offers little more than slogans and a few details on important issues like health care and the economy. The Presidential-campaign experience of his manager, Joe Johnson, consists of running Michael S. Dukakis's losing effort in Nevada in 1988. 
 At first blush, Mr. Wilder's effort gives pundits and political professionals little reason to think of the Governor of Virginia as a serious contender or to predict that his candidacy will last much beyond the New Hampshire primary.
Yet this does not seem to dent Mr. Wilder's optimism. In part, he says, that is because he does not view his opponents as all that imposing.
"The amazing thing is that when people talk about my candidacy they talk as if I'm up against giants," Mr. Wilder said. "Who's a giant out there? I don't quarrel with you and I'm not being Socratic. I'm just being logical. If I'm so weak, who's so strong?"
For most other candidates in Mr. Wilder's position, such sang-froid would be unthinkable. But his campaign strategists and professional political prognosticators think he has an ace in the hole: the black vote.
 
His Metamorphosis
Playing Up Racial Pride
 At the start of his quest for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Wilder seemed to downplay the importance of his race in his Presidential campaign, even rejecting an idea made by some supporters that he announce his intention to run at George Washington's home, Mount Vernon, thereby establishing a link between the nation's first President and its first black elected Governor.
But in a contest for the hearts of the liberal voters who are such a dominant force in the Democratic presidential primaries, and with the Rev. Jesse Jackson opting not to run, Mr. Wilder seems to have chosen to emphasize the main characteristic that distinguishes him from the other Democratic contenders.
Mr. Wilder's unabashed appeal to racial pride was on display at the close of the first debate among the six Democratic aspirants in early December. While other candidates offered visions of the basis of their campaigns -- establishing a national health care plan, aiding the middle class, or making the nation competitive -- Mr. Wilder summed up by referring to the Jim-Crow environment of his youth and much of his adult life and by evoking the memory of a black abolitionist.
"My parents named me for Frederick Douglass," Mr. Wilder said, glossing over the fact his first name is Lawrence and his middle name is spelled differently from the 19th-century hero. "He was a slave. And on September the 3d, 1838, he escaped and found his dream for freedom.
"I wonder if on that date he could have imagined that just 153 years later, his namesake, a grandson of slaves, would be speaking to the American people as the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, running for the Presidency of the United States of America."
Such a nakedly racial appeal represents a metamorphosis for Mr. Wilder. Having won his party's nomination for Lieutenant Governor in 1985 and Governor in 1989 without a primary fight, he has not run a campaign against a white Democrat in years. As a result, in his last two campaigns he played down race in favor of themes like fiscal responsibility and support for the death penalty, which appeal more to moderate whites. He was able to pursue such a strategy secure in the knowledge that blacks would support him out of either racial solidarity or fear of his Republican opponent.
With his victories in Virginia demonstrating an ability to win white votes, many Democrats saw Mr. Wilder as a more palatable alternative to Mr. Jackson, whose strong identification with blacks and the poor was, some party strategists felt, alienating white middle-class voters.
Though the Governor, whose relationship with Mr. Jackson is cool at best, declines to view himself as a rival to the civil rights leader, he does draw distinctions between himself, an elected official in charge of a state, and Mr. Jackson, who for the first time last year was elected to an official position and became a nonvoting delegate to the Senate for the District of Columbia.
"Jesse is an activist, perhaps the foremost activist of our time," Mr. Wilder said during a campaign flight in a Commonwealth of Virginia airplane in New Hampshire. "I'm an elected official. I have to work with more coalitions, tolerate more diverse viewpoints. It's not stellar, but it's more productive over the long run. We've just chosen different roads."
Yet, the roads he and Mr. Jackson have chosen to travel to capture the Democratic nomination seem, at least for the present, to be strikingly similar. With Mr. Jackson eschewing a run for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Wilder appears to be positioning himself to inherit Mr. Jackson's constituency.
But one impediment to Mr. Wilder's securing the black vote may be Mr. Jackson himself. In late December, Mr. Wilder accused Mr. Jackson of pressuring delegates who supported the civil rights leader in 1988 to run as uncommitted this time. Indeed, three days before Mr. Wilder appeared at a recent convention in Las Vegas of black elected officials, Mr. Jackson met with a number of those attending and asked them not to commit to any candidate just yet.
"His message, as far as I can discern, was, 'Chill,' " said Regis F. Groff, a Colorado State Senator and the president of the National Black Caucus of State Legislators. Mr. Jackson has said the Governor was using him as a scapegoat for his faltering campaign.
 
His Strategy
Gathering Speed In the South
 Though they insist they are not ignoring the country's first primary, Wilder strategists make clear that as the campaign moves south from frigid and overwhelmingly white New Hampshire to states with significant black populations, they hope his candidacy -- like Mr. Jackson's run in 1988 -- will gather speed.
"It's too early to call New Hampshire," said Mr. Johnson, the campaign manager. "There may be a situation where we might do well there. But the expectation for us is not in Iowa and New Hampshire, but in Maryland and on Super Tuesday."
Maryland may well be the most critical state for Mr. Wilder in the early stages of the primary campaign. A solid showing by the Governor in the state's March 3 primary could garner sufficient news media attention to bring out black voters in the Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas primaries that will be held a week later.
There are indications that Mr. Wilder has a toehold in Maryland. A telephone survey by Mason Dixon Public Opinion of 428 Maryland Democrats who are likely to vote in the primary conducted showed Mr. Wilder leading the Democratic field with 20 percent of the vote. Bill Clinton, Governor of Arkansas, followed with 12 percent, and Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska was third with 10 percent.
The survey, conducted from Dec. 11 through Dec. 14, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4.5 percent.
Spurred primarily by the spillover from Washington across the state line east into Prince Georges County, Maryland has one of the fastest-growing black populations in the country. Blacks now make up nearly 25 percent of Maryland's population, according to 1990 census data, and the state is projected to have the third-highest percentage of blacks of any state, after Mississippi and Louisiana, by the turn of the century.
And, especially in Prince Georges County, which contains many Federal employees, these blacks tend to be middle class, well-read and likely to vote. In 1988, Mr. Jackson got 88 percent of the black vote in the state's primary, which was won by Mr. Dukakis.
"We have a rather large and rather sophisticated black population that could go heavily for Wilder," said Ray Jenkins, editorial page editor of the Baltimore Evening Sun. "They vote heavily, at least in Presidential elections."
If his strategy is successful, Mr. Wilder will have positioned himself for a serious shot for the Vice Presidential nomination or for a future run for the Presidency.
"I don't think he believes he can be a Presidential candidate this year," said Larry J. Sabato, a professor of government at the University of Virginia who is a veteran Wilder-watcher. "But if he solidifies his support, he could become a real player at the convention. And in the right circumstance, he could even set his sights on the Vice Presidency."
Mention the possibility that he is running for the Vice Presidency to Mr. Wilder, however, and one gets a testy response.
"I didn't file for that," Mr. Wilder said in an interview in his office in Virginia's capital, Richmond. "I didn't announce for that. I've never said that. I know it's difficult for people like you to understand that people like me could want to be the top. Maybe you never wanted to be the top. But I've always wanted to be at the top.
"When I say people like you, I don't mean it personally. It is difficult -- very, very difficult --for people to assume that an African-American could actually believe that he could be the top. And it always has happened to me in reference to elections that people have said, oh come on, you got to be kidding. Governor? Of the state of Virginia?"
Being Governor may provide a solution to Mr. Wilder's current money problems. Last month the campaign revised its plan to raise $1 million by the end of the year, saying it hoped to have that amount by Feb. 1. But as a sitting Governor -- albeit one who cannot succeed himself -- who is about to submit a budget, Mr. Wilder will probably get an infusion of contributions from lobbyists and others who do business with the state hoping to shape the budget to benefit them, Mr. Sabato said.
 
His Appeal
For Middle Class, Fiscal Caution
 While gaining a solid black base is intended to make Mr. Wilder a serious contender in the South and border states, his strategy after Super Tuesday is to do well in financially strapped states like Michigan and New York by playing up his fiscal conservatism.
Mr. Wilder also hopes to attract middle-class votes with his idea of an immediate $50 billion cut in Federal spending. He says $10 billion in the savings would come out of defense, $15 billion from items in the budget that are not needed and $25 billion by cutting administrative and bureaucratic waste. The savings would be used to cut taxes and to send money to cities and states to handle social problems like drug abuse and homelessness.
Describing his ideas in his announcement speech, Mr. Wilder said, "My plan: Put America first, begin the process of getting the economy moving again, to put us on a path that will attack Federal spending, to begin the process of relieving the regressive tax burden on middle-class families and to aid localities that provide innovative leadership in attacking the pernicious evil of drugs and drug-related crime."
But so far, Mr. Wilder has not presented a detailed plan of exactly what would be cut to provide money for such projects.
"It's amazing what you can do," he said. "You call on the agencies and say give me three percent cuts across the board; five percent cuts across the board in administration. Tell me the things that you would rather not do without and the things you feel you could sacrifice. Allow them the flexibility. I did that in Virginia."
On the stump, he likes to boast of his ability to balance Virginia's budget in the face of revenue shortfalls without raising taxes and laying off less than 400 state employees.
But such a message is not the stuff that traditionally has brought in black support. Mr. Wilder also lacks the fire and passion of Mr. Jackson and does not have a personal history of being on the front lines of the civil rights movement. Speaking at the convention of black officials in Las Vegas, Mr. Wilder recounted a recent visit to Selma, Ala., where in 1965 state troopers on horseback clubbed peaceful civil rights marchers as they crossed the city's Edmund Pettus Bridge.
"As we drove across the Edmund Pettus Bridge I said to myself, 'I wasn't here in 1965, and didn't participate in that battle,' " Mr. Wilder told his audience.
He quickly minimized his absence, however, with a joke. "I have often said that if everybody was there on that Edmund Pettus Bridge that said they were there, the bridge would have fallen down," he quipped.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAWRENCE DOUGLAS WILDER"
 
Born: Jan. 17, 1931, in Richmond Va.
 
Education: Armstrong High School, Richmond; B.S., Virginia Union University, 1951; J.D., Howard University School of Law, 1959.
 
Religion: Baptist.
 
Military Service: Army, 1952-53.
 
Married To: Eunice Montgomery in 1958; divorced in 1978.
 
Children: Lynn Diana, 32, Lawrence Douglas Jr., 29, and Loren Deane, 28.
 
Other Major Positions: State Senator, 1969-85; Lieutenant Governor, 1986-89. Governor, 1989 to present.
 
Current Job: Governor of Virginia.
 
Hobbies: Horseback riding, cooking and bridge.
 
PRESIDENTIAL PROSPECTS
 
Strength: Black candidate with proven ability to attract white votes.
 
Weaknesses: Inexperienced campaign staff; lacks coherent message that sets candidacy apart.
 
Strategy: Pitch message of fiscal restraint to build solid base among black voters and win support form middle-class whites.
1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: JR (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY FORT JAMES CORP (72%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS (IN US) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (78%); PAPER MILLS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LIBERALISM (67%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; WILDER, L DOUGLAS (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) JESSE JACKSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1012 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Number of Farm Owners Is at Lowest Level in the Century

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
A Government study has found that the number of people who own farmland in this country has dwindled to the lowest level in the century.
The report, by the United States Agriculture Department, said nearly half of all American farmland is in the hands of 124,000 owners. 
 Most of the owners are individuals or couples who own the farms jointly, it said; corporations hold about 15 percent of the land.
 
Farm Size Tripled
 And while total farm acreage was slightly more than in 1900, the average farm size has more than tripled, the study found.
The number of owners of farmland is of great interest to the Government because as it drops, decisions about the use of land and about improvements, conservation and other significant areas will be made by an increasingly smaller proportion of the overall population, the report said.
The report, by the Agriculture Department's Economic Research Service, also found that many current owners have little direct role in operating the nation's 2 million farms and ranches.
"That means that decisions concerning larger operations are being made by fewer farmers and fewer, but proportionately more, non-farmer landowners," the report said. "These changes in the structure of farmland ownership parallel the enlargement of farm size, reduction in farm numbers and reduction in farm employment."
The report said a 1989 survey of farm ownership estimated that by the end of 1988, 2.95 million people owned 833 million acres of private farmland. But roughly 124,000 owners held 47 percent of the land. And owners whose holdings consisted of fewer than 50 acres accounted for 30 percent of the total but held only 2 percent of the acreage.
 
Outlook for Some Trends
 The report also said that of the total number of owners, 44 percent were non-operators who held 41 percent of the land.
"The century began with more operators than owners, and is ending with substantially more owners than operators," the study said. "Compared with owners and operators, the amount of land in farms, which peaked in the 1950's, has changed little."
The study said current trends should leave 1.7 million farms and 2.7 million owners by the year 2000, as against 5.7 million farms and 4.9 million agricultural landowners in 1900.
"The shrinking number of farms and landowners will contribute further to the decline of rural communities and may affect markets for commodities and factors of production," the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICES INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (89%); FARM LABOR (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1013 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Is Making Supermarkets Edgy

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
Wal-Mart, which overtook K Mart and Sears to become the nation's largest retailer, now seems to be angling toward Safeway and Kroger in the grocery business.
In October, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. acquired a small Arkansas grocery chain, Phillips Companies, and is expanding its Super Center stores, which devote half of their space to groceries. Wal-Mart is also stepping up its efforts to sell ground beef, freshly baked bread, heads of lettuce, and other fresh foods at its Sam's Clubs, the company's fast-growing warehouse-style stores. 
 For now, food is a small part of Wal-Mart's overall sales. But given Wal-Mart's track record of rolling over competitors and its unabashed willingness to throw around its weight with suppliers, many food retailers and some food processors are already nervous.
"You'd have to be asleep not to be concerned," said Craig Schnuck, chief executive of a 59-store Schnuck's Market grocery chain based in St. Louis. "No one has ever been as big as Wal-Mart is."
What supermarket executives seem to fear most is that Wal-Mart will use its clout with suppliers to demand price breaks not available to mere grocers. Some also acknowledge that Wal-Mart's fabled skills in distribution could allow the chain to offer lower prices on many grocery products.
To combat Wal-Mart in areas like St. Louis, traditional supermarket operators are sprucing up their offerings of fresh fruits and meats and emphasizing service. Mr. Schnuck said his company was also exploring ways to make its operations more efficient.
Some food executives are worried that Wal-Mart will become so powerful that it will demand special prices on big wholesale orders. "There are a lot of manufacturers that are concerned about special deals," said Charles McCarthy, president of the sales division of the Campbell Soup Company. "There is always pressure from the power buyers like Wal-Mart once they have a lot of your business."
Wal-Mart is also building a line of its own "Sam's American Choice" food products in crisp, attractive packaging. The company is selling its own version of cola, cookies and juice in some stores. Last year, the company acquired the McLane Company, a grocery distributor.
"I believe that it is their intention to be one of the largest food retailers in the country by the end of the century," said Ryan Mathews, editor of Grocery Marketing, published by Gorman Publishing in Chicago.
Wal-Mart executives declined to discuss their plans to expand food and grocery sales.
But Robert F. Buchanan, a retail analyst with Alex. Brown & Sons in Baltimore, said there was little doubt that Wal-Mart was "moving big into food." Food retailing accounted for $362 billion in sales last year, according to Alex. Brown, compared with $84.6 billion in discount department store sales last year. Mr. Buchanan said that building up grocery sales will play an increasingly large role in the company's stated goal of reaching $100 billion in sales by the end of the decade.
Last summer, Wal-Mart struck a deal with Mexico's biggest retailer, Cifra S.A., to open warehouse-style stores in Mexico that would sell a range of products, including stationery, electronics and food.
 
Uneasy Ripples
 Some in the food industry are concerned that Wal-Mart will gain too much power as it expands into an important new area of food retailing. In Canada and Europe, where there is a far greater degree of consolidation in food retailing, a few large retailers wield tremendous influence over the food industry. "It makes negotiating more difficult," said Mr. McCarthy of Campbell.
Already, some of Wal-Mart's recent moves are sending uneasy ripples through the food industry. In November, Wal-Mart told manufacturers that it would no longer deal with the brokers who act as middlemen between manufacturers and retailers.
Wal-Mart says cutting out the brokers will improve communications and allow the company to react quicker in ordering. The company argues that the sheer volume of its business -- it had sales of $32.6 billion last year -- mandates that it has direct ties to its suppliers.
 
'This Is Not Passive'
 Some food retailing executives have a different interpretation. "It's Wal-Mart flexing its muscles and saying we are a national, dominant retailer and we decide the rules of a game, and not you," said Brian Sharoff, president of the Private Label Manufacturers Association in New York. "At one time retailers were viewed as passive. This is not passive."
Grocers are also worried that Wal-Mart's decision to stop working with brokers will give it a price advantage. Food processors pay brokers small commissions for selling their products. Grocers say that manufacturers dealing directly with Wal-Mart could pass the savings on to the chain in the form of discounts.
Federal law bars food makers from cutting out middlemen simply to avoid paying a commission and then passing along the savings to a supermarket in the form of additional discounts.
"We are concerned that people might find a way to get around that," Mr. Schnuck said. "I just want to be given the same opportunity that the other guy is given."
The supermarket industry has commissioned a study, due out early next year, on whether discounters are getting special prices not available to other retailers.
 
Selling Through 'Super Centers'
 Some retailing experts say they think Wal-Mart's primary food-retailing efforts will be done through its Super Centers, which range from 97,000 square feet to 211,000 square feet.
Half of each center is a supermarket. The other half is a typical Wal-Mart, selling underwear, brooms, diapers, toys and myriad other apparel and household items. Wal-Mart has just six of the giant centers, all in the Midwest, but plans to open another 14 in rural areas next year.
Analysts said the stores are more effective than the huge Hypermart stores that Wal-Mart tested but decided not to expand after a poor response from consumers. The Hypermarts were too unwieldy for consumers, who were also put off by the difficulty of consistently finding the same product at the stores. Regular Wal-Mart stores already do a brisk business in supermarket-type snacks and other small items, like peanuts, candy, potato chips, napkins and paper towels.
 
K Mart's Food Strategy
 Wal-Mart's chief rival, the K Mart Corporation, is also looking at selling more food. The company is testing a complete grocery store as part of a Super K Mart Center in Medina, Ohio, near Cleveland. The store opened in August and devotes nearly one-third of its 147,000 square feet to selling groceries. The combination stores are designed to appeal to time-pressed families that are increasingly accustomed to shopping at discounters.
K Mart also sells groceries through its Pace membership warehouses. These, along with the Costco and Price Club warehouse chains, are taking a bigger share of the food retailing pie each year.
Still, supermarket executives said that the discounters will find supermarket chains to be more formidable competition than the small hardware stores and five-and-dimes that Wal-Mart and K Mart overran to start the discount industry 20 years ago.
"Food stores are much more complex than discount stores," said Michael W. Wright, chairman and chief executive of Super Valu Stores Inc., a supermarket operator and food wholesaler based in Minneapolis.
 
After the Recession
 Also, some supermarket operators assert that the success of Wal-Mart and others that sell groceries in no-frills warehouses has been built on a bad economy. "This recession is made to order for discount operations," said Michael J. Rourke, a spokesman for the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company Inc., which operates supermarkets in 26 states. "As the economy improves, their appeal will not be as great."
But Wal-Mart's expertise in logistics and distribution will be an enormous benefit in the grocery business, where efficient shipping and warehousing are crucial to profits. Mr. Buchanan, the Alex. Brown analyst, recently shopped at Wal-Mart grocery stores in Missouri and said that prices were 11 to 14 percent lower than at competing local grocery stores.
"Traditional supermarkets have left their flanks exposed," said Mr. Mathews, the editor of Grocery Marketing. "They didn't understand that people were willing to trade off some amenities for cost. If you have a family of four and you are making $35,000 a year, you really don't care if there is classical music on the Muzak system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, is expanding its Super Center stores, which devote half their space to groceries, and appears to be making a major move into food retailing. This store is in Washington, Mo. (Bill Stover for The New York Times) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); CPB (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (72%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (64%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (64%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); PHILLIPS COS INC (72%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (64%); MCLANE CO INC (62%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES AND TRADE GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (98%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); WHOLESALERS (77%); FOOD MFG (76%); MEATS (76%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); PUBLISHING (62%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN IAN J MCCARTHY (53%); IAN J MCCARTHY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1014 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Mosbacher Criticizes Japanese

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher today became the first Administration official to say publicly that Japan was partly to blame for the lingering recession in the United States.
Mr. Mosbacher's comments are especially significant because he will head Mr. Bush's re-election campaign next year and serve as the chief fund-raiser. The remarks came as President Bush prepared to leave Monday on a trip to Japan and three other Asian countries that will focus on trade issues. 
 That trip was originally scheduled in November as a demonstration of America's political and military commitment to its Asian allies, but it has now become focused on trade and jobs. The change of emphasis seems to reflect President Bush's slippage in polls and attacks from Democrats saying that he is more concerned with foreign affairs than with the nation's economic problems.
 
Remarks on 'Meet the Press'
 Today, on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Mr. Mosbacher was asked whether he agreed with a comment by Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, that the current recession is being "made in Japan." Mr. Mosbacher replied, "Not totally, no."
Pressed as to whether he meant that Japan was partly responsible, Mr. Mosbacher replied, "I would say they are exacerbating the problem" by not allowing in American exports that would produce jobs in the United States. Nearly 20,000 jobs are created by each $1 billion increase in United States exports, he added.
Mr. Mosbacher mentioned earlier in the program that the United States had the option of restricting Japanese car exports to the United States. But he cautioned that the nation's deficit with Japan grew over many years and could not be quickly reduced.
 
Vehement Denial by Japan
 Hiroshi Hirabayashi, the deputy chief of the Japanese Embassy in Washington, vehemently denied that Japan bore any responsibility for the United States recession. Some American managers and Government officials "want to place the responsibility on the foreigners, on the Japanese," he said, adding, "In my opinion, it's outrageous."
Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry has made many efforts to accommodate American demands, he said, citing voluntary restraints on car exports and programs to increase imports. "MITI has offered many initiatives to Mr. Mosbacher, and then he blames the Japanese," he continued. "I think it is not fair."
Some obstacles to imports do persist in Japan, Mr. Hirabayashi added, but he said the main reasons for the trade imbalance, particularly in automobiles, lay in poor-quality management at American corporations and the failure of American political leaders to reduce the Federal budget deficit and adopt other responsible economic policies.
 
Shifts in Bush Stance
 Mr. Mosbacher's willingness to blame Japan was only the latest in a series of signs that the Administration is concerned about the trade issue. President Bush, for example, now refers to the free-trade agreement under negotiation with Mexico as a "fair trade" agreement. Fair trade has often been a euphemism in Washington for protectionism, although Mr. Bush has repeatedly said, most recently on Thursday, that he will not become a protectionist.
 
No Car Cuts by Japanese
 The Bush Administration is under pressure to take more aggressive action on trade, partly because industries suffering from foreign competition are reluctant to give generously to the President's re-election campaign. Robert K. Morris, the director of international trade at the National Association of Manufacturers, said Mr. Mosbacher might be freer to address these industries' concerns now because he will soon be leaving the Administration.
President Bush announced last month Mr. Mosbacher's departure from the Commerce Department, and Administration officials privately predict that this will take place around Jan. 15.
Many more United States industries have developed close ties with Japanese companies and the Japanese economy and are reluctant to see those ties jeopardized, Mr. Morris added.
Also on "Meet the Press" today, Deputy Foreign Minister Koji Watanabe of Japan said his Government had been studying ways to expand imports of American goods. But he repeatedly denied reports that Japan might voluntarily cut shipments of automobiles to the United States.
Mr. Watanabe appeared prior to Mr. Mosbacher on the television program and did not have an opportunity to respond to the Commerce Secretary's remarks.
The House majority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, and five Democratic members of Congress from Michigan proposed legislation on Dec. 20 to reduce sales of Japanese cars in the United States unless the bilateral trade deficit is reduced from $42 billion now to less than $5 billion by 1997.
Asked whether significant improvement was possible in five years, Mr. Mosbacher responded, "We're not going to get that."
Mr. Dingell said on Dec. 20, "I don't think that it is good that America's trade policy is made in Japan or that the recession, which our people are now undergoing, is made in Japan."
Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan, said the same day, "The continuing trade invasion by Japan is the central part of our economic problems and the continuing loss of American jobs."
 
Adopting Gephardt Concern
 Clyde Prestowitz, a former Reagan Administration trade negotiator, said Mr. Mosbacher's statements appeared to represent a shift in the American position on trade.
"In my experience over the last 10 years, the position of successive Administrations has been that recessions have been due to macroeconomics," like the nation's low savings rates and persistent Federal budget deficits, he said.
 Mr. Gephardt's legislation would cap sales not only of Japanese imports but also of many cars produced in the United States by Japanese companies using large quantities of imported parts.
Mr. Mosbacher adopted this concern today, saying that these companies should rely more heavily on American-made parts.
He said, "What we want to do is make sure in free trade we have access, not only in Japan but in the U.S., to U.S. auto-parts makers into the transplants -- the Japanese companies here -- so that we can sell U.S. auto parts in our own country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I would say they are exacerbating the problem," Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher said yesterday, concerning the Japanese and the lingering recession. (Associated Press) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; MOSBACHER, ROBERT A (SEC) GEORGE W BUSH (77%); JOHN DINGELL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1015 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: The Bank of Japan Cuts Its Discount Rate to 4.5%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Dec. 30

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan reduced its official discount rate by half a percentage point today, to 4.5 percent, effective immediately, central bank officials said.
The reduction was expected after the Federal Reserve Board cut the United States discount rate to 3.5 percent on Dec. 20. 
 Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata said the reduction was intended to supplement earlier fiscal stimuli, including a planned increase in spending for public works.
Before the reduction, the Japanese Government had included measures in its 1992 budget aimed at offsetting an accelerating slowdown in the economy, Mr. Hata said in a prepared statement.
 
Seen Circumventing Criticism
 Currency traders said the timing of the reduction was probably intended to circumvent American criticism of relatively tight Japanese monetary policy before President Bush arrives in Japan on Jan. 7. It is hoped that these measures, combined with this third reduction in the discount rate in this year's second half, will benefit every sector of the economy and help build public confidence, Mr. Hata said.
The discount rate peaked at 6 percent in 1989. The first reduction after five consecutive increases came on July 1 of this year, when the rate was cut to 5.5 percent. On Nov. 14, it was reduced to 5 percent.
In a separate statement, the Bank of Japan said the rate reduction was made in light of recent economic fundamentals and financial market movements. "It is the judgment of the bank that this action will provide a sufficient monetary condition for achieving more balanced non-inflationary growth," it said.
 
Effort to Aid Planning
 The central bank said the timing of the reduction took into consideration the fact that once the new year begins many Japanese businesses will be preparing business plans for the 1992 fiscal year, which begins April 1. Many Japanese businesses are on holiday through the end of this week.
The bank said it hoped the cut would help insure a smooth transition to a more balanced economy based on stable prices.
Currency traders said the move could temporarily bolster the dollar in a thin pre-holiday market, although the rate reduction had already been largely discounted by market participants.
Stock and bond traders said the credit easing would also benefit Japanese stocks and bonds, but they added that the move was already mostly factored into securities prices and that the duration of any positive movement might be short-lived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TRENDS (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1016 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Strategy in Budget Battle In Albany Is Calculated Gamble

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has called the Republicans who run the State Senate obdurate, reckless and irresponsibly sluggish. "They're playing chicken with the state of New York in the car," he said.
But if this is a game of chicken, then the Democratic Governor has already balked, and more than once, offering several major concessions from the budget plan he first advanced weeks ago. 
 The Senate remains adamant in its position: no plan but its plan, which would force an unprecedented retrenchment in the state's social-welfare programs. And as the fight over how to close $5 billion in budget gaps goes into its seventh week, it seems increasingly clear that inherent in the Senators' stand is a very deliberate strategy that includes a very calculated gamble.
It is that they will not suffer the brunt of blame if the impasse winds up creating genuine turmoil -- and more specifically, if it leads Wall Street to make another cut in the state's credit rating, already the third-worst in the nation, ranking after Louisiana and Massachusetts.
A credit downgrading, which the state last received last year in the midst of another budget standoff, could add tens or hundreds of millions of dollars to the cost incurred by the state and its agencies in borrowing money on Wall Street. But even more ominously it could affect the borrowing ability of hundreds of cities, towns and school districts whose own credit ratings are tied to the state's.
"No one seems to realize yet that we are heading toward a crisis," said one top official in the Democratic-controlled Assembly, which in many ways is in the middle of the bitter fight between Mr. Cuomo and the Republicans. "For some of these places," said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, "it would mean they'd be turned into Junk Bond City. It's the only way they could borrow money."
 
Putting Its Foot Down
 The Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, insists that after years of compromising with the Democrats, this is the year his party will put its foot down. This is not so much a battle of small versus big spenders: what the Senate is really seeking to do is protect against cuts in local-assistance programs, especially school aid, which all amount to a politically potent form of property-tax relief in the suburban areas from which the Republicans derive their strength.
If Mr. Marino gets what he is holding out for, New York will have taken actions that the Democrats and advocates for the poor describe as horrific and that would probably have seemed unimaginable to both major parties a few years ago: cuts of 20 percent in some grants to the unemployed, a moratorium on any new construction of group homes for the mentally ill, elimination of the state emergency-assistance program for the homeless.
But what if Mr. Marino does not get what he wants? After all this arguing, the Governor and the legislative leaders have taken no joint action toward closing so much as a penny of either the $875 million gap they face in the current budget, or the potential $4 billion deficit in the budget for the fiscal year that begins on April 1. If the impasse continues without resolution, then there is an increasing danger that Wall Street will step in with a downgrading of the state's credit.
The credit rating agencies have come to act as sort of a baleful Greek chorus, commenting on Albany's inability to control the budget, severely out of balance for the third year in a row. A possible downgrading is the wild card in the proceedings now.
 
No Obvious Deadline
 In fact, one of the oddities in the situation is that there is no obvious deadline for a solution, other than a date that heads off action by the rating agencies. But no one knows exactly when this might come, and the two major agencies that assess the state's creditworthiness, Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, have declined to set any timetable, even though they have both warned of increasing concern about the lack of a solution.
No one here, of course, says they want to see the state's credit rating cut, although some Republican Senators have said they do not believe such action is imminent. But on Friday Mr. Cuomo said it was a threat that could strike "at any time."
But if the action does come, the major political question is who will be held responsible for it. The answer, which could affect next fall's elections and even alter the balance of power here, is not at all clear.
In many ways, the whole concept of a credit rating is arguably an abstraction to most voters, and it may be an even more abstract proposition for them to blame their local state lawmaker for the problem.
One Republican Senator, Nicholas A. Spano, of Yonkers, said earlier this month that even though his constituents said they were angry about the chaos in Albany, they were receptive when he explained to them what, in his view, the Republicans were trying to do. "They say: 'That's right, I don't want our school aid cut. I want you to take the cheats off of welfare.' "
Because Governor Cuomo is the person most in charge of things in Albany, he tends to be the person who gets blamed the most when things fall apart. But this year the Governor, who does not have to worry about re-election next fall, has strongly suggested that he may begin an all-out attack against the Republican state lawmakers, pinning the blame on them as they run to keep their seats, which are up every two years.
 
Parlor Guessing Game
 For all his eloquence, Mr. Cuomo has never turned the weight of his oratorical fury against the Senate Republicans at election time. Last year, as he concentrated on his own re-election, he offered a few pro forma pitches for an all-Democratic Legislature but did not campaign against any Republican incumbents.
The reason for Mr. Cuomo's apparent caution in taking on the Republicans has long been the object of a parlor guessing game in Albany, although he heatedly denies it exists at all. Some political analysts say he always believed the Republicans would keep control of the Senate anyway, making him reluctant to burn too many bridges with them, while others hypothesize that he actually likes having the Republican Senators around as a brake on the more forceful liberal wing of his own party.
 
Genuinely Outraged
 Now it may not matter because the Governor really does seem genuinely outraged by the Republicans, whom he has blamed, among other things, for keeping him out of the Presidential race by failing to cooperate with him on a budget deal.
And so New York may be treated next fall to the spectacle of a vengeful Governor Cuomo traveling to individual Senators' districts to implore people to throw them out of office.
It might work. On the other hand, it might backfire. Even when Mr. Cuomo did not campaign against them in 1990, the Republicans willingly brought him into the race anyway, telling voters they remained the only real bulwark against a Governor who was not exactly at the height of his popularity.
Many Republicans might well welcome a visit to their district from the Governor next fall, even a distinctly hostile one, since it would only help to raise their profile.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); GOVERNORS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); RANKINGS (67%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (50%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1017 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: MATTITUCK JOURNAL;
Despite Protests, the Golden Arches Are Coming

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MATTITUCK, L.I., Dec. 27

 BODY:
There are only three towns on Long Island without a fast-food restaurant. Soon there may be only two.
Over the strenuous opposition of residents, the Town of Southold has agreed to permit a McDonald's here. But the decision continues to generate debate, and the battle may not be over. 
 After McDonald's announced plans last year to build a restaurant on the main road, Route 25, the Zoning Board of Appeals held three public hearings. Speaker after speaker demanded that this historic town of 19,836 people, settled in 1640, remain fast-food free -- like nearby East Hampton and Shelter Island -- and they begged the board to deny McDonald's the needed permit.
"Are we brave enough to be different and be the only town in the world without a McDonald's?" said Agnes Dickinson of Southold.
If McDonald's came to town, many said, other fast-food restaurants would follow, and in a garish twinkling the Island's long ribbon of fast food strips, now pressing eastward from neighboring Riverhead, would roll over a narrow landscape of the North Shore that still looks in places like storybook New England.
"Other corporations wait for McDonald's to open the door," said Deborah A. Sidlauskas of Mattituck.
McDonald's countered with traffic studies that show roads could carry the extra traffic and with an architectural design the company says will make its restaurant fit in.
This month, in a 3-to-2 decision that seems to have pleased nobody, the zoning board voted to allow McDonald's to build on a three-acre parcel sandwiched between an insurance office and a gas station, and near an automotive shop, a concrete contractor, a dentist's office, a small medical center, a local newspaper office, and an Italian restaurant.
But the board declined to permit a drive-through window, the source of nearly half the profits for most McDonald's. The board chairman, Gerard P. Goehringer, said the zoning code allowed drive-in restaurants, a style of food service that has nearly vanished, but said nothing about drive-throughs.
McDonald's opponents called the decision less than half a loaf and predicted the company would sue the board or build first and apply for the drive-through window later.
"They will be back in two years asking for the drive-through if they can't get it now," said Linda Fletcher of New Suffolk, the vice president of the North Fork Environmental Council. "And this company stops at nothing. They are involved in lawsuits all over the country."
Paul M. Facella, a regional vice president for McDonald's Corporation in Valley Stream, L.I., said the company had not decided how to respond to the board's decision. But he said he was disappointed by the denial of the drive-through window.
"We showed we could work with the town to take a piece of land that's an eyesore and build a building that would improve the village ambience," he said.
Mr. Facella said the Mattituck restaurant would be a New England cape set deep in the lot, with cedar siding painted driftwood gray, and a gabled roof with four dog-housedormers. The restaurant's trademark sign would be rendered in wood and kept low.
When the fast-food foes said garbage from the Mattituck McDonald's would litter their lawns and stuff the town's garbage landfill, McDonald's offered to cart the garbage out of town.
The company also estimated the restaurant would mean 75 new jobs, a $500,000 annual payroll in a hard economic time, and $9,000 in property taxes for the town.
Opponents remain unswayed. "These are low-paying jobs for a small number of people," said Ms. Fletcher. "The big money does not stay in the community. It goes back to McDonald's corporate headquarters." Others said damage to tourism would outweigh any tax money.
McDonald's has questioned whether the vocal opponents reflect the views of most town residents. But in the zoning board's offices, hundreds of letters and petitions in three thick folders suggest community opinion is running heavily against fast food.
"I feel like I'm Rambo up here taking on a whole division," said Frank Carlin of Laurel, a pro-McDonald's speaker at one of the hearings.
Mr. Carlin said he counted four pizza parlors, two ice cream shops, seven delicatessens and three 7-Elevens in the town. "So what's wrong with having one McDonald's?" he asked.
Another supporter said, "When you go to McDonald's at least you know what you are getting."
"Yeah, a heart attack," a woman in the audience replied.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many residents in Southhold, L.I., are begging the Zoning Board of Appeals to deny a permit for a McDonald's restaurant on a lot on Route 25. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)
 
Map of Long Island showing locations of Southhold and Mattituck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP MCDONALD'S CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHOLD (NY) UNITED STATES (73%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY FAST FOOD (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ZONING (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (70%); POURED CONCRETE CONTRACTORS (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1018 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Profitably Policing Workers' Comp

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
While skyrocketing costs endanger workers' compensation insurance in many states, the SAIF Corporation of Salem, Ore., is a rare bird in the wilderness: a failing state-owned insurer that suddenly stopped its fall and rose to become a striking business success.
Three years after it was losing $1 million a week, the company reports that it expects to end 1991 more than $45 million in the black. SAIF has reduced premiums to the company's 37,000 business clients by 23 percent in the last two years while doubling its payments to legitimately injured workers. And in addition to rate reductions, it has refunded $37 million to policyholders. 
 But even more striking in the $60 billion workers' compensation field -- which private insurers in many other states are abandoning as unprofitable -- is that SAIF executives largely attribute the turnaround to a crackdown on fraud and abuse.
In the process, SAIF's president and chief executive, Stan Long, has riled lawyers, providers of medical services and leaders of the insurance industry, who say he has unfairly exaggerated the cost of fraud and the failings of the insurance industry.
Although experts have in the past generally attributed the rising cost of workers compensation to medical costs, litigation and expanding benefits, a small but growing group of government officials and insurance executives across the country now say that exaggeration of claims and outright fraud are costing billions of dollars a year.
Executives of SAIF, a mutual insurance company that competes with privately owned carriers for workers' compensation business in Oregon, say their experience shows that in many states where workers' compensation is in crisis, part of the blame lies with insurers who refuse to look insurance cheats straight in the eye.
"Most companies come away from a case involving fraud saying, 'We just dodged another bullet,' " said Brian M. Steffel, senior vice president and claims officer of SAIF, which stands for State Accident Insurance Fund. "They are dodging their obligation to fight fraud."
But the company has riled lawyers, chiropractors and private insurers who say SAIF has portrayed them unfairly. SAIF's critics charge that that the company has denied rightful payments to truly injured workers as it has tripled its rate of rejecting claims.
"You would be able to reduce your premiums, too, if you did not pay out claims to many, many workers who deserve it," said Evohl Malagon, an attorney in Eugene who represents workers.
Workers' compensation is a system of insurance that reimburses employees for the economic impact of injuries and illness caused on the job. In some states, the insurance is sold to employers by private companies, in others by public agencies, and in many states by both.
Workers are compensated for lost wages, medical bills, and in some states job retraining; in cases of death, benefits are paid to families. In most states, the law requires employers to insure all workers and pay the premiums. Patients covered by workers' compensation insurance pay no deductibles and no part of their medical bills.
 
SAIF's New Methods
 Over the last decade, the costs of the insurance programs in all 50 states have grown more than 150 percent -- or 50 percentage points more than the growth in health-care costs over all.
As regulators deny requests for double-digit premium rises, insurance companies in many states have often responded by saying they cannot continue to lose money, and have dropped large numbers of customers. In some places, notably Maine and Rhode Island, large companies have abandoned the entire states, forcing many employers to get coverage from state-run programs intended for high-risk customers.
In Oregon, where employers were struck with double-digit premium increases in the late 1980's, SAIF began to restructure its operations in 1989 to combat fraud. It assigned 55 employees to fraud investigations and established undercover and surveillance units that have since turned up fraud cases involving more than 200 workers and medical professionals. Cases have been handed to district attorneys and professional boards for action.
The company's lawyers, meanwhile, were trained and deputized by the state Attorney General's office. Among other measures, claims adjusters' tasks were simplified and their caseloads reduced, and a new unit was established to accept or reject the majority of claims in less than 14 days. The company says it has found that one of every four claims involve some sort of fraud.
SAIF says it is aiming its antifraud activities at the small number of cases responsible for disproportionate costs. It is also helping client companies to set up safety and back-to-work programs.
 
Fewer Premiums, More Profits
 After the crackdown began, the percentage of disability claims rejected by SAIF rose to more than 37 percent, from 17 percent, and the number of claims filed has dropped 19 percent. Of the claims denied, 90 percent have been upheld on appeal. Although premiums paid to the company dropped by more than $40 million in 1990, SAIF's net income reached $46 million that year, compared with a $10 million loss the year before.
At the same time, the Oregon Legislature also enacted a number of changes, increasing medical cost-control programs, tightening the rules on compensation and reducing the number of hearings permitted with lawyers.
The director of the state Department of Insurance and Finance, Gary Weeks, said the legislative reforms helped drive down costs and increase safety. For example, he said, the safety reforms have cut the number of deaths on the job from accidents in Oregon by half.
The changes and SAIF's aggressive new methods have been praised by some labor leaders and by customers like the Schuler Corporation of Salem, a 300-employee maker of wooden cabinets and vanities with $30 million in sales. Schuler's premiums have dropped to $7,000, from $275,000 in 1987.
 
The Controversial Mr. Long
 Perhaps the most controversial element in SAIF's success story is Mr. Long himself, the company's 60-year-old president and chief executive, who faults the entire insurance industry for not challenging dubious claims. As long as insurers can pass costs to the public through higher premiums, Mr. Long said, insurers have no incentive to seek out fraud or abuse.
"If you decide that you are going to overlook fraud and get paid to overlook fraud, you, too, can be a successful insurance executive," Mr. Long said.
But critics of Mr. Long say SAIF has denied far more than fraudulent and abusive claims and has taken credit for changes instituted by the Legislature that have reduced premiums for all companies in the state. Mr. Long, they charge, has exaggerated the company's past problems and has unfairly dropped smaller and unprofitable customers.
In response to complaints, the Department of Insurance and Finance is reviewing SAIF's increased claims-rejection rate to determine whether the criticism is justified.
 
'He Is Being Unfair'
 Perhaps most disturbed by the statements of SAIF executives are leaders of rival insurance companies in Oregon.
"When Stan Long says one out of four claims involved some kind of fraud, he is being unfair to the people of this state," said Tony Feronator, a senior vice president with the Liberty Northwest Insurance Corporation, the second-largest workers' compensation insurance carrier in the state and a subsidiary of the Liberty Mutual insurance company of Boston.
"There is concern here about whether what they are doing is appropriate," Mr. Feronator said. "The bottom line in workers' compensation is not just bringing down claims costs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Schuler Corporation in Salem, Ore., where there have been no injury claims in 15 months and the company pays only $7,000 a year in workers' compensation, employees wait to receive safety bonus checks. (Don Ryan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); 

CITY: SALEM, OR, USA (93%); EUGENE, OR, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SAIF CORP SAIF CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAIF CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); SALEM, OR, USA (93%); EUGENE, OR, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES WORKERS COMPENSATION (93%); INSURANCE (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); INSURANCE FRAUD (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE FUNDS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CHIROPRACTIC (67%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1019 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Radio Deal Would Link Drive-Time Rivals

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
TOGETHER, for the first time, Howard Stern and Don Imus.
Each weekday morning, these two radio stars battle for a share of the morning "drive time" market, along the way sometimes heaping abuse on each other. Mr. Stern ranked second in the market, with a 7.0 rating on WXRK-FM, in last summer's Arbitron ratings for morning drive time, the latest figures available. Mr. Imus ranked seventh, with a 4.0 rating, on WFAN-AM. Overall, WXRK tied for 10th in the New York market, at 3.8; WFAN ranked 15th, with a 3.3 rating. 
 Now the Infinity Broadcasting Corporation, which owns WXRK-FM, is planning to buy WFAN-AM, the home of Mr. Imus, for about $70 million from the Emmis Broadcasting Company of Indianapolis. The deal appears set to go through, assuming the investing public is willing to finance the acquisition by purchasing stock in Infinity, which wants to go public only three years after a leveraged buyout took the company private and left it saddled with debt.
Infinity officials declined to be interviewed last week, but the deal has generated some excitement in the radio industry.
"There is a tremendous synergy on the morning shows," said J. T. Atherton, managing editor of Radio Business Report, an industry publication. "You put them together and that will be one hot item to sell" to advertisers. Besides putting the two morning stars into one advertising package, there is speculation that Infinity intends to export Mr. Imus's program to some of its other stations, as it already does with Mr. Stern's.
Infinity owns 17 radio stations in 12 markets, including stations in Philadelphia and Washington that carry Mr. Stern's show, and it has done better than many broadcasters in the current recession, with revenues rising at a slow rate, and losses diminishing. Investors in Infinity will no doubt be hoping that under the company's ownership, the two New York stations -- WXRK with Mr. Stern and WFAN with Mr. Imus -- will show improved results, for the price being asked in the offering is not a cheap one.
The company plans to go public by selling six million shares at a price of $16 to $18 a share.
In this deal, the company's name seems appropriate, because any price is an infinite multiple of its nonexistent profits. The company reported a loss of $39.6 million in 1990, and $24.1 million in the first nine months of this year, not including an extraordinary gain it recorded from buying back bonds at a discount.
In the world of broadcasting, of course, profits under generally accepted accounting principles are often not deemed to be an achievable goal, and managements urge investors to ignore the depreciation of intangible assets. What counts, they say, is cash flow.
The proposed public offering values the company at 11.7 to 12.3 times its 1990 cash flow, incorporating WFAN's results. That multiple evidently will be somewhat lower for 1991, because Infinity's results improved slightly in the first nine months of this year, while WFAN's moved up significantly.
Infinity obviously thinks there is plenty of room for improvement in operations at WFAN, which carries Mr. Imus weekdays from 5:30 to 10 A.M., and all-sports programming the rest of the time: the games of the New York Mets, Knicks and Rangers, and a host of sports talk shows.
The figures included in the prospectus for the offering indicate that WFAN had cash flow -- before interest expenses and before management overhead -- of $4.6 million on revenues of $21.4 million in 1990. At $70 million, Infinity is paying 15 times that cash flow.
In fact, WFAN's results are improving. For the first nine months of 1991 it reported cash flow of $6.4 million on revenues of $20.7 million. Because the prospectus does not give comparable results, and because the fourth quarter is not an especially strong one for WFAN -- with baseball over and the two local professional football teams on other stations -- it is not possible to estimate the multiple being paid based on 1991 cash flow.
By the standards of a few years ago, when deals relied on rapidly advancing ad revenues or soaring prices of radio stations, this deal is conservative. But its success still seems to be dependent on capital markets remaining friendly.
The pro forma financial results indicate that had this deal been done at the beginning of 1991, and the bonds repurchased then, Infinity would have had operating cash flow of $9.8 million, for the first nine months, even after paying its interest expenses. If the fourth quarter is that good, that would leave $13 million of cash flow available for the year, compared with a margin of only about $3 million in all of 1990. All figures ignore capital spending, which is running at better than $1 million a year.
Unfortunately, $13 million will not be good enough in 1992, because the company is scheduled to repay $16.9 million of long-term debt that year, a figure that rises gradually each year to $21.5 million in 1994, and then zooms to $252.9 million in 1995, when Infinity will have to refinance its operations.
One aid to 1992 cash flow may be the proceeds from the sale of Infinity's current AM station in New York, WZRC. After converting from a Spanish-language format in 1990, that station now plays rock music, but it does not have enough listeners to be included in the Arbitron ratings. Under Federal Communications Commission rules, Infinity will have to sell WZRC after it completes the acquisition of WFAN. Infinity has asked for a one-year waiver in order to avoid an abrupt sale.
It may be encouraging to prospective buyers of Infinity shares that insiders at the company are not taking out cash from the offering. In fact, they put cash into the company at the end of September, enabling the company to repurchase bonds at a discount.
But those insiders, who include management and Lehman Brothers, which is underwriting the new offering, did not pay retail. Their price was about $12 a share, or a discount of 25 to 33 percent from the price being asked of the public investors.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Don Imus; Howard Stern (The New York Times, 1986)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INF (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (56%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WFAN (RADIO STATION); INFINITY BROADCASTING CORP; EMMIS BROADCASTING INFINITY BROADCASTING CORP (70%); NEW YORK METS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WFAN (RADIO STATION); INFINITY BROADCASTING CORP; EMMIS BROADCASTING NEW YORK METS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (56%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; STATIONS AND NETWORKS BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); RANKINGS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BONDS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (73%); DEPRECIATION (68%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (62%); STOCK OFFERINGS (60%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD HOWARD STERN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1020 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Flood of Corporate Debt in the Offing

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
If the declines hold, investment bankers and economists say, the quarter-point drop in both short- and long-term interest rates since mid-December is likely to bring a torrent of corporate debt issues in the first weeks of the new year.
The holidays have prevented most companies from moving faster. As the end of the year approaches, traditional buyers retreat to the sidelines, and many of the investment bankers who market the debt are on vacation. 
 "There is no one around to buy them or sell them, and investment committees are not going to meet this time of year," said a corporate finance specialist at a large New York investment bank. "But the declines in rates we have seen over the last two weeks are very significant and make billions of bonds callable. The question is if companies will do it quickly."
 
Way to Aid Balance Sheets
 Large companies accustomed to tapping the credit markets are likely to be quickest to respond to the drop in rates. But analysts and executives say corporations of all sizes could help their balance sheets by issuing new securities.
"This last downward move in rates was sufficient to put in place the economies needed for replacement financing for virtually all corporations," said Lindley B. Richert, who heads MCM Inc., an investment advisory firm in New York, "and it opens the door for tenders and outright net redemptions without replacement financing."
The securities have not yet been brought to market, but the list of corporations that have filed so-called shelf registrations with the Securities and Exchange Commission is growing.
Among those who may offer new debt are companies that investment bankers say are rarely in the debt markets, like the Polaroid Corporation and the Phelps Dodge Corporation.
In addition to the filings, a handful of companies placed calls over the last week on outstanding debt securities carrying interest rates that until recently would have seemed reasonable.
This group includes PSI Energy Inc., which on Friday said it was redeeming all of its outstanding 8 7/8 percent bonds due on Oct. 1, 2008. The company said that it would refinance the issue through secured medium-term notes and that it anticipated savings of more than $10.5 million.
 
Record Volume in 1991
 On Dec. 20, the day the Federal Reserve Board surprised and delighted the financial markets by slashing its discount rate by a full percentage point, to 3.5 percent, Southern New England Telephone said it intended to redeem $80 million worth of 9 5/8 percent debentures due on Dec. 1, 2010. The announcement came a week after the company sold $80 million worth of 8.70 percent 40-year notes through an underwriting group led by Salomon Brothers.
A new surge in corporate debt issuance in early 1992 would come on top of record volume in the year just ending, a period when short- to intermediate-term interest rates have fallen sharply and long-term rates have inched lower.
Merrill Lynch's corporate bond index shows that yields on AAA- and AA-rated bonds with maturities of one to 10 years have fallen to 7.16 percent over the last year, from a 52-week high of 8.96 percent. As of Thursday, yields on A-rated bonds of similar maturity stood at 7.77 percent according to Merrill's index, down from a high of 10.01 percent.
Given those declines, it is little wonder that new debt issuance has skyrocketed.
Through Dec. 26, more than $133 billion worth of new investment-grade corporate bonds had been priced in 1991, according to data from Moody's Investors Service, the bond-rating agency, easily eclipsing the $110 billion worth of debt offered in 1986.
 
Helping to Lower Expenses
 The money raised has helped to lower companies' expenses. "This will be the first year since 1983 during which total corporate interest expense will decline," said John Lonski, a senior economist at Moody's. "It may be more than coincidence that 1984 was the last year during which Moody's upgraded more corporate ratings than it downgraded."
Daniel Scotto, a senior vice president and director of high-grade credit research at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said that declines in interest rates over the last year had allowed many companies to reduce what he called their "imbedded cost of interest," their total interest expenses, by a full percentage point.
 
'Could Be a Tough Sell'
 "That is pretty significant," Mr. Scotto added. "I can't remember a year when companies were able to do as much" to pare interest costs.
With most analysts forecasting that the economy will remain weak through the first half of 1992 and that the Fed is unlikely to show any inclination to tighten monetary policy and push up rates until a recovery is fully under way, the chances seem good that corporations will have additional opportunities to reduce their interest expenses.
But Mr. Richert and others questioned whether sufficient demand would surface for securities carrying much lower coupons than those they replace.
"Potential buyers might ask why they would want a security with a 5 percent or 6 percent coupon, instead of the 8 percent or 9 percent they have now," he said. "Potentially, it could be a tough sell."
At least some money managers disagreed.
"Yields on AAA corporate bonds are still 50 basis points to 75 basis points over Treasuries, which looks pretty attractive," said Marshall B. Front, president of Stein, Roe & Farnham Inc. Investment Counsel, managers of about $15 billion worth of fixed-income securities. "That means that even at these levels, we will be buying some corporates, as well as some Treasuries."
With bond markets around the world effectively on holiday through Wednesday, the chances seem slim that a burst of new corporate debt will be seen this week. But investment bankers said they expected the pace to quicken once work resumed in earnest around Jan. 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (67%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (65%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (65%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (65%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (65%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (65%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (65%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (65%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (65%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (65%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (65%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MCM INC (67%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (65%); POLAROID CORP (65%); DUKE ENERGY INDIANA INC (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CORPORATE DEBT (91%); CORPORATE BONDS (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1021 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Japan May Buy More U.S. Parts

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 29

 BODY:
Japan's five leading automobile manufacturers plan further increases in their purchases of American parts, an economic newspaper, Nihon Keizai, reported today.
The newspaper said the companies would announce the specifics of their plan during President Bush's visit Jan. 7-10. 
 Under Secretary of State Robert Zoellick told Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa in Tokyo last week that trade in automobiles and parts would be a main topic of discussion during Mr. Bush's visit.
Without citing its sources, Nihon Keizai said Toyota, Nissan, Mazda, Mitsubishi and Honda would announce parts purchases from the United States of 30 to 40 percent more than they agreed to in November.
The companies' offices were closed today. The newspaper said the Ministry of International Trade and Industry is demanding that the auto makers increase purchases of American parts by 50 percent.
The plans announced by the five auto makers last month had called for raising purchases of American-made auto parts to $16.5 billion a year by fiscal 1994, which ends March 31, 1995. Of that, $2.5 billion worth of parts were to be used in Japan and the rest at the Japanese companies' plants in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

COMPANY: NIHON KEIZAI (NEWSPAPER)

ORGANIZATION: NIHON KEIZAI (NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (89%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1022 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Business Optimism Off

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 27

 BODY:
Business confidence declined in December, according to a monthly poll by the United States Chamber of Commerce.
The chamber said its business confidence index slumped to 39.3 in December, from 45.4 in October and 55.9 in August. 
 In the poll of 8,044 business people, 45.3 percent said they expected the economy to shrink in the next six months, while just 17.6 percent said they expected the economy to expand. Another 37.1 percent saw no change.
The December responses were substantially more pessimistic than those in October, when 32.3 percent said the economy was likely to shrink in the next six months, and 23.6 percent saw it expanding.
In the August poll, just 25.9 percent expected the economy to contract, while another 25.9 percent predicted the nation's output of goods and services would grow.
In this month's poll, the outlook was also bearish for sales and employment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1023 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
News Events Become Biggest Television Hits

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
In 1991, no situation comedy, ensemble drama, mini-series, movie or documentary dominated American television.
Nor was the biggest thing on television this year a for-sale sign, despite incessant rumors that one or two of the networks -- specifically NBC and CBS -- would be put up for sale. 
 Instead, this was a year when the biggest thing on television was the stuff of real life, world and national events that appeared on television only because television showed up to cover them: the Persian Gulf war, the attempted Soviet coup, the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Clarence Thomas, the William Kennedy Smith trial, the resignation of Mikhail S. Gorbachev and the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
 
Not From Hollywood
 None of these events was a "television program" at all; they were not anything that anyone at a network or a Hollywood studio planned, wrote or produced.
The dominance of non-entertainment on television, several industry executives said, was at least as indicative of the changes taking place in the industry as a turnover in network ownership would have been.
"When you walked up the hall this year, the things people were talking about, the things people were watching, were the war, the hearings, the trial," said Marshall Cohen, executive vice president of research for MTV Networks.
"Nothing was made in entertainment that got people talking like that," he said. "Nothing was watched in high enough numbers to get people talking."
Part of the reason for that result, Mr. Cohen conceded, is that people now watch television in so many different ways, because of the many options they have, that it is much harder for any piece of entertainment to cross over all the divided tastes watching separate channels.
But, he added, "it's mainly a function of nothing being good enough."
What is happening to television can best be defined by broadening the category of what had impact on television this year, said David F. Poltrack, senior vice president of research for CBS. What people watched in 1991, he said, was information.
He said all forms of television connected to information enjoyed growing success, from "The Oprah Winfrey Show" to "reality shows" like NBC's "Unsolved Mysteries" and CBS's "Rescue 911," to the Cable News Network and C-SPAN.
The trend toward informational programming was predictable, Mr. Poltrack said, and reflected the changing makeup of the television audience. "As the American population ages, informational programming is what they want to see," he continued. "When people get to their late 30's or early 40's, they become more interested in news and information."
What has been happening in recent years to the television audience, he added, is that more members of the baby-boom generation, by far the largest segment of the American population, have reached this chronological turning point.
The networks have found a way to take advantage of this shift by packaging news in entertainment formats. News magazine programs, like "60 Minutes" and "20/20," had higher ratings this year than the year before.
The problem for the networks is that they continue to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on entertainment programs that inevitably suffer a falloff in popularity.
At the same time, the networks must continue to cover the kind of news that the mass audience they seek finds compelling -- even though these events are often prohibitively expensive to cover.
NBC for example, has estimated that its losses on the gulf war alone totaled about $45 million as a result of canceled advertising and the costs of news coverage.
Still, Robert C. Wright, president of NBC, sees a reason for the networks to embrace the 1991 trends toward informational television.
"Network television still has the advantage of having 100 percent coverage of the country," Mr. Wright said. "CNN doesn't have that. That still makes the difference between ourselves and cable really meaningful. We just haven't yet figured out how to arrange the economics."
Mr. Wright added: "It used to be that at the beginning of the year you would budget five, six, ten million dollars for crisis coverage. Everybody in the company would hope the year would go by and nothing would happen so we wouldn't have to spend that money. Now all of a sudden, we look for those moments to happen."
Mr. Wright acknowledged there was some incongruity between this high interest in covering news and the painful cutbacks at the network news divisions. "We've underestimated the excitement that can surround these events," he said, "and we've held back our efforts to enhance that excitement. That's something we have to change."
 
Financing News Coverage
 The other thing that has to change, he and Mr. Poltrack said, is the method of financing news coverage.
"We have to educate the advertisers," Mr. Poltrack said. Almost none of the network coverage of the gulf war included advertising, because of skittishness about potentially graphic war scenes. "I think some of the advertisers now realize they were foolish," he added.
Mr. Wright and Mr. Poltrack agree that the main way such a change is likely to take place is through shifting more and more regular news programs to prime time. Instead of interrupting entertainment programs to cover news, the networks are likely to try to steer their coverage into some established news program.
"I expect we'll see at least one network news program in prime time every night of the week," Mr Poltrack said. "'We're almost there now. As the population continues to age, I'm sure we're going to see more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Television this year was dominated by news events, from Mikhail S. Gorbachev's downfall to Anita F. Hill's dramatic testimony against Clarence Thomas before his Supreme Court confirmation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MTV NETWORKS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DRAMA FILMS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL CLARENCE THOMAS (69%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1024 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2046 words

HEADLINE: Arts Groups, Too, Struggle With Recession

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
As the recession tightens its grip, arts organizations across the country have found themselves jilted by the Government and by corporate and private patrons on which they had come to depend.
Consequently, productions are being canceled, exhibition hours reduced and staffs cut to the bone. A few companies -- among them the six-year-old Los Angeles Theater Center, a $6 million, four-theater operation -- have gone out of business. An even more prominent institution, the Detroit Institute of Arts, has threatened to close if the state of Michigan imposes any more substantial cuts beyond the 41 percent reduction it has already made in the subsidy that provides most of the museum's operating funds. 
 In the scramble for survival, many nonprofit cultural groups are shedding their old ways of doing business and adopting new practices -- some welcome, others not. Interviews with artists, arts managers and government officials across the country indicate that the financial squeeze has forced cultural organizations to become better managed and far more sophisticated in dealing with their audiences. But they have also become more conservative in their choice of programs and artists.
This process has given rise to a new cadre of influential arts consultants, hired by nonprofit groups to help them raise money and manage their organizations in these difficult times. Much like media consultants in politics, these arts consultants, like Arts Market Consulting Inc. of Marion, Mass., and the Kreisberg Group Ltd. of New York City, have become a new center of influence, wielding wide power behind the scenes in shaping the direction arts groups take all across the country.
"The day of the impresario flying around with a cape and buying a dozen camels for 'Aida' is over," said Arnold N. Breman, executive and artistic director of the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts in West Palm Beach, Fla. "Today, that guy says, 'Gee, camels cost $4,000 apiece. Let's do it with lighting.' "
 
More Safety, Less Stretching
 One way to pinch pennies is to play it safe. That approach makes life tougher than ever for newcomers and curtails the presentation of avant-garde or "difficult" work.
"You can still do the Mendelssohn Violin Concerto, but God forbid you do the Alban Berg," said David Levenson, managing director of the Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College. "I have to stretch my audience less than I'd like. Instead of two avant-garde dance groups, I present one."
Mr. Breman said: "Can you see Sol Hurok presenting 'A Great Night for the Irish'? If he were alive today, it could happen."
Patrick Hinson, director of SoHo Booking, a small New York agency that handles eight avant-garde dancers, said: "One presenter told me, 'Personally, I liked watching your dancer crawl across the floor in a rug, but I can't sell it today.' "
Symphonic soloists in the middle price range, who earn $6,000 to $15,000 a performance, are especially vulnerable to cutbacks. "Instead of paying $15,000 for a violin soloist, whose name may not mean that much outside of New York," Mr. Levenson said, "presenters say, 'why not let our own concert master do it?' "
The most dramatic example of Government cutbacks happened in Michigan, where Gov. John Engler, a conservative Republican who says he believes that the state has no business supporting the arts and is also motivated by the need to close a $1 billion gap in the state budget, abolished the state arts council in July. Governor Engler later re-established the council as a subdivision of the Department of Commerce, but with its budget cut by more than half. Several small theater groups and a dance organization were immediate casualties.
The Detroit Institute of Arts has responded to severe budget cuts by reducing its staff from 340 to 190 in the last six months. Samuel Sachs 2d, director of the museum, said last week that he and his staff had developed a contingency plan to lend pieces from the museum's permanent collection to the National Gallery in Washington, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and other museums capable of taking care of it in case Governor Engler carries out a promise to "zero fund" all state contributions to the arts and the museum is forced to close.
Arts councils are also under fire in several other states, including Missouri, where the chairman of the state's House budget committee recently announced that he would soon propose legislation to eliminate the State Arts Council, whose annual budget is $5 million.
Collectively, state arts agencies reduced their contributions to individual artists and cultural organizations from $273 million last year to $214 this year, according to a study by the National Asssembly of State Arts Agencies.
Corporations and private patrons are not making up the loss, said Joanne Hayes, president of the New York City-based American Association of Fund Raising Counsel Inc., the professional association of fund-raising consultants, because many arts organizations well schooled in applying for Government grants have not yet mastered the techniques for approaching the private sector. "It isn't like switching the style of your jacket," Ms. Hayes said. "It takes years to cultivate private patrons."
The impact of these and related losses, coupled with the dampening effect of the weak economy on ticket sales, is felt throughout the arts.
At Lincoln Center, "things are sluggish," said William W. Lockwood Jr., executive producer of programming. He added that he was apprehensive about ticket sales in 1992.
The Theater Development Fund, which maintains the discount TKTS booths in Manhattan and Brooklyn, reports having sold 8 percent fewer tickets to Off Broadway shows from July through November than in the same period last year, said Robert Callely, director of operations.
Ingrid Kidd, president of the National Association of Performing Arts Managers and Agents and president of Mainstage Management International Inc., a medium-sized theatrical agency based in Los Angeles that books family-oriented entertainment throughout the country, said an unusual number of presenters had recently canceled appearances when scheduled touring companies were virtually at their doors.
"Ordinarily," she said, "you get one or two last-minute cancellations every year because somebody forgot to deliver the advertisement to the local newspaper, but this year we've had 18 cancellations by seasoned presenters who know what they're doing. They just weren't able to sell the tickets."
 
Advice From Outside
 Many arts groups have all but put their fate in the hands of outside consultants. A year ago, the Indianapolis Opera was struggling with a $150,000 debt, subscription sales had been declining for four years, there were always plenty of empty seats in the house, and board members were wondering whether the company should expand, contract or even call it quits. It hired Arts Market Consulting, the Massachusetts group, for $30,000.
"As of today," said Durand Pope, general manager of the opera company, "we are totally out of debt, all productions are sellouts and subscriptions are up by 45 percent over last season."
Old favorites like "Brigadoon" were not the answer. The company has remained faithful to the standard repertory, this season producing "Porgy and Bess," "Madama Butterfly," "Cosi Fan Tutte" and, next month, "Lucia di Lammermoor" starring Lisa Saffer, who scored a triumph in "Die Soldaten" this season at the New York City Opera.
The consultants "helped us analyze what we were doing wrong," Mr. Pope said. "We learned, for example, that our audiences had what we joked about as 'fear of opera.' They were afraid someone might ask them in the intermission what they thought, and they wouldn't know what to say. So we began to educate our audiences with our newsletter, among other things. Also, we learned we weren't doing well with young singles, so we started Opera Lite, which is an event for singles at which we serve hors d'oeuvres and have a cash bar. A bunch of men from the chorus put on skits explaining surtitles, how you dress for the opera and opera plots. We're demystifying opera."
Louise Stevens, president of Arts Market Consulting, said her company's business had increased by about 20 percent this year. A former music critic for The Chicago Daily News and The Milwaukee Journal as well as a former arts manager, Mrs. Stevens works with a small staff of 4 to 12 people, depending on the assignment. Her specialty, she said, is strategic planning and market research, tasks that entail setting goals for performing-arts groups and locating potential subscribers and supporters within a community.
Another arts consultant, Louisa Kreisberg, a former director of publicity of the Museum of Modern Art who is now president of the Kreisberg Group Ltd., said that just as her company played a role in most of the major museum expansions of the late 1980's, her guidance was being sought in what she called "the payback decade."
The Kreisberg Group offers services ranging from advice on a per-diem basis to planning two-year campaigns. It becomes involved with membership, development, strategic planning, advertising and public relations. "I think of myself as an institutional strategist," Ms. Kreisberg said.
 
Learning New Strategies
 Some Government arts agencies are trying to help their clients seek new sources of income and to provide services as well as grant money.
"Many cultural organizations don't realize that the African-American community is highly philanthropic, greatly disproportionate to their income, in the fields of religion and education," said Luis R. Cancel, New York City's new Commissioner of Cultural Affairs. "We'd like to help arts organizations tap into that community, as well as to the Latino, Asian and other ethnic communities."
Adolfo V. Nodal, general manager of the Los Angeles Department of Cultural Affairs, said his agency was starting a development division to help arts groups raise money and was beginning to offer technical assistance as well. "We're focusing beyond the money thing, since that's now limited," he said.
Some arts groups, while plainly suffering from the recession, are also finding ways to take advantage of it. "Because of the weak real-estate market in New York, we were able to renegotiate the loan on our East 19th Street space to save about $20,000 a year," said Norton Owen, development director of the Limon Dance Company, "and now we're actually talking with other dance companies about jointly buying a building at a bargain price in this market."
The importance of good management, and the perils of its opposite, have also become manifest in recent months. The Los Angeles Theater Center collapsed in early autumn not only because of the recession, but also because of poor management, Mr. Nodal said. "We put $24 million into them over six years," he said, "but they were always in the newspaper going from one crisis to another, and people lost confidence in them."
In contrast, the Trinity Repertory Company of Providence, R.I., executed a remarkable turnabout this year. "Our subscription sales are now 70 percent ahead of last year, and that's despite the fact that Rhode Island is one of the most economically depressed states in the country," said Lynn Kelly, director of public relations for the company. "Two years ago, subscriptions had fallen to 5,500, and that's dangerously low for us. Now they're up to 9,400."
The explanation, she said, is careful management of limited resources; a new artistic director, Richard Jenkins, who shifted from the heavily avant-garde schedule of his predecessor, Anne Bogart, to a relatively mainstream choice of program, and effective promotion of the idea that subscription tickets offer patrons an inexpensive night out.
"It isn't that we're just doing light comedies," Ms. Kelly said, " 'Glass Menagerie' was a sellout, and we plan to close the season with a new play."
"We still have our problems," she continued. "We've got a half-million-dollar debt to deal with, but we have a new chairman of the board, and he's very much into exploring new sources of income. I guess you could say we're being creative."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A year ago, the Indianapolis Opera hired Arts Market Consulting Inc. to analyze its problems. Now, the opera's general manager says, it is "out of debt, all productions are sellouts and subscriptions are up." Above, Arthur Woodley and Anglia Brown in a scene from the company's "Porgy and Bess." (Denis Ryan Kelly Jr.); Louise Stevens, president of Arts Market Consulting, said her company's business had increased by about 20 percent this year. (Mike Valeri/The Standard-Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2431 MILLWORK (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BHD GROUP LTD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; PHILANTHROPY; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION); FEDERAL AID (US); RECESSION AND DEPRESSION NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); DANCE (89%); DANCERS (88%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1025 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: SIDELINES: POLITICAL FOOTBALLS;
Jersey Sports Authority Passing Hat

BYLINE: By William N. Wallace

 BODY:
Can Rutgers use a larger football stadium? Is more better?
Those are among the issues to be presented at public hearings next Monday in Trenton before the appropriations committee of the New Jersey State Senate. 
 The state's Sports and Exposition Authority is seeking the approval of a $416 million bond issue that would refinance $223 million of oustanding bonds at lower interest rates, build a convention center in Atlantic City and add 35,000 seats to Rutgers Stadium in Piscataway, N.J., which now has 23,000.
The projection is that once the Big East Conference gets going with a round-robin football schedule in 1993, the Scarlet Knights will fill those seats and need more. Games at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., where Rutgers has never drawn well, would be abandoned.
Speaking of Giants Stadium, the Sports Authority is negotiating to borrow $30 million from United Jersey Bank to purchase the 76 suites on the mezzanine level of the stadium. The authority has an option, at $25 million, to purchase those suites from a Connecticut company, Skybox Partners Limited.
The MARA family provided the financing for the suites when the stadium was built 15 years ago and subsequently sold the leases. Rentals of the suites generate about $1.3 million a year according to JOHN SAMERJAN, the director of public relations for the Sports Authority.
This may not be a propitious time to seek financing for fun and games. But the Sports Authority, said BOB MULCAHY, its president, will count on its record as a generator of revenue to convince the legislators.
According to Mulcahy it provides a billion dollars in economic activity annually plus thousands of jobs and has generated a $60 million surplus for the state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TSA (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY UNITED JERSEY BANK (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (95%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (95%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (59%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY; RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (95%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (95%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (59%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOND ISSUES (78%); BONDS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, WILLIAM N

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1026 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: PRESS;
Amid Dark Clouds of Gloom, Newspapers See Some Hope

BYLINE: By Alex S. Jones

 BODY:
FOR newspaper executives, this year has been a subject for black humor.
When several executives were asked if they could discern any good news for the newspaper business amid the current gloom, the initial response of virtually all was derisive laughter, ranging from a mordant chuckle to prolonged, acid-tinged guffaws. 
 At the end of a year that the newspaper industry considers to be the worst in half a century, positive thinking takes some effort.
"I think the worst is behind us," said Cathleen Black, president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association. That sentiment was echoed by many newspaper executives with as much hope as conviction.
But though the newspaper industry is united in grappling with a steep decline in advertising during 1991, there is no unanimity about why it happened, and what will happen when the overall economy recovers.
The majority view seems to be that the drop in newspaper advertising is partly cyclical, reflecting the downturn in the overall economy, and partly structural, reflecting a fundamental change in the advertising business in which newspapers have been the losers. These structural changes include growing competition from rivals like cable television and advertising cutbacks by big department stores because of the consolidation in the retailing industry.
Kenneth T. Berents, a media analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons Inc., a Baltimore stock brokerage, said structural problems unrelated to the recession accounted for about half of the drop in advertising.
Other newspaper executives agree that such noncyclical elements are important. But many consider structural changes to be about a third of the overall problem.
The more structural the change, the more difficult it will be for the newspaper industry to recover the lost advertising and the more resistance there will be to higher ad rates.
The good news for those who see a significant structural problem is that newspapers are moving rapidly to broaden their business on the assumption that the core daily newspaper will no longer be able to provide the profits of years past.
"The severity of the situation is making newspapers look very hard at other ways of generating revenues," Mr. Berents said. He pointed to such things as newspapers' setting up delivery systems to compete with the Postal Service and creating elaborate data bases to use in marketing.
A few maverick newspaper executives view the structural problem as a fantasy, and their view of the good news is quite different.
"I do not see evidence of structural change in our business," said W. Dean Singleton, chief executive officer of Media News Group Inc., which owns The Houston Post, The Denver Post and several other papers.
Mr. Singleton says the newspaper business is reeling because, for the first time in half a century, all three categories of newspaper advertising -- retail, national and classified -- are in decline. In previous recessions, newspapers fared reasonably well because, for instance, if help-wanted advertising was down because of an economic downturn, retailers would advertise more in order to attract wary shoppers.
Mr. Singleton argues that this recession is different, but not because of structural change.
Retailers -- especially big department stores -- have been forced to cut costs because of the huge debts created by the industry's consolidation, and the easiest cost they found to cut was advertising. But Mr. Singleton contends they still believe that newspapers are their best means of moving merchandise.
In the national advertising category, financial ads disappeared because of the 1987 stock market crash and airline ads dwindled after several airlines failed.
Classified advertising, especially in help-wanted and real estate, soared during the 1980's boom and have now fallen just as precipitously.
Mr. Singleton said the good news was that all three ad categories would one day return to newspapers. The retailers are gradually getting their financial houses in order, financial ads will reappear as the economy improves, the airlines industry will eventually stabilize, houses will start to sell again and employers will start to advertise jobs.
"What I can't tell you is when it comes back," Mr. Singleton said.
What passes as good news in the industry these days indicates just how glum the year has been.
James K. Batten, chairman of Knight-Ridder Inc., one of the nation's largest newspaper groups and owner of The Miami Herald and The Philadelphia Inquirer, has been especially concerned about the decline in newspaper readership over the last two decades.
Citing research done by Philip E. Meyer at the School of Journalism and Mass Communication at the University of North Carolina, Mr. Batten noted that about 73 percent of the population read a newspaper every day in 1967. Since then, the percentage dropped about one percentage point a year, to 50.6 percent in 1988.
Mr. Batten said the good news was that since 1988 newspaper readership had been rebounding, reaching 51.5 percent this year.
But searching for hopeful signs does little to change the fundamental realization within the industry that newspapers as a business property have lost a significant portion of their value in the last year or two.
Gerald D. Reilly, a newspaper broker based in Greenwich, Conn., said the typical 25,000-circulation daily in a good market would have sold for about $20 million in 1989. He estimates that same paper would bring $10 million to $13 million today, if a buyer could be found.
Mr. Reilly predicted that newspaper values would eventually rebound, though probably not to previous levels any time soon. He said he based his optimism in part on conversations with more than 50 newspaper executives after he was hired by the Gannett Company to try to find a buyer for The Arkansas Gazette before it was closed in October.
No one was willing to buy the paper, Mr. Riley said.
But he added, "Everyone I polled said, 'We are lean, trim, efficient and, when it turns around, the improvement will come straight down to the bottom line.' "

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (55%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (67%); DENVER POST CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (55%); DENVER, CO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRINT ADVERTISING (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); RETAILERS (66%); SECURITIES BROKERS (62%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S CATHLEEN BLACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1027 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN BUSINESS: 1991;
Russell L. Ray: An Era Ends In Aviation

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
Shortly after Russell L. Ray Jr. took over as president and chief executive of Pan American World Airways in September he acknowledged that reshaping the carrier into a smaller airline whose flights were mostly to Latin America would be a daunting task.
Yet the executive rolled up his sleeves and began to hold a series of huddles with Delta executives, who offered assistance; labor union leaders, and creditors, who began to offer some support. 
 But there were two key groups of people who did not pledge support: travel agents, who began to book away from Pan Am, and travelers, many of whom turned to other airlines.
And if that were not enough, the Delta executives later decided they had thrown enough money into the bleeding carrier and Pan Am was forced to shut down Dec. 4, putting 10,000 people out of work.
It was a tumultuous year for Pan Am. In January, its parent company, the Pan Am Corporation filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. In July, Pan Am agreed to sell its European routes, planes, Frankfurt operations and the shuttle to Delta. That was the beginning of the end.
By the time Mr. Ray assumed control of the carrier little could be done to save it. And while he and most of the staff in New York had moved to a hangar at Miami International Airport to plan a new carrier. Instead they ended up organizing an orderly shutdown.
Pan Am, which was founded in 1927, was the third big United States airlines to stop flying in 1991. Eastern Airlines ceased flying in January and Midway Airlines closed in November.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russell L. Ray (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (67%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (67%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (94%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (67%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (67%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); PARENT COMPANIES (68%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1028 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: CHRONICLE

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
Now that Christmas has passed, here is something to look forward to in the New Year: a film festival entitled "It Can't Happen Here: Films of the Great Depression." Thirty movies, some made during the Depression, others made years later, some familiar, some obscure, will be shown by the Film Society of Lincoln Center from Jan. 10 through Feb. 19 at the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street. SAYRE MAXFIELD, program associate with the society, had the idea for the festival about a year ago when it was her turn to suggest books for a literary group to which she belongs. "I came up with two books of that era that couldn't have been more different from one another and that led to me think maybe there were different kinds of depression movies, comedies as well as serious ones."
She took the idea for a series to RICHARD PENA, program director, and they began collecting titles. "We came up with lots that I had never heard of," Ms. Maxfield said. "For example, 'Gabriel Over the White House,' which was produced by William Randolph Hearst. Walter Huston plays a president who declares martial law and takes over the Government in ways that Franklin Delano Roosevelt never dreamed of. He decides that the rest of the world must disarm, so he calls in all war debts and rules the world." 
 Ms. Maxfield said that although some of the films on the agenda were unquestionably depressing, she found reality worse. "What depressed me far more was watching newsreels about Herbert Hoover," she said. "In many of the movies there is a solution in the end.
"We wanted to start this series on Oct. 29, the day the stock market crashed 62 years ago, but the theater was not open then. As it turned out, as we get deeper and deeper into recession, I guess this is a good time to open."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHRONICLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GREAT DEPRESSION (1930'S); FESTIVALS GREAT DEPRESSION (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FILM (90%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE RANDOLPH APPERSON HEARST (55%); FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1029 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Europe, Fearful

BYLINE: By DIANE CAMPER

 BODY:
"I can't even count the number of conferences on immigration I've been to in the last few months," said an international consultant on migration issues. "There's a lot of talk about the subject, but nothing much is being done about it."
The speaker was one of about 45 people at a recent conference on "Immigration Policies in the Developed World," convened in England by the Ditchley Foundations, which have sponsored Anglo-American conferences for 30 years. The participants were Western officials, demographic experts, academics and journalists. They were encouraged to speak openly on the understanding that their remarks would not be attributed. 
 What emerged was fear. Not fear of the racism of young neo-Nazis who have attacked immigrants in Germany. Not fear of the hateful anti-immigrant rhetoric spouted by right-wing politicians like Jean-Marie Le Pen in France. Among the European participants, there was fear of being overwhelmed by "strangers at the gate."
Among the other participants, particularly from the U.S., Canada and Australia, which are used to accepting and assimilating different groups of people, there was a strong sense that Europe has to do more than just talk about and try to control "the problem."
No one knows exactly how extensive the flow of migrants will be. But the panic arises from concern that the numbers will be uncontrollable, and that the newcomers will represent deep differences of race, culture and religion, particularly Islam.
Those fears cloud the response to who the "strangers" might be. Economic migrants, who are traditionally subject to immigration controls, are lumped together with refugees fleeing political persecution. It is refugees who have the greatest claim on humanitarian impulses from richer societies.
As one United Nations official noted, most of the future refugees are likely to be fleeing generalized violence, not individual persecution. That may call for broader regional responses to supplement the efforts of individual countries to give sanctuary to individual asylum seekers. But thus far, Europe's response has been stingy: tighter border controls and stricter visa requirements.
Philip Rudge, general secretary of the European Consultation on Refugees and Exiles, who was not a conference participant, wonders whether the new European community is "creating an economic giant, but a human rights dwarf."
Demography frightens Europeans still more. One British scholar predicts that in the next decade the population of Africa will double to 1.2 billion, raising the prospect of a mass of starving people heading north. An American professor suggested that Europe's reaction might be different if the economies of the developed countries were more stable. Why let in immigrant workers when there are some 12 million unemployed in Europe?
After three days, there were no concrete solutions but some worthwhile suggestions. One U.S. Government official urged European countries to stop talking about "the problem and try to start managing the issue." That would include developing coherent and flexible migration policies, particularly for likely new categories of asylum seekers. Also discussed were regional containment of disputes and establishing protection for some persecuted people within their own borders.
Mostly, perhaps, Europe and other developed countries need a greater sense of positive urgency. As the United Nations official noted, it is the rich and powerful nations that, ultimately, set the international agenda. "If you are not moved to do it out of a spirit of decency, then do it for self-preservation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION IMMIGRATION (94%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); RACE & RACISM (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); RELIGION (64%); STARVATION (63%); 

PERSON: CAMPER, DIANE JEAN-MARIE LE PEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1030 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Office Pool, 1992

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE; Anthony Lewis is on vacation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
"Mikhail Gorbachev will be ousted by Yeltsin-Sobchak-Shevardnadze reformers following public revulsion after a bloody crackdown" was the prediction made in this space last year.
Never mind that I recanted under pressure of television lights, or foolishly dismissed Norman Schwarzkopf as Ethelred the Unready; in the Nostradamus dodge, you remember only the time you were right. 
 Be your own pundit; astound your friends; time for the inimical, though much imitated, 18th Annual Office Pool.
1. The Nobel Peace Prize goes to (a) de Klerk and Mandela of South Africa; (b) Talabani or Barzani of Kurdistan (not to be confused with the new Kyrgyzstan); (c) Wei Jingsheng, the world's foremost dissident, still imprisoned in China; (d) James Baker for showing Arabs and Israelis that good corridors make good offices.
2. The U.S. economy at the end of 1992 will see (a) real growth under 2 percent with the Dow Jones industrials double-dipping below 3,000; (b) real growth over 4 percent with the D.J.I. over 4,000; (c) 3 percent growth as per consensus, Dow middling about 3,300, and prime interest rate headed back up to 3 percent.
3. The first foreign leader to pass from history's stage will be (a) Cuba's Castro; (b) Britain's Major; (c) Iraq's Saddam; (d) Libya's Qaddafi.
4. The most dramatic moment in the U.S. political conventions will come when (a) Jesse Jackson undermines Douglas Wilder with his ringing nomination of Tom Harkin; (b) George McGovern causes unending anguish at the Republican Convention by nominating Pat Buchanan; (c) Dan Quayle loyally refuses to dump his unpopular running mate; (d) Richard Nixon receives a welcome-back ovation.
5. The Russian leader who will be Time's Man of the Year is (a) Newsweek's Yeltsin, who will be laughing at those fainthearts who doubted the wisdom of free markets; (b) Vice President Rutskoi, conservative who will take over after the onset of free-market food riots; (c) Leningrad Mayor Sobchak, who will carry reform's banner if Yeltsin loses heart; (d) Gorbachev again, who will also appear in Nixon's "comeback box" at the Republican Convention.
6. Sleeper best seller of the year will be (a) Michael Crichton's Japan-bashing novel, "Rising Sun"; (b) Gay Talese's family memoir, "Unto the Son"; (c) Martin and Susan Tolchin's controversial "Selling Our Security"; (d) Steven Weinberg's mind-stretching "Dreams of the Final Theory."
7. Freedom will overwhelm authoritarianism next in (a) Iraq; (b) Singapore; (c) China; (d) North Korea.
8. The use of force will be universally deplored when (a) India takes out the Pakistan bomb facility; (b) Israel removes Saddam in delayed repayment for the Scuds; (c) the U.S. finds Qaddafi's tent with a smarter bomb; (d) Iraq attempts the final solution to the Kurdish problem.
9. America will be proudest of herself for (a) establishing a "Capitalists' Corps" to show former Soviet republics how to prosper; (b) repudiating the nativist resentment against immigrants; (c) developing an acceptable middle ground on the abortion issue; (d) leading the world into astonishing breakthroughs in neuroscience and genetics.
10. Scandal of the year will be (a) B.C.C.I.-Lavoro investigators turn up the political connections; (b) the revelations from the K.G.B. and Stasi files involving Western politicians; (c) sex and politics at a high and low level; (d) corruption in the Bush Administration.
11. Gov. Bill Clinton's running-mate will be (a) Bob Kerrey, who will never tell another joke; (b) Sam Nunn, for foreign-policy ballast; (c) Jay Rockefeller, to trumpet the health-care theme; (d) Al Gore, in payment for stopping the last-minute Cuomo movement.
12. Election results: (a) Bush in a 60 percent landslide, Republicans gain majority in Senate; (b) Democratic upset with decisive one-party Government for the 90's; (c) respectable win for Bush, but Democrats narrowly retain Congress; (d) squeaker for Bush, Demos gain in Congress, political paralysis in store.
13. Unpredictable mind-boggler of the year will be (a) U.S. military action in October; (b) GATT collapses,trade war breaks out; (c) Germany flexes muscles, takes over Europe; (d) terrorists get a nuclear bomb; (e) China convulses, goes democratic.
My picks are 1a, 2b, 3b, 4d, 5a, 6c, 7c, 8a, 9 all (my pools, my rules), 10b, 11a, 12c, 13e. By playing now you earn the right to hoot at the pundit next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (77%); CUBA (76%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (77%); CUBA (76%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY TWO; FORECASTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); RIOTS (73%); PRIME RATES (73%); BRITISH MONARCHS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); STOCK INDEXES (52%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM RICHARD NIXON (53%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1031 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 2; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Theater in Review

BYLINE: By Stephen Holden

 BODY:

Reno Once Removed
The Public
Anspacher Theater
425 Lafayette Street
Manhattan
 
Conceived, written and performed by Reno; directed by Evan Yionoulis; original music by Mike Yionoulis; lighting by Dan Kotlowitz. Presented by I.P.A. Presents and the New York Shakespeare Festival, JoAnne Akalaitis, artistic director; Jason Steven Cohen, producing director; Rosemarie Tichler, associate artistic director.
Among performance artists who have emerged from the East Village in the last decade, Reno may be the most physically uninhibited. Her arms flailing, her jaw thrust out, her eyes darting with mischief, she spins around the stage in her new show like a perpetual motion machine. Squirming around the floor while trying to find shade from an imaginary bonsai tree or demonstrating how she wrings out and saves her paper towels to protect the environment, Reno triumphantly joins a classic slapstick tradition. 
 "Reno Once Removed," her one-woman show, had its premiere in the summer at Alice Tully Hall, where it was one of the hits of Lincoln Center's Serious Fun festival. Spruced up with some new material, its timing sharpened by the director Evan Yionoulis, it is tighter and funnier in its return engagement at the Anspacher.
Early in the 90-minute intermissionless show, Reno, who suggests a more compact, kinetic Bette Midler, accurately describes herself as "an entertainer passing as an artist." Several things, however, set her above and apart from mainstream stand-up comedy. One is her rough-and-tumble physicality. Another is her outspoken antiestablishment political stance. She lets the Republicans have it with both barrels smoking.
Reno is wonderful discussing the abuse of the word "denial," which she calls "the upper-class version of lying." In a funny spiel about the economy, she imagines America as a "pyramid scheme" that she traces back to Columbus's discovery of America. "Of course, there were 850,000 people here," she observes. "This country was born in denial."
And there is much more that is just as blunt in its polemics and scarily funny in its evocation of an overall moral bankruptcy.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 31, 1991, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture yesterday with a theater review of "Reno Once Removed" was published in error. It showed Mary Shultz in "Mad Forest" at the Perry Street Theater.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reno in her new performance show at the Anspacher Theater of the Public in lower Manhattan. (Martha Swope)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RENO ONCE REMOVED (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN STEVEN A COHEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1032 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Decline in Interest Rates Gives Retirees the Jitters

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOCA RATON, Fla., Dec. 26

 BODY:
Any time David Schiller looks back to the early 1980's, he fondly recalls earning as much as 16 percent interest on the money he was then depositing in the bank. Those were the days, he said, when he could afford to dream of a worry-free retirement in some sunny clime.
Mr. Schiller is indeed retired now, and he and his wife, Ruth, own an apartment here. But the 66-year-old New York City native also finds himself working for the minimum wage as a security guard at the entrance to Century Village, a retirement community where he lives, and worrying about the rapid drop in interest rates that has cut drastically into his income. 
 "Even if you have $100,000 in the bank and you were getting $700 a month before, now you are only getting $400 on that same investment," Mr. Schiller, who was a program analyst at Morgan Guaranty Trust before moving to Florida five years ago, said as he waved cars past his checkpoint. "For people looking to their investments to supplement Social Security or a pension, that's a big loss in your income that you can only make up by going back to work."
 
Worried About Rates
 What alarms Mr. Schiller and other retirees here is the prospect that additional drops in their income may lie ahead. Millions of small investors will go to their banks on Jan. 2 to redeem certificates of deposit and bonds, only to find that interest rates have dropped to their lowest level in 27 years, thanks to the Federal Reserve's decision last week to reduce the interest rate it charges on loans to banks by a full percentage point, to 3.5 percent. The surprisingly big cut in the discount rate was seen as part of a broad effort to stimulate borrowing and perk up the economy.
The dramatic decline of interest rates over the last 18 months has affected virtually all Americans in one way or another. But economists agree that the elderly, many of whom live on fixed incomes, have been made especially vulnerable, a sentiment echoed in conversations with more than a score of retirees who have settled in pensioners' havens in South Florida.
"This is paradise here, but I have to tell you that I am worried," said Rella Feigelman, a retired data processor from Commack, L.I., who moved here with her husband, Irving, a former optician, to a retirement community called Whisper Walk two years ago.
"We are working people who worked very hard and saved very hard, and now we find out that we are going to have less than we thought we would have. At the same time, health-care costs, taxes and everything else is still going up. My husband tells me not to worry, but I do."
Few people would favor returning to the sky-high interest rates of 1980 and the 12.5 percent inflation rate that accompanied them, but interest rates are now half of what they were less than two years ago, and it is hard to know where they are headed next.
 
'Just About Get Along'
 Of course, many retirees are likely to feel little or no impact from the decline in interest rates. Around the country, there are large numbers of retirees who lived from paycheck to paycheck during their working years and never accumulated the kind of nest egg that would allow them the luxury of living off their interest in retirement.
"I don't have that many assets anyway, so I don't think it will have much of an effect on me," said Edith Jaffe, an 82-year-old widow who lives in Miami Beach and works at a senior citizen's center. "I don't get a pension and the only C.D.s I have are a pair of small ones of $1,000 each, so between Social Security and what I earn at my job, I just about get along."
For many others, whatever interest they earned on their investments has traditionally provided them with their only margin of security and comfort. Deprived of that cushion, they must now scramble to avoid joining the ranks of the elderly poor.
"It would be nice if rates just leveled off and didn't fluctuate so much," said Milton Mathias, who owned a dress manufacturing company in Manhattan's garment district before retiring. "It's hard to plan in this kind of environment."
Florida, whose population of 13.5 million people includes a higher percentage of people 60 years of age or older than any other state, is full of hundreds of thousands of middle-class retirees who thought they were set for life when they sold their homes in the Northeast and Midwest at the peak of the 1980's real-estate boom and moved here. Now, they are being forced to reassess their finances and their priorities.
"The price of a new car, even with a recession, is not going down," said Bill Nerenberg, a 70-year-old accountant originally from Philadelphia. "If the interest you are earning suddenly drops from $10,000 a year to $4,000, you're going to think twice about making a purchase like that, and will probably put it off for another year if you can."
The odd thing about the current economic situation, Mr. Nerenberg added, is that "the Government would like very much for people like us to spend," but by pushing interest rates down, the Federal Government "has curtailed our ability to spend, which only deepens the problem of the recession."
The downturn in interest rates has forced many retirees who live off their investments to gradually give up the small pleasures they once took for granted and to spend more time at home in an effort to stay within their reduced means.
"I used to bowl, play contract bridge, go to dances and eat out a lot," said an 87-year-old man who refused to be quoted by name as he stood in front of his home at Tallowwood, a trailer park south of here. Saying he retired to Florida in 1972 after a career on Wall Street, the man said he did not "have the income I used to have from my investments, so I have had to tighten my belt."
Having learned the hard way that investing in C.D.'s or buying stock does not necessarily guarantee financial stability, retirees whose knowledge of financial matters never extended much beyond individual retirement accounts now find themselves considering tax deferred annuities and more exotic instruments that promise to cushion them from recent fluctuations of the financial markets.
But the prospect of moving into that world, many retirees say, is a bit daunting.
"You can get a little more if you are willing to take a risk," said Albert Lorenz, a 75-year-old former car salesman who lives at Deerfield Lakes, a mobile home development for the elderly near here. "But at our age, people are cautious and want security. They are afraid to put their money in the stock market, much less the riskier things like junk bonds."
Many retirees say they know they can earn higher interest rates by investing in C.D.'s with long periods of maturity, up to five years. But they say they are reluctant to make commitments of that sort, fearing that they may have to tap their savings for a major operation, expensive drugs or some other emergency, like helping a son or daughter who has lost a job.
"Everybody knows somebody who is dipping into principal," said Lou Marloe, a former advertising salesman originally from Framingham, Mass. "It's something everybody wants to avoid, but there are a lot of people out there who just can't afford to reinvest."
Retirees say they know that politicians and economists are predicting that both the recession and the low interest rates will eventually end. But they also recognize they cannot be sure they will live to see that day.
"A football game has four quarters, and I'm in overtime, so I just play it day by day," said Mr. Lorenz, explaining that his annuity will run out early in 1992. "That's all I can do. I hope that things don't get any worse, but I am afraid they will."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday about the effect of the decline in interest rates on retired people reversed the identities of the two men shown seated together. Bill Nerenberg was on the right and Sol Eldman on the left.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Nerenberg, A 70-year-old accountant originally from Philadelphia. (Shown with Sol Eldman, right.) -- "The price of a new car, even with a recession, is not going down. If the interest you are earning suddenly drops from $10,000 a year to $4,000, you're going to think twice about making a purchase like that."; David Schiller, Retired program analyst from New York City. -- "Even if you have $100,000 in the bank and you were getting $700 a month before, now you are only getting $400 on that same investment." (Photographs by Gerald Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT; INTEREST (MONEY) RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AGING (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (55%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1033 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 30, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
At 100, Public Relations' Pioneer Criticizes Some of His Heirs

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Edward L. Bernays recently turned 100 years old, giving him the most protracted view of the discipline that he is credited with creating in the 1920's. But he is not happy with it now.
"Public relations today is horrible," he said in an interview at his home here. "Any dope, any nitwit, any idiot can call him or herself a public relations practitioner." 
 "A couple of weeks ago, a young woman called me to ask for advice about her career," he said. "She said she was in public relations. I asked her what she did. She said she gave out circulars in Harvard Square."
He bristled at her misuse of the term "public relations."
Mr. Bernays has spent a lifetime pushing public relations as a "social science" rather than a playing field for press agents. He says he persuaded H. L. Mencken to include his definition of public relations in a book on the American language in 1920. The definition: "a vocation applied by a social scientist who advises a client or employer on the social attitudes and actions to take to win the support of the public upon whom the viability of the client or employer depends."
Mr. Bernays pioneered the concept of using exhaustive market research in public relations, said Chester Burger, a retired public relations consultant. "He always had great research to back him," Mr. Burger said.
 
Still Active at 100
 Even at 100, Mr. Bernays said, he still consults with clients (and still maintains a career-long policy of not identifying clients). And he is writing a second volume of his memoirs, entitled "My First Hundred Years." The first volume, "Biography of an Idea," was published in 1965.
"Maybe the greatest contribution he has made is that when most people are sitting back in rocking chairs, he is still actively working and challenging people to think," said Joseph Epley, president of the Public Relations Society of America.
Mr. Bernays, a nephew of Sigmund Freud, was born in Vienna in 1891 and came to the United States a year later. He tried to enlist in the military during World War I, but was rejected because of his vision.
Then, he heard about President Woodrow Wilson's Office of War Information. "It was the first time the U.S. used ideas as weapons of war," he recalled. The office hired him to create propaganda campaigns.
"The Italians had fought a battle at a place called Piabe, and we were going to send a new ship to their aid," he said. "I suggested we call the ship the Piabe. We had Enrico Caruso break a bottle of champagne at the launch and then had photographs of the event made into postcards. We sent the postcards to the front lines and showered them on the Germans to show them that we were helping the Italians win the war."
After the war, Mr. Bernays realized that "if this could be used for war, it can be used for peace."
So his career began. In 1919, Mr. Bernays said, he opened the first public relations consulting firm. In 1923, he said, he taught the first public relations course at New York University, wrote the first book on the subject and coined the term "public relations counsel."
In a cramped office of a rambling Victorian home, just a few blocks from Harvard Square, Mr. Bernays's desk is piled with correspondence, memorabilia and citations. Outside his office, the walls are filled with photographs of Mr. Bernays with Herbert Hoover, Eleanor Roosevelt, Dwight Eisenhower, Enrico Caruso and other notables. And there is a photograph of Freud, his mother's brother, inscribed with best wishes to Mr. Bernays and Doris Fleischman on their wedding day in 1922.
Mr. Bernays said he gave advice to Calvin Coolidge on how to lighten up his dour image, persuaded American women to smoke in public and helped a bacon producer convince Americans that a heavy breakfast was preferable to a light one.
When asked to pick his most successful campaign, Mr. Bernays does not hesitate. "It was the late 1940's and E. L. Bransome, the president of Mack Truck, asked for help in getting more roads paved," Mr. Bernays recounted. He persuaded Mr. Bransome to hold a news conference andcall on Congress to build a road across the country.
Mr. Bernays said the news conference pushed Congress to approve money for Route 66 and ultimately led to the Interstate highways.
"One single idea changed the economics of a country," he said.
 
Foibles of the Industry
 Mr. Bernays enjoys the fuss that has been made about his 100th birthday (it was Nov. 22) and uses the attention to speak out about the foibles of public relations today.
"Some people just use public relations as a euphemism for press agentry," he declared. "A firm sends articles or press releases to newspapers to win favor for a client and it usually ends up in the trash. It's not only not good P.R.; it intensifies the antagonism toward the product. I'm pleased to be known as the father of public relations when the field is taken seriously, like law or architecture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward L. Bernays, who is considered the father of public relations (Jim Bourg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LANGUAGE ACADEMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); WORLD WAR I (65%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN; BERNAYS, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1991



1034 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Patterns

BYLINE: By Woody Hochswender

 BODY:

 
Notes from All Over
 Just because it was a so-so year in fashion doesn't mean it wasn't a great year in history.
An empire crumbled, a bloody tyrant was humbled. The world seemed breathless. There was no time to shop. 
 The fall of Communism dwarfed in significance any drop in hemlines. Fashion took a back seat to the catwalk of world events.
In December, Boris N. Yeltsin's daughter was shown on Cable News Network wearing a black Lycra miniskirt. It was not just a typical Western style worn by a Russian, but a very hot, contemporary look right off the streets of New York. If that doesn't speak eloquently about a new Russian revolution, nothing does.
Export was said to be a new priority on Seventh Avenue, one of the most provincial of American businesses. Oscar de la Renta held two fashion shows in Paris in 1991. The rest of the industry just talked.
The cheap-is-chic phenomenon was not confined to the United States. Conspicuous consumption was no longer de rigueur in Japan, the last best hope of luxury goods conglomerates. The December newletter of Isetan, a Japanese retailer, referred to the "post-bubble economy" and described strategies the company was using to entice reluctant consumers to spend more at Christmas.
Indeed, one could discern a sea change away from throw-away consumerism. Sophisticated people, the ones who usually keep pace with fashion, began to get more sophisticated about the fate of the planet. In this sense, fashionable people have become truly worldy, in contrast to the ersatz worldliness of the traditional fashion poseur.
 
No More Ephemeral Images
 Interestingly, the fashion companies themselves seem attuned to these developments.
Here is a passage from a recent press release sent out by Giorgio Armani : "There are two concepts which the tumultuous beginning of the 90's has eliminated: 'the ephemeral' and 'the image.' In the case of the ephemeral, it is a euphoric, sometimes superficial attitude that tends to be a little excessive toward all consumption. By image, we mean everything that is overly excessive and strident, annihilating content, matter and language."
The text went on to extol the virtues of Mr. Armani's men's wear collection for spring 1992, including the "normality" of the colors and the "normality" of the shapes. It added, "Today, the new success is catching people's eye with normality."
A toast, then, to normality.
 
Street Style
 Street style continued to be at least as important as runway fashion style. And young men, not women, emerged as the fashion leaders of the moment.
Many people began wearing baseball hats with the letter "X." Just when it seemed only a matter of time before some enterprising milliner would come out with a cap bearing the letter "Y," one learned that this style was a gesture of respect for the late Malcolm X.
Another style among young men was wearing their trousers extremely baggy and slung halfway down the hips. Department store executives confessed to be somewhat baffled by the trend. Teen-agers would come in and be measured for, say, a 32-inch waist, then insist on buying 34- or 36-inch trousers. The extra width allowed for them to be alarmingly loose and low.
This style is said to derive from prisons, where inmates are not permitted to wear belts.
Rap stars picked it up, and now it has become mainstream. Marky Mark, a rap singer, took the style to an extreme, appearing in a music video showing at least six inches of his white B.V.D.'s. It made those Button Your Fly T-shirts seem almost discreet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; WOMEN FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); RETAILERS (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); MEN (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (67%); 

PERSON: HOCHSWENDER, WOODY OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1035 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Soviet States Allow Separate Armies

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINSK, Belarus, Dec. 30

 BODY:
After a long day of disputes, the former Soviet republics agreed today that individual members of their new Commonwealth of Independent States could form separate armies, though strategic weapons would remain under a single command.
The decision to let the states decide on whether to build their own forces or to remain part of a common defense was agreed to in a bargaining session of sharp differences and private compromise that let each of the 11 former republics decide its own military fate. 
 Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova plan to build separate armies, while the other former republics will share in the commonwealth joint defense force, today's announcement said.
 
Freeing of Prices
 In the economic sphere, Ukraine and Belarus said they would go ahead with their own "price liberalizations" after Ukraine failed to get Russia to postpone the price changes scheduled to begin on Thursday. Ukraine had argued that it was not prepared for the drastic price increases that are expected to occur on a wide range of goods. But as a result of today's discussions, Ukraine will begin a new price plan on Jan. 10 and Belarus on Jan. 3, a day after Russia's plan starts.
Various details of the military agreement remain unclear, particularly the question of how the former republics might share units and equipment of the huge Soviet military force.
"It's not easy to take apart one structure and build new ones," said the Belarus President, Stanislav Shushkevich, after the leaders of the fledgling commonwealth put in a full day of wrangling and, ultimately, some tenuous compromising. In all, the leaders signed 15 documents on issues ranging from uses of space to distribution of foreign food.
But they reached only temporary agreement on the two major coordinating bodies of the commonwealth, the Council of Heads of State and the Council of Heads of Government.
Thus far, in little more than a month of effort, the former republics have agreed mainly on the broad strokes of their commonwealth, with critical details on the military and other controversies still remaining for later meetings.
The Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, stressed that today's gathering reaffirmed the original agreement to have the four members of the commonwealth with long-range nuclear weapons operate in concert on nuclear policy, with the launch decision ultimately in the hands of Russia and the central military command.
The precise technical details for this new procedure should be worked out in "five or six days," Mr. Yeltsin said.
In response to Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney's stated concern that the Soviet missile fleet continues to be updated and aimed at American targets, Mr. Yeltsin declared, "Everything agreed to in the strategic arms treaties will be respected by Russia and the commonwealth states."
 
Strategy on Economy
 In their efforts to succeed the collapsed Soviet Union, the former republics agreed their remaining differences are many, particularly on a common strategy for dealing with the desperate economy that is the main legacy of Communism.
As economic anxiety rose across the former republics, the commonwealth members announced they would go ahead with a previous agreement to conduct their separate free-market plans in a common "ruble zone" based on the battered currency of Russia.
But President Leonid M. Kravchuk of Ukraine, where nationalist mistrust of the commonwealth is greatest, was openly skeptical.
"The ruble zone can turn into a fiction," he said at a commonwealth press conference tonight. "We could find ourselves in the ruble zone without any rubles," he added, complaining that Russia, which controls the ruble printing presses, had not been shipping enough currency to cover rising expenses in other republics.
 
Shortages of Rubles
 As a result of Mr. Kravchuk's complaints, Mr. Yeltsin said that he would see to it that no ruble shortages occur, particularly as consumer prices are freed Thursday as part of Russia's free-market strategy.
In response to fears that the freeing of prices will dislocate the economies of the rest of the commonwealth, Ukraine officials said today that price rises in their state, the commonwealth's second most populous, would follow on Jan. 10. Kiev also announced that it would double wages for state employees on that date, paying part of the increase in newly issued coupons.
The commonwealth leaders apparently put their main effort today into the question of how to use and share in the vast Soviet military establishment.
Ukraine continues to insist on the right to take over sizable union military units and their equipment. The agreements announced tonight did not specifically settle that question, nor the issue of a common border defense.
The republic leaders did announce agreement, however, on setting up a structure that would put defense policy under a single command controlled jointly by a commonwealth council with representatives of the former republics and advisers from their respective Defense Ministries.
As with many other points of announced resolution, however, it was not immediately clear how this might work in practice.
 
Threat to Resign
 At one point in the day, the chief of the central military command, Marshal Yevgeny I. Shaposhnikov reportedly threatened to resign in the face of a confusion of authority that he foresaw. In the end, his appointment was extended for two months.
"It was not a simple agreement on the armed forces," Mr. Yeltsin commented, confirming considerable differences through the day. "Nevertheless we managed to find common language," that, he said, "Marshal Shaposhnikov now joined in supporting."
"The military issue was most complicated for all of us," said Mr. Yeltsin. He said, however, that "we would be blowing the same old flute" if the leaders had dealt with their disputes in the old monolithic ways of Communism.
"Sovereignty is not something up for bargain or for sale," said Mr. Kravchuk, who repeatedly stressed that the commonwealth's interests are secondary to Ukrainian independence.
 
Stress on Sovereignty
 "It's the Commonwealth of Independent States," he said, stressing independence. "Decisions interfering in internal policies are not accepted by us."
Journalists who were allowed briefly into the meeting room said the debates were often stormy, especially when they dealt with banking and prices. The meeting lasted several hours longer than planned, with almost an hour spent on setting the agenda.
An attempt to discuss fighting in Nagorno-Karabakh, a region of Azerbaijan populated largely by Armenians, was resisted by Azerbaijan as "interference in its internal affairs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, right, and President Stanislav Shushkevich of Belarus, left, talking to reporters yesterday in Minsk, where the leaders of eleven former Soviet republics met. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); BELARUS (96%); UKRAINE (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MINSK, BELARUS (53%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC); RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC); BYELORUSSIA; UKRAINE; AZERBAIJAN (USSR); MOLDOVA; MOLDAVIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); BELARUS (96%); UKRAINE (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MINSK, BELARUS (53%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ARMIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); TRENDS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); POLITICS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) DICK CHENEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1036 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Fatal Alcohol Abuse Persists On Campus, but Fewer Drink

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BLACKSBURG, Va.

 BODY:
Drinking among college students has declined over the past decade, studies show, as society has grown less tolerant of alcohol. But that decline masks a trend that is proving both stubborn and lethal: the persistence of abusive or "binge" drinking.
"More students are drinking abusively," said Thomas G. Goodale, vice president for student affairs at Virginia Polytechnic Institue here. "I've never seen it like I've seen it in the last 10 years, with the last five years worse than the first five." 
 Although the number of college students who said they drank declined to 80 percent this year from 89 percent in 1981, according to a survey by the University of Florida, another survey for the Federal Government by the University of Michigan suggests that abusive drinking among college students has held relatively steady, declining only three percentage points in the same period. The survey also found that such abusive drinking had declined among 19- to 22-year-olds who were not in college.
 
Grappling With Problem
 At Virginia Tech and Boston College, from Rutgers to Stanford, administrators are grappling with the problem. And at some campuses, there has clearly been an increase in abusive drinking, which is defined by the National Institute of Drug Abuse and other specialists as consuming five or more drinks at one sitting.
At Oklahoma State University in Stillwater, the student health center treats an average of 10 cases of severe alcohol poisoning a semester, up from six a decade ago. At Gritman Medical Center in Moscow, Idaho, which serves the University of Idaho, minor to severe cases of alcohol poisoning among students have risen to an average of eight a week, double the number a decade ago. And at Montgomery Regional Hospital, near Virginia Tech, the same range of cases involving students have increased to five to seven a week from two to three a week in the early 1980's, people who work in the emergency room said.
Generations of college students have drunk to excess, reveling in their newfound freedom from parental reins. But college deans, alcohol rehabilitation specialists and students themselves say many of the factors that lead to abusive drinking have intensified in recent years.
"The 21 drinking age law is the most unenforced law in the country," said Arthur Sandeen, vice president of student affairs at the University of Florida in Gainesville. "Frankly, it's a nightmare."
College officials acknowledge that they could use the help of parents to deal with hard-drinking students. But they say Federal privacy laws bar them from divulging anything about a student's record to his parents, including a destructive drinking problem, without the student's permission.
Students themselves suggest that attempts to curtail alcohol consumption are futile because they will find ways to bypass rules and laws. "If they make the rules harder, then kids will try harder to break them," said Lara Deming, a 19-year-old Virginia Tech sophomore, who added that despite her age she could find alcohol whenever she wanted it. "I don't think they can do anything to keep kids from drinking."
 
Increase in Pressure Seen
 Students and administrators also say today's students are under more peer and academic pressure than in the past. "They have a lot more to deal with than I did," said Candyce Reynolds, a 34-year-old counselor at Portland State University in Oregon who attended college in the 1970's. "I think younger people are disenfranchised. They face many more difficulties, including exposure to alcohol, risky sexual behavior and a staggering economy."
Isaac and Alease Parsons had warned their son Wayne, a 19-year-old sophomore at Virginia Tech, about the perils of alcohol. Wayne, the youngest of three brothers and two sisters, had even been lectured by an older brother.
But when Wayne went to a party with about 30 other people at a friend's apartment one night at the end of September, he gulped a large quantity of beer, then in 15 minutes drank an oversized tumbler of about 32 ounces of tequila, friends told the police.
About an hour later, he collapsed. An emergency medical crew was called but could not revive him. He died in the hospital at 6 the next morning, his distraught and unbelieving parents at his side. The cause of death was alcohol poisoning.
"I rubbed his hand and talked to him, but I never could get a response," said his father, Isaac Parsons, his voice breaking. "I'm crying all the time. I can't get it off my mind."
For all the Parsonses knew, their son had heeded their advice on drinking. "He was very good about doing what he was told," said Mr. Parsons, who added that once he even offered Wayne a drink, which his son declined. "He never gave us a minute's trouble, no back talk. We had no indication that he drank."
That is why the Parsonses are still finding it so hard to come to terms with the death of their son, a sophomore electrical engineering major who was a solid B student with a bright mind and a knack for computers.
"Why would he do something like this?" Mr. Parsons asked, sobbing. "He had a good ability and mind about things. I was constantly telling him not to let outsiders influence him. Was he coaxed?"
The Parsons say they believe that other students at the party cajoled their son into the drinking that killed him because to have done it on his own would have been out of character. To support that they cited statements by students at the party to the Blacksburg police and university officials who investigated the incident that their son got the alcohol at the party.
 
Family Starts Campaign
 "To a certain degree, I blame the other students," Mr. Parsons said. "They could have taken the alcohol away from him."
Unlike the Parsonses, Mike and Sandra Brodwater of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, knew their son Alan drank and sometimes drank excessively. But they thought they had helped him get over it.
Alan, Mr. Brodwater said, was trying to improve his 3.0 grade point average to 3.4 or 3.5 and used alcohol to ease the stress. But after several conversations with his son about the dangers of drinking, Mr. Brodwater said, "I really felt that the worst was over. So when Alan, the second of four boys and a junior majoring in accounting at the University of Idaho, died at 1:10 A.M. on Nov. 1 after a bout of drinking that university officials said began at his apartment and continued at a Halloween party off campus, his parents were shocked.
"I felt absolute disbelief," Mr. Brodwater said.
"When they are in college, parents in a sense have already released them to the world," Mr. Brodwater said. "But we're all still sorting this out. It's a nightmare all parents dream about, getting that call. Except in our case it happened."
Such deaths have led some grieving families, like that of Larry K. Wooten, a 21-year-old University of Florida junior, to mount campaigns against alcohol abuse.
Mr. Wooten, a history major with a 4.0 grade average, was watching a football game with friends at a bar in Gainesville when he and an old friend challenged each other to see who could drink more.
"It was something these boys always did," said Linda Wooten, Larry's mother. "They competed through baseball, football, grades, girlfriends. Larry was going to beat Stevie's record."
And he did, drinking 23 shots of liquor, one more drink than his friend, in an hour. The other student survived, but when friends took Larry to his apartment late that night, they noticed he had passed out and that his hands and feet were turning blue. The friends called an ambulance, but he died of asphyxiation on the way to the hospital.
Their son's death prompted the Wootens to begin a drive to force the Florida Legislature to adopt tougher laws on the liability of bars and restaurants that serve liquor to people who are drunk. All states have some sort of law that places some liability on bars and restaurants, but the laws vary in their severity.
"I'm going to do everything in my power to get that law passed so that the bars are responsible," said the dead student's father, Larry G. Wooten.
 
Changes on Campuses
 The Wootens' effort is part of a scattershot approach undertaken in recent years by parents, universities, fraternities and students to try to corral a problem that Mr. Goodale of Virginia Tech says "is the one problem colleges haven't been able to get their arms around."
No single approach has emerged from those efforts, but a growing number of universities have ended the serving of alcohol on campus.
Other institutions have taken a more aggressive stand. In New Jersey, Rutgers University in 1988 established special housing at two of its five campuses for students recovering from alcohol and drug dependency. Between classes, they can attend counseling sessions without ever having to leave campus.
Driving some of the effort by colleges and universities is the 1989 Drug Free School and Campuses Act, requiring institutions to make alcohol education programs and services like counseling available to students and employees.
The possibility of lawsuits, too, continues to haunt universities, even though litigation against institutions in the 1960's dealing with a variety of wrongful deaths were won by the colleges and universities when courts ruled that the schools should not be held responsible for student behavior.
For all these efforts, college administrators and alcohol counselors say alcohol abuse will persist on campus as long as it persists in society. "No matter how much money is put behind this, the problem doesn't seem to go away," said Kelly Heryla, a chemical dependency specialist at Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
Many students agree. "Kids feel like they have to drink," said Brenda Wirsbinski, a 20-year-old junior finance major at the University of Wisconsin at Eau Claire. "They feel the pressure from other people. It's really common for incoming freshmen to go out every weekend. That's what college is about."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Brodwater, with his wife, Sandra, at home in Couer d'Alene, Idaho, thought they had helped their son, Alan, get over his excessivedrinking and "felt the worst was over." Their son died after a binge of drinking that began in his apartment and continued at a party. (Jeff Green for The New York Times); A trend of abusive drinking among college students is proving both stubborn and lethal. Linda and Larry G. Wooten, at home in Orange Park, Fla., lost their son, Larry K., who died after drinking 23 shots of liquor in an hour during a contest with a friend in Gainesville. (John Moran for The New York Times) (pg. A14)
 
Graph: "Admission of Binge Drinking" shows percentage of people 19 to 22 years old who told a surveyer that they had drunk five or more alcoholic drinks in a row at least once in the past two years from '80 to '90 (Source: National Institute on Drug Abuse) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ALCOHOL; LAW AND LEGISLATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); POISONINGS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); HEALTH CARE (71%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1037 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

 
Best December Ever For Blue-Chip Stocks
 The stock market's year-end rally accelerated, with the Dow Jones industrial average surging 62.39 points to a new record of 3,163.91. The Dow has added 530.25 points this month, or 9.3 percent, making it the best December ever. Analysts again credited low interest rates. Page D1.
 
Car Bomb Kills 20 in Beirut
 A powerful explosion caused by a car bomb ripped through a densely populated quarter of Beirut, killing 20 people and wounding 82. Page A10.
 
Is Salt Really the Villain?
 For many, too much sodium may not be the culprit in high blood pressure. The new suspect: too little calcium. Science Times, page C1.
 
Bias in Alabama Colleges
 A Federal judge said Alabama must take extensive measures to eradicate racial discrimination in its state university system. Page A12.
 
Minor Party Enters Majors
 Lenora Fulani wins election money and attention for her multimillion-dollar New Alliance Party. Page A16.
 
Money Movers Who Lost
 Top financial figures, from John Gutfreund to John Reed, had difficult times in 1991. Page D5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: LEBANON (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (90%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (91%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEBANON (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); ALABAMA, USA (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RACE & RACISM (67%); DISCRIMINATION (67%); JUDGES (67%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: JACK REED (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1038 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-10
 
SEPARATE ARMIES FOR REPUBLICS
Eleven former Soviet republics agreed that individual members of their new commonwealth could form separate armies, though strategic nuclear weapons would remain under a single command. A1
 
Rebels continued to battle troops loyal to Georgia's President. A6
 
BIRTHS DIP IN EX-COMMUNIST LANDS
Across the former Communist empire of Eastern Europe and the defunct Soviet Union, increasing numbers of women are choosing not to have children now, sending birth rates plummeting. A3
 
SAUDIS CRITICIZE MUSLIM MILITANTS
Saudi Arabia's chief religious official and a senior member of the royal family have made scathing attacks on militant religious fundamentalists who have been criticizing Government policies. A1
 
CAR BOMB KILLS 20 IN BEIRUT
A car bomb ripped through a densely populated quarter of Beirut, killing 20 people and wounding 82 in the most devastating attack since Lebanon began peace efforts a year ago after 16 years of civil war. A10
 
Two slain American hostages were buried with military honors. A10
 
ALGERIAN PARTY'S PROGRAM
Algeria's Islamic Salvation Front has based its program on vague outlines of economic and social austerity but a firm determination that Islamic law will have an immediate effect on daily life. A10
 
CAMBODIAN FACTIONS MEET
After weeks of delays marked by violence and threats, the factions that have fought a 12-year-old civil war met for the first time in Cambodia and called for a United Nations peacekeeping force. A2
 
VIOLENCE ON SOUTH AFRICAN TRAINS
Soweto Journal: Commuters who travel by train to and from the segregated black townships near Johannesburg have been victims of violent attacks in the last 16 months. A4
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
RIGHTS LAW NOT RETROACTIVE
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that the new civil rights law does not apply to thousands of cases filed by people who say they suffered job discrimination before the measure was signed by the President. A1
 
BIAS IN ALABAMA COLLEGES
A Federal judge has found that vestiges of discrimination remain in Alabama's state university system, and he ordered extensive remedies to bring the historically black universities more on a par with predominantly white institutions. A12
 
DRINKING AND DYING ON CAMPUS
Drinking alcohol is becoming less common on college campuses, but abusing alcohol in binges is on the rise, officials say. They say the practice, sometimes fatal, is encouraged by peer pressure, social worries and even the increase in the legal drinking age. A1
 
KERREY SELLS HIS WAR STORY
Bob Kerrey recounts his journey from cocky Navy commando to wounded Vietnam veteran to show voters he understands pain, struggle and what it takes to improve the plight of the people. But he's encountering the pitfalls of running a charisma-based race for President. A16
 
PERSISTENCE PAYS OFF
When Lenora Fulani captured a major share of Federal matching money she also garnered attention for her New Alliance Party, a highly unusual political movement. A16
 
FINES IN CHICKEN-PLANT FIRE
After a fire that killed 25 people, North Carolina fined owners of a chicken-processing plant $808,150 for "willful" safety violations. Survivors called the amount a slap on the wrist. A12
 
ACCUSATIONS ABOUT IMPLANTS
The leading maker of silicone breast implants has been making false statements on its consumer hotline, Federal officials said. A12
 
Working men don ostrich feathers and march. A12
 
METROPOLITAN Digest, B1
 
DISPUTE OVER PLASTICS BAN
As Suffolk County begins its ban on the use of plastic plates, cups and take-out containers by food stores and restaurants, the landmark law is causing self-doubt among some environmentalists. A1
 
AFTERMATH OF FATAL CRUSH
As many as 5,000 tickets may have been sold for the celebrity basketball game at City College at which eight people died, city officials say. A1
 
LIMITING FARE INCREASE
Republican State Senators have offered to help limit an increase in the New York City transit fare to $1.25, several officials say. A1
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
Science Times C1-8
Research on high blood pressure challenges role of salt. C1
For clues to Antarctica's health, ask a penguin. C1
In a publishing coup, books in 'unwritten' languages. C1
Studies of cell death trace a complex dance. C3
Peripherals C2
Q&A C4
Personal Computers C5
Science Watch C6
 
Arts/Entertainment C9-21
Distilling a play's essence for Lincoln Center theater posters. C9
Music: "Ghosts of Versailles" as anti-opera. C9
Classical Music in Review C12
Photography: Work from Walker Evans. C9
Word and Image: "Wise Children," a novel of tall tales by Angela Carter. C16
 
Fashion Page A19
In 1991, a mixture of caution and elan.
Patterns
By Design
 
Obituaries A18
Larry Josephs, writer
 
Sports B7-13
Baseball: Yankees' hour of power draws near. B9
Basketball: Nets top Magic. B7
Arizona beats Rutgers. B8
Bulls beat Pacers. B8
Tarkanian sues. B13
Columns: Berkow on 1991. B7
On Pro Football B9
On Baseball B9
TV Sports B11
Football: Coslet packs up. B7
Miami on its best behavior. B7
Health is issue for Parcells. B9
Florida free and clear. B10
Bowl preview. B10
Huskies happy with depth at quarterback. B11
B.Y.U. and Iowa tie in Holiday Bowl. B11
Sports People. B11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
Editorials A20
Wrong diplomacy on Japan.
No way to raise the fare.
The carnage at City College.
Topics: Better than bubbly.
Letters A20
A. M. Rosenthal: The age of contempt. A21
Russell Baker: A hunger for enemies. A21
Allan Gurganus: Relax, it's almost over. A21

GRAPHIC: Photo: Car bomb leaves 20 dead and 82 wounded in Beirut. A10 (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: LEBANON (93%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GEORGIA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEBANON (93%); ALGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GEORGIA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); FAMILY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); FUNDAMENTALISM (70%); TRAINS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (60%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (60%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (50%); 

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1039 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

Markets
The stock market's record-breaking rally accelerated, with the Dow Jones industrial average surging 62.39 points to a high of 3,163.91. In December, the Dow has soared 269.23 points, or 9.3 percent, topping the December 1924 record of 8.4 percent. [D1.] 
 Long-term interest rates moved lower with the Treasury's 30-year bond offered at a price to yield 7.44 percent. [D12.]
The dollar closed slightly higher against major European currencies in slow trading. It fell against the yen. [D13.]
Wheat and soybean futures prices fell sharply amid growing fears that food would not be sent the former Soviet republics. [D13.]
 
Companies
Zale will close 400 of its nearly 2,000 jewelry stores, costing 2,500 jobs. It will halt payments to banks, bondholders and suppliers pending a rebuilding plan. [D1.]
Owens-Corning Fiberglas named a General Electric executive, Glen H. Hiner, to succeed its chairman and chief executive, Max O. Weber, who has cancer. [D4.]
Banc One will buy Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado in a deal valued at about $380 million.[D4.]
Daily News executives told its unions and creditors that it was in no immediate danger of running out of money. [B3.]
 
The Economy
The owners of 1585 Broadway have filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code after three years in which they signed only one tenant for their 42-story theater-district tower. [D1.]
Janet L. Norwood is retiring after 13 1/2 years as head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, with a near-legendary reputation for non-partisanship. If an informed public is essential for democracy, she says, solid data are essential for an informed public. [D1.]
Thousands who say they suffered job discrimination cannot get relief under the new civil rights law, the E.E.O.C. ruled. [A1.]
Consumer confidence remained steady in December, after tumbling for two months, the Conference Board said. [D2.]
 
International
Japan has unveiled steps to spur economic growth at home and drive up the value of the yen. [A6.]
 
Today's Columns
The Soviet economy lives on, with Boris Yeltsin at the helm. Now, how much control Russia should share with the 11 other republics is in dispute. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene [D2.]
Carolco Pictures wants to buy back bonds at 65 cents on the dollar to reduce debt. Despite the year's biggest office hit, "Terminator 2: Judgment Day," it is struggling. Market Place. [D6.]
United States Merchant Marine Academy graduates have rather bright job prospects. Elizabeth M. Fowler: Careers. [D6.]
K Mart and Toys "R" Us have hired agencies for specialized minority marketing. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D16.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (69%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (50%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: OWENS CORNING (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); AFFILIATED BANKSHARES OF COLORADO (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); FUTURES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DISCRIMINATION (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (62%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%); 

PERSON: MAX O WEBER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1040 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Bush Avoids Criticism of Japanese

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Dec. 30

 BODY:
President Bush, on a brief stopover here on the way to Australia, where he is beginning a four-nation Pacific region trip, was asked today if he agreed with a comment by Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher that the Japanese were partly responsible for the American recession.
He replied obliquely: "We need to get more access to more markets abroad. I think we will." 
 Asked if he thought the drop today in Japan's discount rate -- to 4.5 percent from 5 percent -- was a gesture to him before his visit Jan. 7-10, Mr. Bush was again oblique.
"I think they realize that growth is a good way for the world economy to go," the President said, "and that was a very important step."
Mr. Bush's Treasury Secretary, Nicholas F. Brady, talked about interest rates on Sunday with the Japanese Finance Minister, Tsutomu Hata.
Of that conversation and the rate cut, Mr. Bush said simply: "It's encouraging."
Mr. Mosbacher was pressed in a television interview on Sunday on whether the Japanese were responsible for the American recession, whether it was "made in Japan," as Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, had said.
"Not totally, no," Mr. Mosbacher said on the NBC news program "Meet the Press."
Asked whether this meant that the Japanese were partly responsible, he said: "I would say they are exacerbating the problem" by not allowing in American imports that would produce jobs at home. Not all the comments here, however, were about economics or were so circumspect.
Reporters asked Barbara Bush what she was planning for New Year's Eve in Sydney, Australia.
"I'm going to go hang around bars," she said, but then added, "Seriously, same thing I do every New Year's Eve with George Bush -- go to bed early."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TRAVEL, PERSONAL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN DINGELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1041 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Lover's Rage Is Tied To 3 Deaths on L.I.

DATELINE: VALLEY STREAM, L.I., Dec. 30

 BODY:
An unemployed printer shot and killed the father and brother of a woman who had left him a few days before, and then fatally shot himself in the chest, the police said today.
About 10:15 P.M. Sunday, the police said, the printer, Dennis Carney, brandishing a shotgun, kicked in the front door of a house at 29 Bayview Avenue here, searching for Doreen Ferrante, who had just ended a nine-year relationship with him. 
 In the kitchen he found her father, Dominick, a 59-year-old retired New York City correction officer visiting for the holidays from Fort Myers, Fla., and shot him in the abdomen, the police said.
When Miss Ferrante's brother, John, a 28-year-old New York City court officer, ran out of a bedroom and down a hallway, he was shot in the chest. The police said Mr. Carney turned his shotgun on himself in the living room.
Detective Sgt. William Cocks of the Nassau County homicide squad said that Miss Ferrante, a court officer in Brooklyn Criminal Court, and Mr. Carney had lived together for nine years, and had a 6-year-old daughter.
"He was told a day or so ago that she was leaving him because of verbal and physical abuse," Sergeant Cocks said. At the time of the shootings, neither Miss Ferrante nor her daughter were in the Bayview Avenue house, where her brother lived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORT MYERS MIRACLE (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS SHOOTINGS (94%); HOMICIDE (78%); 

PERSON: FERRANTE, DOREEN; CARNEY, DENNIS

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1042 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN FINANCE: NEWSMAKERS IN 1991;
A Few Words About the Year

 BODY:
"At this stage, we are well on the path of actually achieving the type of goals which we've set out to achieve: a solid economic recovery with the unemployment rate moving down to its lowest sustainable long-term rate, with growth at or close to its maximum long-term sustainable pace, with inflation wholly under control."
Alan Greenspan testifying in July before a House Banking subcomittee on the state of the economy.
"The upturn in business activity that began earlier this year clearly has faltered."
Mr. Greenspan testifying in December before the House Ways and Means Committee on the state of the economy.
"We've been hit hard; there's no doubt of that. It would have been hard to think of a worse atmosphere to bring up a banking bill."
Edward Yingling, chief lobbyist of the American Bankers Association, discussing Congress's decision not to enact a measure overhauling the banking system.
"The failure to report is, in my view, inexplicable and inexcusable."
Warren E. Buffett, the interim chairman of Salomon Brothers Inc., discussing John H. Gutfreund's failure to inform the Government about illegal bidding.
"The culture of the bank is criminal."
Robin Leigh-Pemberton, governor of the Bank of England, explaining why regulators seized the Bank of Credit and Commerce International in July.
 
 "I'm looking for disciplined people, realistic people, people who are not afraid to fail."
Kathy Birk, a branch manager for Dean Witter Reynolds, on hiring.
"To be competitive in the 90's, you've got to have a set of skills that are different from those that were required to be successful in the 70's and 80's."
Jon C. Madonna, KPMG Peat Marwick's chairman, on the firm's decision to lay off 300 partners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (68%); BANK OF CREDIT & COMMERCE GHANA LTD (67%); KPMG LLP (65%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1043 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Minor Candidate's Fund-Raising Success Turns Spotlight on Party

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
When Lenora B. Fulani, the Presidential candidate of the New Alliance Party, qualified last week for more Federal matching money than any other candidate except President Bush and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, she may have done more than surprise almost everyone in politics.
She may finally have focused more than passing attention on a small political movement that has managed over 25 years to turn itself into a complex multimillion-dollar enterprise despite accusations that it operates like a cult and is anti-Semitic. 
 Aside from Ms. Fulani's numerous campaigns for political office, New Alliance and groups affiliated with it support local political campaigns, psychotherapy groups, a lobbying operation in Washington and a publishing arm whose books and magazines support Louis Farrakhan of the Nation of Islam, the Rev. Al Sharpton and the Government of Libya.
 
Actions Defended
 Many other leftist groups and even New Alliance's Presidential candidate in 1984, Dennis Serrette, now disassociated from the party, have labeled the party a disruptive organization in which members take orders from its founder, Fred Newman.
These accusations are dismissed by Mr. Newman and Ms. Fulani, who say that their fund-raising success comes from the commitment of volunteers who believe in the goals of what the party describes as a black-led, pro-gay, pro-socialist, multiracial progressive movement.
Last week, Ms. Fulani, a 41-year-old developmental psychologist, qualified to receive $624,497 in matching Federal money on the strength of her fund-raising effort so far. Of the others who have announced their candidacies for President in 1992, only Mr. Bush, who qualified to receive $2.6 million, and Senator Harkin, who qualified for $1.075 million, did better.
In rare instances, other minor party candidates have received matching funds, most notably Lyndon LaRouche, who in the course of three Presidential campaigns in the 80's received a total of more than $1 million. Citing a 1988 conviction on fraud charges and fund-raising abuses, the Federal Election Commission this month voted to deny him money for the 1992 campaign.
Under the Federal program, candidates receive dollar-for-dollar matching money of up to $250 per contribution if they are able to raise at least $5,000 in 20 states. There will be periodic opportunities for candidates to qualify for more matching funds, and Ms. Fulani hopes to go back for more.
Her press secretary, Madelyn Chapman, said the party's success in raising money for Ms. Fulani reflected the work of perhaps 200 volunteers who collected 40,000 contributions, mainly on street corners and by knocking on doors, particularly in California and New York City.
Political fund raising is but one of many income-generating efforts involving New Alliance and related organizations. In an interview last month, Mr. Newman said the combined efforts produced millions of dollars a year, much of which is spent on services like legal help, advertising, printing and public relations that are provided by organizations started by party members. The organizations operate out of an office suite on West 57th Street in Manhattan and a downtown condominium loft.
 
Sponsor of Cultural Events
 Among the organizations is a Congressional lobbying organization, the Rainbow Lobby. It raised $765,329 in 1988, making it one of the 15 largest Congressional lobbyists that year.
Another New Alliance-related group, the Community Literacy Research Project, sponsors cultural activities that include a teen-age talent show that is put together by a private organization owned by Mr. Newman and Mr. Sharpton. Many activities, including plays, art exhibits, visits by Libyan dignitaries and shows by female impersonators, are conducted in the downtown loft space. Mr. Newman said a therapy center in the loft complex conducts group sessions there..
When Ms. Fulani ran for President in 1988, she collected more than $900,000 in Federal matching funds. Ms. Chapman said much of the money in the current campaign would be spent on travel and room and board for campaign workers and, she hoped, for an expanded advertising campaign.
According to filings with the Federal Election Commission, between July 1 and Sept. 30 the campaign spent $68,478 on services provided by New Alliance-related organizations.
Ms. Fulani, who in addition to her third-party campaign for President has entered the Democratic primary in New Hampshire, said yesterday that the donations were "a loud statement by the people of this country for a broader range of candidates and viewpoints." In a telephone interview yesterday she said health care, housing, improving the economy and opening elections to more viewpoints would be issues in her campaign, but she did not offer specific programs.
The Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith issued a report a year ago that concluded that the party had "the trappings of a cult: one-man leadership and authority figure in Fred Newman; a small, devoted following; a wide variety of 'front groups' that spread its message; an ability to raise money successfully, and a private agenda not readily evident from the party's public positions."
Mr. Newman dismissed the accusations as "absurd." Mr. Newman, who is Jewish, said his group is anti-Zionist but not anti-Semitic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lenora B. Fulani, a developmental psychologist who is the Presidential candidate of the New Alliance Party, is eligible to receive more than $600,000 in Federal money to finance her campaign. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW ALLIANCE PARTY NATION OF ISLAM (56%); NATION OF ISLAM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ALLIANCE PARTY NATION OF ISLAM (56%); NATION OF ISLAM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;LIBYA UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FINANCES; ANTI-SEMITISM POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); PUBLISHING (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (61%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (54%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: FULANI, LENORA B; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HARKIN, TOM (SEN); GOTTLIEB, MARTIN; NEWMAN, FRED; SHARPTON, AL (REV); FARRAKHAN, LOUIS TOM HARKIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL SHARPTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1044 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Zale Jewelers Will Close 400 Outlets

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The Zale Corporation, a Dallas-based jewelry retailer, has become an early victim of the recession and the dismal holiday selling season. It said yesterday that it would close 400 of its nearly 2,000 stores and halt all payments to banks, bondholders and suppliers while it devised a plan to rebuild its faltering business.
About 2,500 employees, or 20 percent of Zale's work force, are likely to lose their jobs as part of the closings. Zale has stores throughout the country, and in addition to those operating under the Zale's name, it owns the Bailey Banks & Biddle, Gordon's and Corrigan's jewelry chains. It was not clear yesterday, however, how many stores in each chain would be closed. 
 A year that Zale described as "one of the worst retailing years in recent history" forced the company to take the radical steps to halt its downturn. The retailer has been buffeted by the sharp decline in jewelry sales during the recession while it has struggled to manage interest payments on about $850 million in debt.
Preliminary third-quarter results announced yesterday showed that sales at Zale and Peoples Jewellers Ltd. in Toronto, which owns 47.5 percent of Zale as a result of a leveraged buyout in 1986, dropped by about 10 percent, compared with the similar period last year. The results in the 1991 period largely reflect holiday sales. Zale did not report a profit figure.
Swarovski International Holding A.G., a Swiss crystal company, also owns 47.5 percent of the retailer.
Zale, which had sales of $1.3 billion last year and a loss of $64.1 million, said it would not make a $52 million interest payment on outstanding bonds, which is due on Thursday.
David Glatstein of Barre & Company, a Dallas bond brokerage that holds some of the bonds and has also sold more than $50 million of them, recently threatened to file an involuntary bankruptcy petition against Zale if it failed to make the payments.
"We just received the information, and are trying to digest what the information means, whether we should be more lenient in light of the announcement or not," Mr. Glatstein said yesterday.
Analysts said Zale had little choice but to restructure its operations. Several high-yield bond analysts have recommended selling the company's bonds, particularly after Zale reported that sales for its second quarter, which ended on Sept. 30, dropped by 22 percent from the period a year earlier, and that the company had a loss of $105.6 million for the first six months of its fiscal year.
Although the prices of Zale bonds dropped yesterday, the company's announcement did not incite a flurry of trading. Traders said the market was probably waiting to hear the company's further restructuring plans. The company's debt is already deeply discounted, trading at less than 20 cents on the dollar.
 
Companywide Revamping
 Irving R. Gerstein, the chairman of Zale and Peoples, said that under the restructuring, Zale would also reduce the size and costs of its headquarters office and reorganize its divisional operations.
Analysts have faulted Zale for its acquisition of the Gordon Jewelry Corporation in 1989, saying it was not distinct enough from the company's Zale's stores and thus confused the consumer.
"We are confident that the operational plan will demonstrate substantial cost savings and improve cash flow immediately," Mr. Gerstein said.
Peoples said the restructuring would dilute its stake in Zale and have a negative effect on its net worth, which might render it unable to satisfy its bank loan agreements and pay dividends on its stock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ZLC (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (97%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ZALE CORP ZALE CORP (97%); BARRE & CO INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZALE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LAYOFFS (LABOR) RETAILERS (93%); JEWELRY STORES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JEWELRY (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BONDS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); PETITIONS (61%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1045 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economic Steps: Soothing U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 30

 BODY:
In a display of fresh anxiety over its sagging economy and American trade pressures, Japan has unveiled steps in the last few days to spur economic growth at home and drive up the value of the yen in world currency markets.
The steps were seen as an attempt to defuse American anger and impatience over Japan's mounting trade surpluses before President Bush's visit Jan. 7-10. 
 In recent weeks, Japanese officials have made it clear that Tokyo will take no more than cosmetic or symbolic steps to open up specific markets, like automobiles or auto parts, to imports. Instead, what is emerging is a Japanese effort to recalibrate its economic policies to insure greater growth.
The most substantial indication of this shift by Tokyo came today when the Bank of Japan lowered the official discount rate by a half percentage point to 4 1/2 percent, the third such reduction in six months. Some expected such a cut in the coming months, but few expected it now.
 
Aimed at Economy
 The central bank's governor, Yasushi Mieno, told reporters that the rate cut was aimed solely at stimulating the Japanese economy, and not at trying to please President Bush or at matching the Federal Reserve Bank's own cut in the discount rate on Dec. 20.
Mr. Mieno said it was done now so corporations could take it into account in their financial planning. "We particularly kept in mind the fact that the period between January and March is when firms draw up their capital spending plans," he added.
The lowering of the discount rate set off a surge on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, where the Nikkei Stock average of 225 selected issues climbed 546.45 points, to 22,983.77, in a two-hour session that was curtailed because of the coming New Year's holiday.
Meanwhile, in currency markets, the yen has been surging against the dollar in line with an apparent Japanese policy to make imports cheaper and exports more expensive.
The dollar, however, finished the day in Tokyo up slightly at 125.83 yen after the lowering of the discount rate. Cutting the discount rate usually has the effect of lowering the value of the yen. That Japan ultimately wants the yen to increase in value was seen in other quiet signals sent separately to the financial community, according to financial analysts.
Some noted that the lower rates could help restore business confidence, leading to faster growth next year. That and the Government's plans for public works spending in the $570 billion budget for the next fiscal year adopted over the weekend are likely to stimulate business investment, they said, ultimately driving up the yen.
 
Way to Cut Deficit
 Many American economists say that an ever-higher yen -- its value has nearly doubled since 1985 -- is the most powerful way of reducing the American trade deficit with Japan, which was $41 billion last year.
Most analysts agreed that the discount rate cut was put into effect with the encouragement of Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa as a signal to the White House that Japan would try to stimulate its economy to help the United States out of its own recession.
Indeed both Mr. Miyazawa and his Finance Minister, Tsutomu Hata, welcomed the central bank's move, as did most corporate leaders.
"The decision will have favorable effects on the domestic economy," said Gaishi Hiraiwa, chairman of Keidanren, the most powerful of Japan's business trade associations. "The rate cut is welcome in terms of international cooperation ahead of Bush's visit."
Mr. Bush has said repeatedly that his main priority in traveling to Japan is to stimulate American exports and create new jobs. A more robust Japanese economy would be more likely to import American products.
By contrast, American economists fear that if there is a downturn in Japan, companies there may try to increase their profits by exporting more to the United States.
The Bank of Japan's move coincided with other steps by Mr. Miyazawa to stimulate the economy, also in response to American pressures. The budget, for example, relies heavily on borrowing. Mr. Miyazawa said he hoped the budget would serve as a "locomotive" to pull the rest of the global economy out of its slump.
Among the biggest spending increases in the budget is the category of capital spending on roads, bridges and other construction projects. The United States has long demanded that Japan make that a priority on the theory that it would stimulate the economy and also imports. Another big spending increase is in the area of foreign aid to poor countries -- also in line with American requests -- to fill a gap left by United States cutbacks.
One fear of all these steps is that Japan may revive the so-called bubble economy of the last few years, in which easy credit, combined with inflated real estate and stock market prices, led to a borrowing binge and inflation.
The bursting of the bubble has thrown the economy into disarray in recent months, weakening some major corporations and financial institutions, which are now expected to benefit as a result of the new stimuli. But officials sought to make clear today that the bubble economy would not return.
"The Government is committed to sustaining economic growth without fears of inflation, and it is determined to pursue an economic policy which will preclude the rekindling of the bubble economy," said Mr. Hata, the Finance Minister.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; CREDIT; RATES; PUBLIC WORKS ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R GEORGE W BUSH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1046 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
An Even-Handed Collector Of Labor Statistics Retires

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
After 13 1/2 years as head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Janet L. Norwood retires from the Government Tuesday with a fax machine presented by 325 admiring colleagues, a near-legendary reputation for nonpartisanship, and plaudits that include one senator's designation of her as a "national treasure."
If an informed public is essential for democracy, Dr. Norwood says, solid data are essential for an informed public. "You can't have a democratic society without having a good data base," she said. 
 But while Dr. Norwood, the first person to rise through the bureau's ranks to the top, is proud of her role in keeping the agency up to date, she frets about unfinished business. In particular, she bemoans the lack of the coherence in Federal data gathering that she considers necessary to help the nation meet competitive challenges in the next century.
"We have a good system, but it is becoming increasingly fragmented," Dr. Norwood said during an extended interview. "We don't have a system that really coordinates all the money that is being spent on statistics -- and most importantly, the quality of that work."
 
Speedier Data Collection
 She cited, among other new efforts, stepped-up data collection in such areas as the environment, education and law enforcement. The highway bill signed by President Bush this month authorizes $90 million to create a Bureau of Transportation Statistics, she added. These efforts are in addition to those of the long-established "Big Four" -- the Commerce Department's Census Bureau and Bureau of Economic Analysis, the Agriculture Department and the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Better coordination does not necessarily require an umbrella agency as in Canada, Mexico and some other countries, Dr. Norwood said. But she argues that the United States must at least strengthen its coordination of data gathering, using, say, Japan or Britain as a guide.
A second American failing is the collection and analysis of the figures that permit comparison with the performance of other countries, Dr. Norwood said. As a junior economist in the bureau in the 1960's she researched such things as Burmese labor law and Japanese wages. "We are not really operating internationally as effectively as we ought," she said, referring to the bureau's data-gathering. "I'm concerned about the increasing effectiveness of other countries. I worry about where we will be 10 or 15 years from now."
After a January vacation, Dr. Norwood, a Newark native who is 68 years old, will be analyzing and speaking out about such issues at the Urban Institute, a Washington research organization. She will be free from the burden of administering a Federal agency with 2,700 employees and an annual budget of $300 million.
Her successor, expected to come from outside the agency, has not yet been selected, though an advisory committee has screened candidates for the $112,100-a-year job. William G. Barron, the deputy commissioner, will take over temporarily.
Commissioner Norwood will also no longer be a fixture on Capitol Hill, where she has appeared before the Joint Econonomic Committee on the first Friday of every month to interpret the latest figures on the job market for Congress. In a city notorious for its backbiting, she is unusual in having virtually no detractors. At her 137th and final session, apparently a record, she was given perhaps the supreme compliment when Representative David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat, called her "the most difficult witness to lead" that he had ever met.
The committee's hearings are politically charged, especially in election years, as members strive to get the commissioner to agree with their partisan notions of how the economy is performing. Dr. Norwood, though a Presidential appointee, has scrupulously defended the agency's mandate to collect and provide data objectively.
Appointed commissioner by Jimmy Carter in 1979, she was reappointed by Ronald Reagan in 1983 and 1987. Although political pressures never disappear, the commissioner contends that a repeat of an attempt in the Nixon Administration to tamper with the process would probably "backfire" because of the watchfulness of the Joint Economic Committee, the news media and the Bureau of Labor Statistics itself. The committee's monthly hearings were a direct reaction to a commissioner's decision in the early 1970's to cancel, at a time of rising joblessness, what had been a regular news conference.
More recently, when Washington was debating increases in the minimum wage, the bureau handily turned aside attempts by both Republicans and Democrats to elicit policy prescriptions, limiting its role to a review of the literature.
"Frequently there are requests for us to interpret things that we feel go too far," the commissioner said. "It is important for us to say no."
Dr. Norwood's nonpartisanship is personal as well as professional. She registered as an independent ever since she began to vote after her graduation from Douglass College in New Brunswick, N.J. "I prefer to look at the issues and the people and pick out the best ones -- and not vote by party," she said.
 
Survey of Payrolls
 When asked about her legacy apart from enhancing the independence of the agency, Commissioner Norwood mentions the stress she put on building up its data-gathering skills to match the talents of its economists and on reducing the traditional tension between the two disciplines.
She also speaks of her role in developing the Employment Cost Index, vastly improving the monthly survey of company payrolls -- its respondents are now beginning to punch in their responses by telephone or speak them to a computer -- and of two major changes to improve the reliability of the Consumer Price Index.
She and her husband, Bernard, an economist and once a senior Foreign Service officer, have some rental real estate and "a very few" stocks among their investments. Their portfolio has probably suffered, she said, from the fact that they must avoid even buying certificates of deposit during the several times a month when she has sensitive, market-moving information prior to its release.
The only other person outside the Labor Department to directly receive it the day before publication is the President's chief economic adviser, Michael J. Boskin, with whom Dr. Norwood discusses the major indicators the day before their release.
Although Commissioner Norwood will be writing, lecturing and serving on corporate boards, the couple will be able for the first time to enjoy extended periods at a lakeside home in Maine.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Janet L. Norwood, who is retiring after 13 1/2 years as head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%); BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); CENSUS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (65%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; NORWOOD, JANET L (DR) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1047 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2541 words

HEADLINE: Kerrey Retells War Story in Effort to Connect With the Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
His audience could be the jobless, the elderly, high school students or business executives, but Senator Bob Kerrey always stops midway through his basic Presidential campaign speech, lowers his voice, and confides the central selling point of his campaign. 
 This is his journey from being a Navy commando during the Vietnam War, sure of his enormous physical capacity, feeling indestructable and even "a bit obnoxious," to lying helpless at the Philadelphia Naval Hospital. Mr. Kerrey recalls March 14, 1969, as if it were yesterday: he led a pre-dawn assault against an island held by the Vietcong and walked into a firefight, only to have a grenade shatter his right leg.
 "The United States of America saved my life," the Nebraska Democrat repeats to anyone who will listen. "The American people reached out to me and gave me health care, gave me educational opportunity. This campaign is a life-and-death issue to me. Make no mistake about it: we can save lives as a people."
That is the essence of how Mr. Kerrey is marketing himself as the best Democrat to send to the White House. By telling and retelling the compelling story of Vietnam, with no trace of bitterness, Mr. Kerrey hopes he will strike voters as a candidate who understands pain, understands struggle and understands what it takes to improve the plight of the people.
 
A Rough Entry
Candidate Has Yet To Be Specific
 While Mr. Kerrey's supporters remain convinced that he is the most marketable political comer in America, he has had a rough entry onto the national stage. He is in the anomalous position of being viewed as a candidate who could go all the way and yet during the autumn warm-up, he came be to be regarded as the underachiever of the field.
The signs of early trouble are all there: He had to apologize for an unseemly joke, endure bad publicity about his restaurant business and last week he overhauled his senior campaign staff.
These could be the pitfalls of running a campaign for President based on charisma.
Strip away the war record, many Democrats say, and Mr. Kerrey presents a hodgepodge of ideas with no coherent theme and few specifics. He is polished, looks good and has a war-hero record that is the envy of any politician, yet he has faced a struggle this fall to make a convincing case that he should be President. Two months after his formal announcement, the 48-year-old Medal of Honor winner still faces the task of demonstrating that he is not just another pretty face with an uplifting story.
 
Not Big on Details
 His challenge is all the more onerous because, by his own admission, Mr. Kerrey is more comfortable with sweeping generalizations than being pinned on details about making the Government work.
"One of my least favorite things is clarifying something I said," he said in an interview. Yet Mr. Kerrey seems aware that filling in the details is essential to a successful candidacy. "The real burden of running as a candidate is that when you're not well known, people can paint a picture with a fragment of information."
Setting himself apart from candidates like former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts and former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, who tend to dwell on details, Mr. Kerrey stubbornly clings to the notion that he cannot whittle down his ideas into clever phrases suitable for television "sound bites." Yet he concedes that his ideas do not always connect.
"I'm conscious that I've got a fairly complicated message and the more complicated it gets the more vague it sounds," he said. "When you're talking about fundamental change, rather than reel out 10 or 12 snappy programs, then it gets more difficult. I realize I've got to work so the audience understands who I am."
In a remarkable concession for a candidate who is basing his campaign on character, Mr. Kerrey was hard-pressed to say what should lead people to support him. "I don't assert that there is any special quality about me, in and of itself, that qualifies me to be President," he said. "What matters is the ideas, the values, the willingness to persevere toward the objective."
As Mr. Kerrey seeks to clarify his message, he is paying a price on the trail, sometimes disappointing would-be supporters.
"He's a good speaker," Danny Prats, a political science major at the University of New Hampshire, said after hearing Mr. Kerrey at a forum in Durham. "But there's little that distinguishes him from the other candidates per se, except for health care, and they're all talking about health care." Clutching his cap and gown, he went on: "I'm graduating in five days and I want someone who gives me more than ambiguity when they talk about a better job market."
 
High Expectations
 After addressing a group of unemployed people at a church in Concord, N.H., Mr. Kerrey chased down Wayne Cochran, an unemployed purchasing agent in the audience who voiced skepticism that the Senator's proposals would create jobs. But once he was face-to-face with Mr. Cochran, the candidate was reduced to Bush-speak: "Don't underestimate the importance of this restructuring thing I'm talking about."
Explaining how he would go about this, Mr. Kerrey offers the big picture: "First, we must reduce the size and cost of the Federal Government," he said. "And second, we must renew a productive investment strategy. And finally, we must establish new structures for a global marketplace which will allow the power and integrity of free markets to create a new global prosperity."
His advisers suggested that he is the victim of overblown expectations. "He came into the race as the golden boy with a sense that he was something special," said Sue Casey, who resigned last week as campaign manager after a staff shakeup. "As happens in every campaign and candidate, you have to come down with some reasonable expectations. In December, that's what happened."
Mr. Kerrey has also been held back by his own missteps. In November, unaware he was being recorded by a television microphone, he told an explicit joke about lesbians to another candidate at a political event in New Hampshire. He apologized after being attacked by homosexual and women's groups.
Another jolt late this month threatens to undermine Mr. Kerrey's efforts to portray himself as the only candidate with hands-on business experience. The Labor Department fined the restaurant chain in which he owns 35 percent for violations of labor law restrictions. Mr. Kerrey, who is chairman of the business, insisted that he has not been actively involved in its operations since he was elected Governor in 1982 and that the violations have been corrected.
 
A Compelling Record
War Record Gives A Special Status
 It Mr. Kerrey's war record, not his business, that has afforded him a special status in the political world. It is a story he seldom told before the current campaign (to be sure, it was always touted by his advisers). But adjusting to big league politics often leads candidates to newfound candor about personal tragedies, and Mr. Kerrey has been forced to sacrifice his timidity.
Michael McCurry, a senior adviser to Mr. Kerrey, said the Senator's aides prodded him to talk about a war experience that now forms the spine of his campaign. "It's delicate because you cannot run for President solely on a war record," he said. "Kerrey was trying to run on a basket of ideas that are important, but people did not see the connection between the strength of his character and the power of his ideas -- and they are connected."
Therein is the core psychology of Mr. Kerrey's campaign: he wants people to believe he is on a quest for change, a quest that is above bald political calculations. This element of his campaign has echoes of the most famous casualty of recent campaigns, Gary Hart.
The former Colorado Senator ran for President in 1984 as a candidate with "fresh ideas" but his 1988 campaign collapsed amid disclosures about his personal life. Some of Mr. Hart's former aides now work for Mr. Kerrey, and Mr. Hart said they may be because of similiarities in their messages.
"They do not see him as a traditional politician, or someone who plays the political game for his own advantage," Mr. Hart said. "He gives the impression that politics comes and goes and he can stand with or without it."
While Mr. Kerrey has taken on the Hart mantle, the policy centerpiece of his campaign is not particularly original: a universal health-care plan, including long-term care, that would be paid for largely through a payroll tax and higher levies on the wealthy. Ask him about the economy, about education, and he hammers away on his health-care theme, saying cutting the cost of private health care would allow businesses to compete more vigorously in international markets and generate more jobs at home.
 
Trouble With Business
 But Mr. Kerrey may run into trouble with his credentials on this issue. Officials with his restaurant chain, Grandmother's, say 75 to 100 of its 700 to 800 employees do not have health coverage. The company is within the law, since small businesses are not required to provide such insurance. But wage earners might well take Mr. Kerrey's call for payroll taxes as a stingy businessman's effort to avoid costs. And there is the appearance problem: Can an employer who does not insure his own employees be entrusted with creating a national health plan?
Asked his view on the morality of having employees with no health insurance, he curtly replied: "It's equally questionable if somebody sits in the United States Senate with free health care and then does not express outrage when 12 million children are living in poverty with no health care. To me, that's questionable morality."
After resisting questions about why his business did not provide health insurance for all its employees, Mr. Kerrey said: "I'm like every other small business in America. The answer is, it's unaffordable."
The consensus among professionals is that both Mr. Kerrey's message and his delivery need polishing. Some listeners detect Kennedyesque tones in his best speeches, and he can have an engaging sense of humor. But Mr. Kerrey rarely drives his audience to a rousing ovation.
 
An Unpredictable Man
Decision to Run Was a Quick One
 Mr. Kerrey's troubles connecting on a regular basis are particularly exasperating to his aides because sometimes he has produced riveting moments. In probably the most memorable exchange of the first debate of the Democratic contenders, he effectively cut off Mr. Brown, who was railing at length about special-interest donations to Congress.
In that same debate, though, Mr. Kerrey was clumsy in answering the first, most basic, question: Why did he want to be President? "I first of all made the decision with my family," he replied, "made the decision that I would like to be President of the United States. And then the next question was why. What would I do?"
Mr. Kerrey seemed to be saying that he made his decision on a whim, and figured out his issue stands only as an afterthought.
That is not too far from the truth. He delivered his announcement on Sept. 30, a month after shocking friends and advisers, who were sure he would not make the run.
"In the 15 months that I was there I did not have one conversation with him or as a group with senior staff with him, about running for President, not one," said Jeremy D. Rosner, the policy director on Mr. Kerrey's Senate staff who left in October after helping draft the Senator's announcement speech. So when the Senator told his advisers in late August that he would run, he said, "It sort of knocked the wind out of all of us, how decisive he was and how quickly he decided to get into it."
But Mr. Kerrey's snap decision is in some ways not surprising. He is an impatient, often unpredictable man. A political novice in 1982, he ran against Nebraska's Republican Governor and won in a state where most voters are Republicans. Though he was a popular Governor, Mr. Kerrey unexpectedly left office after one four-year term. He returned to politics in 1988 when he wrested a Senate seat from David K. Karnes, a Republican appointee who filled out a term after the death of Senator Edward J. Zorinsky.
Mr. Rosner and other advisers say the Senator's abrupt decision to run was partly because he was angered by what he regarded as signals from the White House this summer that Mr. Bush was willing to go along with the plotters of the coup against Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
Mr. Kerrey denies this, but he often challenges the President in what is widely viewed as Mr. Bush's strongest area, foreign policy. But Mr. Kerrey is vague about exactly what he would have done differently in dealing with, for example, the collapse of the Soviet Union. What he is offering so far is a critique of Mr. Bush without a concrete alternative.
"His foreign policy's grounded in something different from mine," Mr. Kerrey said of Mr. Bush. "I just find myself being moved by the accomplishments of the cold war to conclude that we have to continue to be strong advocates for freedom. I don't get the sense that the President sees that world out there 10 years from now dramatically transformed."
 
Relying on Hart Aides
 His late decision to run has forced him to assemble his organization on the fly, and initially, Mr. Kerrey relied heavily on top advisers to Mr. Hart. But in a move to give the campaign a lift, Mr. Kerrey last week announced a major staff shakeup. Ms. Casey, a veteran aide to Mr. Hart, resigned as campaign manager and Bill Hoppner, a close friend of the Senator's who was chief of staff under Mr. Kerrey as Governor, will remain as chairman but play less of a day-to-day role in the campaign. Another former Hart aide, Bill Shore, continues to be an important adviser.
Though Mr. Kerrey denies it, advisers said he was seeking to remedy perceptions that the campaign was floundering so he looked outside his staff and picked Tad Devine, who held senior positions in the 1988 Presidential drive of former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, to oversee his campaign.
The Kerrey campaign hopes to inherit from Mr. Hart the backing of the Hollywood "glitter money." Mr. Kerrey has aggressively sought financial support in California, where he is popular in part because of his on-again, off-again romance with the actress Debra Winger. Mr. Kerrey has also turned to his geographic base, counting on Nebraskans to donate heavily to his campaign.
The campaign will receive $570,000 in Federal matching subsidies in January, about the same amount as Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas but exceeded among Democrats only by Mr. Harkin, who will get $1.1 million. Ron Fried, Mr. Kerrey's finance director, said the campaign has collected close to $2 million.
No matter how much money he raises, no matter how compelling his biography, Mr. Kerrey must convince voters that he should be President. The man who hates to explain facts now faces what could be months of intense questioning about his proposals.
Maybe that is why he sounded almost fatalistic when he conceded something that few politicians like to admit: "In the end," he said, "it's possible that I don't catch on."

GRAPHIC: Table: "Joseph Robert Kerrey"
 
Born: Aug. 27, 1943, in Lincoln, Neb..
 
Education: Northeast High School, Lincoln; B.S., University of Nebraska, 1966.
 
Religion: Congregationalist.
 
Military Service: Navy, 1966-69.
 
Married: To Beverly Defnall in 1974; divorced in 1978.
 
Children: Benjamin, 17, and Lindsey, 15.
 
Government Positions: Governor of Nebraska, 1983-87. Senator, 1989 to present
 
Other Major Positions: 1972-82, Developer of chain of restaurants and fitness centers, 1972-82.
 
Current Job: U.S. Senator.
 
Hobbies: Jogging, watercolor painting, reading, skiing.
 
PRESIDENTIAL PROSPECTS
 
Strengths: Compelling personal story, varied experience in business and government.
 
Weaknesses: Policy views lack gripping message.
 
Strategy: Appeal as candidate of new ideas.
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (91%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (91%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NAVIES (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (72%); RESTAURANTS (50%); 

PERSON: KERREY, BOB (SEN); KERREY, BOB (SEN) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); BERKE, RICHARD L

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1048 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
2 Big Retailers Reach Out to Minorities

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
HOPING to stimulate sales among minority shoppers, two of the largest retailers, the K Mart Corporation and Toys "R" Us Inc., have hired advertising agencies that specialize in marketing to blacks or Hispanic Americans.
K Mart, the second-largest retailer, after Wal-Mart Stores Inc., has appointed Burrell Advertising Inc. in Chicago for black-oriented advertising and the Castor Advertising Corporation in New York for Hispanic-oriented advertising. Toys "R" Us, the largest toy retailer, has appointed the Mingo Group Inc. in New York for its black-oriented advertising. 
 Both retailers have aimed sales messages at minority consumers via special advertising and promotional programs, but until now such work had been done by their general-market agencies, for K Mart, the Ross Roy Group in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and for Toys "R" Us, J. Walter Thompson New York.
The hiring of minority agencies to produce and direct such marketing efforts goes beyond including members of minorities in general-market, mainstream advertising and underscores the increasing clout of black consumers, who spend an estimated $250 billion a year, and Spanish-speaking consumers, who spend about $175 billion a year.
These minorities make up a growing proportion of the overall population, and retailers anticipate that by singling out minority markets for special attention -- in the same manner in which they direct special pitches to older consumers, teen-agers or single-person households -- they might generate additional revenues amid a stalled economy.
"Each year, the importance of these markets continues to expand," said Gerald K. Habeck, K Mart's vice president of advertising, "so we felt we had to have African-American advertising directed toward the African-American community, and Hispanic advertising directed toward the Hispanic community."
That is particularly true in the wake of the disappointing holiday sales season, said Samuel J. Chisholm, the Mingo Group's president.
Retailers "look at this tough Christmas and ask, 'Where do I go from here?' " he added.
Mr. Chisholm declined to discuss specific aspects of the coming Toys "R" Us campaign, but he indicated that efforts to build "credibility and believability and trust" among black consumers would be at its heart.
K Mart's black-oriented campaign, which began earlier this month, involves print advertisements in magazines like Ebony and Essence, and radio commercials, running on black-oriented stations in markets like Chicago and Detroit. The focus is on K Mart's clothing, via a slogan, "Looking good," absent from the company's general-market ads.
That reflects a belief that to black shoppers "apparel is a little more important," said Charles H. Curry, Burrell's president. Thus, he added, it is necessary "to get the black consumer to start thinking about K Mart as a place where you can get more than just paper towels and motor oil."
One radio spot, called "All My Secrets," typifies Burrell's tack. "Check this out and don't tell anyone," a woman says in a casual, colloquial soliloquy. "I went to K Mart the other day to get a lamp and accidentally went down the wrong aisle."
"Uh-huh, the one where the clothes are," she adds. "Girl, I couldn't believe my eyes. I went out and looked at the store name again. It was K Mart, all right."
In the Hispanic campaign, television commercials, which run during programs on Spanish-language networks, show a family shopping at K Mart, unlike general-market spots, which show a husband and wife, sans children, or two teen-aged friends, sans parents.
Hector Elizalde, Castor's senior executive vice president and chief operating officer, said that reflected a tendency on the part of Hispanic consumers "to go to the store as a family unit." The spots also emphasize the brand names K Mart sells, because research has suggested Hispanic consumers value name-brand products.
Selecting minorities for pitches for cigarettes, malt liquor and other products perceived as harmful has brought outcries. There is little debate, however, over aiming ad messages at black or Hispanic audiences when the messages are no more than invitations to participate in the nation's consumption culture.
Among the country's largest retailers, several, like Sears, Roebuck & Company and the Dayton Hudson Corporation, already have on their agency rosters shops that specialize in minority marketing, as have consumer-product companies, like the Procter & Gamble Company, Maybelline and RJR Nabisco Inc.
Though "other people have had a head start," said Frederick Marx, president of Marx Layne & Company, a retail consulting firm in Farmington Hills, Mich., these new campaigns make sense, he added, given the shifts in shopper demographics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (94%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (94%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: K MART CORP; TOYS 'R' US INC; BURRELL ADVERTISING; CASTOR GS&B ADVERTISING; MINGO GROUP TOYS 'R' US INC (94%); KMART CORP (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); JWT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: K MART CORP; TOYS 'R' US INC; BURRELL ADVERTISING; CASTOR GS&B ADVERTISING; MINGO GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US) RETAILERS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); MATURE MARKET (73%); CHRISTMAS (62%); RELIGION (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1049 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: The Rally In Stocks Accelerates

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
The stock market's year-end rally accelerated yesterday as investors eagerly joined a buying rush, and several market indicators set records for the third consecutive session.
The benchmark Dow Jones industrial average surged 62.39 points, to a new high of 3,163.91. In December, the Dow has soared 269.23 points -- or 9.3 percent -- making this month the best December ever. The previous December record of 8.4 percent was set in 1924. 
 "It's a mini-stampede," said Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch. "Everybody's caught on. This is real, and it's going to go on."
 
'Running at Breakneck Speed'
 "The market is running at breakneck speed," added William Dodge, chief investment strategist for Dean Witter.
Both analysts cited the multiple, ever-extending benefits of low interest rates as the major factor in the market boom. Investors clamored to pour money into mutual funds, and fund managers to invest in the market.
Volume on the Big Board was heavy yesterday, at 245.6 million shares, and gaining issues led losing ones by 1,387 to 460. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also set a record, up 8.68 points, to 415.14, as did the Nasdaq composite, up 14.04 points, to 579.75, as smaller stocks soared as well.
The American Stock Exchange index rose 7.21 points, to 390.15, and the Russell Index of 2,000 stocks rose 3.62 points, to 187.85.
 
Collar on Program Trading
 Once the Dow rose more than 50 points, at 3:12 P.M., the New York Stock Exchange's collar on index arbitrage took effect, limiting program trading. Yet the market continued to climb apace, closing at the day's high.
Mr. Clough said he felt that a fundamental change in the market lay in the growing sense among investors that short-term interest rates -- which collapsed this year -- would remain low in the coming year as borrowing remained slack.
Besieged in recent days with telephone calls from individual investors, mutual fund executives said that the striking movement of cash into mutual funds began early this month, although some could not yet provide firm figures for the current rally.
At the Dreyfus Corporation, a major mutual fund organization, $150 million flowed into the equity funds in the first two weeks of December; by contrast, the firm registerd a net outflow of $7 million in November.
"In the first two weeks, $56 million flowed into the Dreyfus Growth Opportunity Fund alone," said Diane Coffey, director of corporate communications at Dreyfus. That figure, she said, represented 10 percent of the fund's total Nov. 30 assets of $528 million.
 
Lobby Jammed in Valley Forge
 Brian S. Mattes of the Vanguard Group in Valley Forge, Pa., said his firm had seen a similar surge of consumer interest yesterday. In the Valley Forge office, despite a light snow, the lobby was jammed with investors who came in person for most of the day, he added.
"And the call volume is just extraordinary," Mr. Mattes said. "The level is well in excess of what we saw in the crash of 1987."
Michael Hines, senior vice president of marketing for Fidelity Investments, the mutual fund giant, said that as of Dec. 27, his firm's net sales for the month were three times the November figure and the strongest for any single month since 1987.
Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company, noted that in addition to the investors who bought for want of attractive alternatives, there was a sizable movement out of short positions by traders who had expected particular stocks to drop.
"You're seeing one of the greatest short squeezes of all time," Mr. Metz said.
Another factor is that lower interest rates mean that less needs to be spent on debt service, both by companies and individuals, freeing up money. People who refinanced their home mortgages, for example, have larger disposable incomes to spend. Mr. Dodge said estimates on the amount of cash from home mortgage refinancing ranged from $20 billion to $50 billion.
"You don't need that money coming directly into the market," said Rao Chalassani, chief investment strategist at Kemper Securities Group. It increases consumer confidence, saving and spending, he noted.
 
Shifts in Portfolio Models
 On Dec. 23, Mr. Chalassani said, Kemper adjusted the models upon which it bases the breakdown of investments in stocks, bonds and cash. In Kemper's "aggressive" porfolio, he continued, a ratio of 70 percent stocks, 20 percent bonds, 10 percent cash had been adopted to replace the previous ratio of 55-20-25.
At Dean Witter, Mr. Dodge said, the asset model was shifted on Dec. 20 -- about an hour after the Fed's announcement -- to 65 percent stocks, 35 percent bonds and zero cash, from a previous 55-35-10.
"Cash is trash," Mr. Dodge said.
At Merrill Lynch, Mr. Clough said, the asset model in aggressive portfolios was shifted slightly in early December, to 65 percent stocks, 35 percent bonds and zero cash, from an earlier ratio of 65-30-5.
Mr. Metz said he was not shifting his firm's investment emphasis toward equity. "We still think that bonds are attractive," he added.
Among the most heavily traded stocks were General Electric, up 2 7/8, to 76 7/8, on 2.7 million shares traded; Philip Morris, up 3 3/8, to 80 5/8, on 2.7 million, and RJR Nabisco, up 3/8, to 11 1/8, on 4.6 million.
Other gainers included Allied-Signal, up 2 7/8, to 44 1/8; Goodyear Tire, up 3 1/2, to 53 3/4, and Procter & Gamble, up 3 3/8, to 93 3/4. Time Warner was up 2 1/4, to 87 1/4, and First Financial Management rose 3, to 42.
In other markets, Crop Genetics International rose 2 1/2, to 10 1/4, after Friday's announcement that the company had signed an agreement with the Du Pont Company for the joint commercialization of insecticidal virus products. The agreement calls for the two companies to develop, produce and market a broad range of viruses for insect control.
Bolar Pharmaceutical climbed 2 3/8, to 12 1/2, on what an analyst called renewed takeover speculation.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "Record Dow Close" shows daily closes of the Dow Jones industrial average from Jan.-Dec. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); DREYFUS CORP (83%); NYSE MKT LLC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (50%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH JR CHARLES M CLOUGH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1050 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Creating a Market In Yeltsin's Image

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the Soviet Union no longer exists, its national economy limps on, with Boris N. Yeltsin, Russia's president, pretty much at the helm. And now a battle royal is developing over these questions: Should he share control with the 11 other independent republics? If the republics cannot agree on common policies, should the national economy, like the union itself, be chopped up into pieces?
The first answers to these bedrock questions are coming this week with Mr. Yeltsin's decision to lift price ceilings in Russia. Unless he changes his mind, or the other republics take vigorous counteraction, rising prices in Mr. Yeltsin's republic will set off a chain of events that will force up prices throughout the old union. 
 "It may even be convenient for other politicians in other republics to say to their people, 'I would not do this to you guys, but Mr. Yeltsin's actions leave no choice,' " said Stanley Fisher, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund.
Whatever the reaction, for the time being, Mr. Yeltsin's administration, more than any other republic's, has in its hands the power to steer the national economy. The reason is that the Russian economy casts a shadow the other republics cannot easily escape, accounting for half the new commonwealth's population and nearly two-thirds of the old union's still intertwined economic activity.
If the price of a shirt, for example, rises in Russia to, say, 100 rubles, then shirt makers in Ukraine or Belarus are going to ship to the huge Russian market, rather than accept a still controlled 10 rubles at home. Belarus has already announced the lifting of price ceilings on Friday, the day after Russia acts. And President Leonid M. Kravchuk of Ukraine said yesterday that prices would be allowed to rise in his republic on Jan. 10.
The Ukrainians, the most outspoken critics of Mr. Yeltsin's action, complain among other things that the Russians are failing to supply enough rubles to handle not only the higher prices they are forcing on the republics but also the higher wages that will inevitably result. Despite their political independence, the republics all still use the ruble -- and the Yeltsin Government temporarily controls the printing of rubles.
Among the industrial nations, including the United States, the rooting is for Mr. Yeltsin's initiative on prices. The International Monetary Fund, the proxy for these nations, supports Mr. Yeltsin's action as an important step in forcing all the republics toward a free market system; one in which prices for all but some basic items, including oil, would be allowed to respond to demand.
The hope, of course, is that reality will duplicate economic theory: After an initial spurt of inflation, supply would catch up to demand as producers rush to cash in on rising prices, and then prices would level off. In the process, entrepreneurs and good managers would flourish, and the high-cost, least-efficient producers would disappear -- forced out of business because their costs would rise faster than the prices they could get for their shirts, refrigerators or other goods. What is more, the ruble's enhanced purchasing power would, in theory, make it a desirable currency to hold.
 The main obstacle to the Yeltsin approach is Ukraine. Since the two republics together represent roughly 80 percent of the republics' economic activity, "if they could work out a kind of dominion over economic policy, that would set the pace for the commonwealth," said C. Fred Bergsten, president of the Institute for International Economics.
Ukrainian opposition has already made Mr. Yeltsin cautious, contributing to his decision to postpone the lifting of price ceilings from Dec. 16 to Thursday. But if the Ukrainians hold back, and the Kiev shirt maker ships his goods to Moscow, the Ukrainians must either give ground, raising prices and wages, or resist by putting up export barriers and creating their own currency to replace the ruble -- in effect separating their economy.
Already, Ukraine has moved mildly in this direction. But pursuing such a course can be futile and dangerous, given how intertwined the Ukrainian economy is with the others, particularly Russia's. As an example, Gennadi I. Oudovenko, Ukraine's representative to the United Nations, cites the diesel locomotive factory in Lugansk, which assembles 98 percent of the locomotives used in the old Soviet Union. Most of the parts and materials come from Russia and, to a lesser extent, from the other republics.
"If the prices we pay for these items rise, our locomotive prices will also have to rise," Mr. Oudovenko said.
Such leverage gives Mr. Yeltsin a huge say in economic policy for the commonwealth, but not necessarily the last word. Disrupting the flow of Ukraine's rich supply of industrial and agricultural products is not healthy for Russia either. "We don't want the Russians to decide, but to coordinate with us, and for the time being that seems to be happening," Mr. Oudovenko said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UKRAINE (93%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (69%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UKRAINE (93%); BELARUS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); APPAREL MFG (69%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1051 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: THE YEAR IN FINANCE: NEWSMAKERS IN 1991;
Money Movers Caught in the Turbulent Times of the 90's;
Nicholas F. Brady: A Legislative Agenda Fails

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
Last December, when Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady was asked on a Sunday television news show about the prospect of a recession, he shrugged it off, saying that it was "no big deal."
Now curing the economic slump has become a matter of self-preservation for the Bush Administration, and Mr. Brady has become enmeshed in an internal struggle over what to do, if anything at all. 
 It has been a politically difficult year for Mr. Brady, a genial figure who found himself in Congress more than he wanted to ask for large bailouts for the nation's banks and savings and loans and being accused by some Democrats of concealing the true magnitude of the problems of those two industries.
 His biggest loss was a pivotal opportunity to use the plight of the bank insurance fund to overhaul the nation's banking system by erasing decades of restrictions.
Congress rejected his plan across the board to give banks greater authority to expand into new businesses and across state lines, and instead just provided new money for the insurance fund and tougher laws that give regulators greater powers.
In the face of a $70 billion taxpayer loan to keep afloat the bank insurance fund, he has dropped his oft-quoted phrase that the bank and savings and loan bailouts are "as different as chalk and cheese."
While his legislative agenda failed this year, it is impossible for an outsider to accurately measure Mr. Brady's successes because he has staked out a role in the Administration as the President's close friend and repository of confidences.
His power continues to come from his ability to saunter across the street to talk to Mr. Bush whenever he wants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas F. Brady (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); 

PERSON: BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC); LABATON, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1052 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Owners of Times Sq. Tower Seek Bankruptcy Protection

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
After three years in which they signed only one tenant for their 42-story tower in the theater district of Manhattan, the owners of 1585 Broadway have filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.
The silvery skyscraper, between 47th and 48th Streets, is owned by 1585 Broadway Associates, a partnership controlled by David S. Solomon. He also developed a nearby tower at 750 Seventh Avenue, which lost its sole office tenant in mid-November. 
 "The filing of this petition is not a hostile act," Mr. Solomon said yesterday in a telephone interview. "And it is in keeping with our cooperative effort with the lending group toward a successful prepackaged reorganization of the partnership's assets.
He added: "We view it very positively. It will provide the economic strength to finish the leasing of the building."
Under a "prepackaged" bankruptcy, an agreement is reached before the Chapter 11 filing with senior creditors on the terms of a settlement and a restructuring of the debt.
Mr. Solomon identified the lenders, with whom he had been negotiating for a year and a half, as the Toronto Dominion Bank, the Swiss Bank Corporation and the Bank of Montreal.
In its bankruptcy petition, the 1585 Broadway partnership listed assets of $231 million, chiefly the building and land, and debts of $482 million, said Warren A. Schad, chief financial officer and executive vice president of Solomon Equities. The property is losing $1.9 million a month.
The petition was filed last week and was reported yesterday by American Banker, a trade publication. Mr. Schad said a hearing was scheduled for today on a temporary debtor-in-possession plan under which the lenders finance the building's continuing operation.
At almost 1.35 million square feet, 1585 Broadway is one of the largest of a crop of new buildings that rose in and around Times Square in the late 1980's, under zoning incentives meant to push development to the west side of mid-Manhattan from the east.
Because their completion roughly coincided with a collapse in demand for office space, these and other new buildings in the city are standing vacant, or nearly so. A number of owners have already filed for bankruptcy protection.
At 1585 Broadway, the law firm of Proskauer, Rose, Goetz & Mendelsohn signed a lease in 1988 and moved into the building in 1990. The firm now occupies 340,000 square feet and is to expand to 460,000 square feet over four years. But the law firm is the only tenant.
Aggravating the financial problems, Mr. Solomon said, is that "we've seen a major decline in rents and an increase in tenants' expectations for work letters in recent months."
Indeed, Mr. Schad said, the cost of improvements for tenants specified in these work letters has risen to $75 a square foot, from $25 a square foot when the tower was being planned.
Mr. Solomon said the reorganization would "provide any tenant with the knowledge that the lending group will be there to provide appropriate capital to get tenants into the building."
About his building at 750 Seventh Avenue, at 49th Street, Mr. Solomon would say only, "We're working toward a successful resolution with the lending group," which is led by Citicorp.
Olwine, Connelly, Chase, O'Donnell & Wehyer, a law firm that was the single office tenant at 750 Seventh Avenue, disbanded and left the building in mid-November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (82%); BMO (NYSE) (82%); TD (TSX) (68%); TD (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: 1585 BROADWAY ASSOCIATES BANK OF MONTREAL (82%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (81%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: 1585 BROADWAY ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TIMES SQUARE (NYC); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); THEATER (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); PETITIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ZONING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LAWYERS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1053 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Plans Steps to Spur City Economy

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins, confronting growing budget deficits and a lingering recession as he nears the midpoint of his term, will use his State of the City address Thursday night to announce several measures to invigorate New York City's ailing local economy.
Speaking to a city troubled by economic stagnation, Mr. Dinkins will focus on actions his government can take to stimulate the private sector, like speeding payments to companies that do business with the city, relaxing licensing rules and pushing some capital projects ahead of schedule, mayoral aides said. 
 The speech affords the Mayor the chance to present a long-term vision for fiscal stability. The challenges he faces include obtaining concessions from municipal labor unions to increase productivity and limit salary increases, and convincing state monitors and bond-rating agencies of the soundness of his plans to bridge $7 billion in projected budget shortfalls over the next five years.
Critics of the Mayor's budget policies say he must also allay the fears of a restive electorate concerned about the city's future.
 
The 'Real Challenge'
 "The Mayor's real challenge," said Felix G. Rohatyn, the chairman of the state's Municipal Assistance Corporation, "is to talk to the frustrations of the people who want to leave the city and the despair of those who are condemned to stay. One way or another he has to convince both of these groups to give him time."
Many of those in the political square dance at City Hall say they will be watching to see how the speech addresses the stumbling blocks, great and small, that have plagued the Dinkins administration, from organizational disarray in his inner circle of advisers to strained relations with the City Council leadership.
Perhaps the greatest of those hurdles has been the administration's failure to win support from municipal unions for work-rule changes and drastic cuts in the work force. Those concessions are crucial to closing nearly the projected budget shortfalls over the next five years.
After gaining office with broad union support and granting a round of pay raises, Mr. Dinkins has so far been unable to persuade the union leaders to help him save money now.
For their part, union leaders complain that the Mayor's top aides have not consulted them on ways to make workers more productive and have instead made decisions unilaterally and sprung them on the workers. They also are critical of what they see as the Mayor's inconsistent policy of laying off more than 7,100 workers in hospitals, libraries and agencies like the Parks Department while hiring thousands of new police officers.
"There's a terrible, terrible feeling toward the Mayor right now," said Stanley Hill, the president of the District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. "It's going to be very difficult for the simple reason there is still some waste and fat in the Police Department. What the members see is Stanley Hill taking the heavy hits and no one else sharing the pain."
 
Labor's Cooperation Needed
 Without labor's cooperation, the Mayor will have a hard time convincing the State Financial Control Board that the administration's five-year spending plan is sound. And without the control board's stamp of approval, the Mayor cannot persuade the Municipal Assistance Corporation to provide $1 billion in aid by stretching out the payments on outstanding bonds maturing this year.
The Mayor's preliminary plan, unveiled on Nov. 6, depended heavily on the M.A.C. aid to finance a two-year tax freeze. It also said any wage increases would be financed by the unions through increased productivity.
But Mr. Rohatyn, the M.A.C. chairman, has said he will not refinance the bonds unless the control board determines the Mayor's plans are sound. "Any plan the city submits with work-force reductions has to include the cooperation and support of the municipal labor unions," he said.
The Mayor is to release a more detailed, revised financial plan on Jan. 16. The Financial Control Board, set up in the 1970's to oversee city budgeting, can vote to take over city finances if the Mayor fails to balance the budget.
Another challenge facing the Mayor will be to mend fences with the newly empowered and expanded City Council. The Council has been at loggerheads with the Mayor over budget priorities and the administration's plan to scatter small homeless shelters throughout the city. In the last year, relations between Mr. Dinkins and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone have been anything but cooperative.
 
A Strained Relationship
 Complaining that the Mayor does not yet treat the Council as an equal partner in government, Mr. Vallone has asserted the Council's independence by overriding the Mayor's veto of a grocery item-pricing bill and, more recently, threatening to hold up a package of midyear budget changes until certain programs were restored.
"There is someone on that side of City Hall who thinks that we are tresspassing when we try to make a suggestion," Mr. Vallone said. "The solution is just to recognize you have to sit down with an equal partner and work."
To a large degree, Mr. Dinkins has had a rocky tenure because it has been a challenging time to be Mayor. From the moment he took office, the city has been punished by a national recession that has shriveled tax revenues, driven unemployment up and swelled the welfare rolls to levels not seen in a decade.
So the Mayor, who cobbled together a liberal coalition with the promise of a "new path to progress," has presided over layoffs, service cuts and a get-tough policy on crime. Unlike city officials in the 1970's, Mr. Dinkins has been unable to turn to Washington or Albany for help because the Republican Administration of President Bush has retreated from social spending and the state's budget is also in a shambles.
Of Mr. Dinkins, Deputy Mayor Milton Mollen said, "He came in with a progressive program, and at every turn he's been constantly hampered by the financial problems. It's very frustrating."
Still, the Mayor's critics and even some supporters say he has yet to articulate a clear vision of how to lead the city out of the woods, and his cautious, low-key style has not inspired New Yorkers to weather the recession.
"People do need to feel there is hope," said Sandra Feldman, president of the United Federation of Teachers and one of Mr. Dinkins's early supporters. "Part of what's been a problem this whole time is there hasn't been an articulation of a clear plan by the administration for getting through this. There isn't a feeling that this or that program is a priority, except for cops. It's been diffuse."
The Mayor insists he has not let his supporters down. "I don't know that there are so many people who liked me a lot who are so disappointed," he said in a year-end interview, "because I encounter people every day, polls notwithstanding, who will come up to me and tell me what a great job they think I'm doing."
 
Drop in Approval Rating
 The Mayor's approval rating in polls has dropped in recent months to below 30 percent, and some political strategists say his falling popularity stems from trying to please too many irreconciable groups at once, from business leaders demanding tax relief to fiscal monitors asking for huge work-force cuts to progressives urging him not turn his back on his liberal roots.
"The worst thing in the world is to spread the grief out evenly because then everyone hates you," Norman Adler, a political consultant, said. "It's better to rob Peter to pay Paul because at least you have the gratitude of Paul."
Many inside the city government say the Mayor's biggest tasks in the second half of his four-year term will be to find an inner circle of deputy mayors and advisers who click, something that has eluded him. He has the same team of five deputies he took office with, though a sixth, Cesar A. Perales, will join the administration next month to oversee health agencies, and his finance deputy, Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, intends to step down.
Mr. Mollen and the First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel, have been seeking positions outside government, their associates say, but both men brush off suggestions they may leave soon. The Mayor's task is made more difficult by the stormy departures of the head of the city hospital system, the Sanitation Department and the jail system. Whatever decisions he makes will determine the team that will take him through his re-election campaign in 1993.
The political test for the Mayor will be to rebuild the coalition that elected him by a two-percentage point margin in 1989. Many Hispanic voters, a pillar of his support, complain that he has not appointed enough Hispanic officials to senior posts and has been insensitive to their concerns. Black New Yorkers gave him more than 90 percent of their votes, but a third now disapprove of his performance in a recent New York Times/WCBS-TV Poll.
Mr. Dinkins maintains that when voters are forced to compare him to his probable opponents, City Council President Andrew J. Stein, a Democrat who has been courting conservative voters, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, his liberal supporters will not desert him.
"I think in time, as we address these issues and people come to understand the rationale therefore, people will look at this administration and what we have accomplished," Mr. Dinkins said. "They'll weigh that against some people who will promise, because that's about all they can do is promise."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some political strategists say Mayor David N. Dinkins's falling popularity stems from trying to please too many irreconcilable groups at once. "I don't know that there are so many people who like me a lot who are so disappointed," said Mr. Dinkins, during a year-end interview in his office at City Hall. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MAYORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); COUNTIES (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (56%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1054 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Owens-Corning Names Chairman

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation said yesterday that a General Electric executive, Glen H. Hiner, would succeed its chairman and chief executive, Max O. Weber, next month. Mr. Weber has cancer.
Mr. Hiner, who is 57 years old and runs G.E.'s plastics operations, will be moving from one of the nation's strongest industrial giants to a company respected for its operations but saddled with a weak balance sheet and huge asbestos liabilities. 
 Like G.E., Owens-Corning is an industry leader in most of its businesses, with a reputation for strong management. The company, based in Toledo, Ohio, is the nation's leading producer of fiberglass insulation and roofing materials and supplier of fiberglass reinforcement materials to the auto, boating and appliance markets. In the first nine months of this year, it earned $19 million on sales of $2.12 billion.
 
Asbestos Cases and Debt
 "It's a super company," said Donald Pattison, who follows Owens-Corning for C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc. "But asbestos liabilities will be the prime determinant of the company's earnings and stock performance over the next few years, regardless of who is running it."
Owens-Corning is still paying large debts piled up in fighting off a takeover attempt by the Wickes Companies in 1986. The company has strong cash flow from its operations and has been gaining market share in its major businesses. And it has earned admiration on Wall Street for its progress in reducing its debt to about $1.2 billion from almost $2.6 billion.
One of the first problems Mr. Hiner will face is the impact of the weakening economy. Some analysts now expect that fourth-quarter earnings, which will be reported shortly after Mr. Hiner takes over on Jan. 23, to be about half of what they had been predicted three months ago. But falling interest rates should stimulate the major markets of the company and help it manage its debt.
That leaves asbestos as the problem that really spooks Wall Street. Owens-Corning shocked investors in October and lost more than a third of its market value in two days after it announced that it needed to increase sharply the amount it would set aside from earnings in the coming years to cover expenses from the tens of thousands of asbestos cases it faced. Yesterday, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the company's shares rose $1.125 to close at $21.
Owens's asbestos liability stems from the company's sales of pipe insulation containing the hazardous mineral to shipbuilders, a business that ended in 1972. Analysts say the company has been paying an average of $9,500 to dispose of each asbestos claim in the last year. In 1990 alone, the company paid $117 million in asbestos claims. Most of the costs have been covered by insurance, but that coverage is likely to be exhausted by 1996 or 1997. More than 85,000 cases are outstanding, and the number continues to grow.
Mr. Weber, who is 62, joined Owens-Corning as an insulation salesman in 1955. He rose steadily through ranks to become president and chief operating officer in 1988. He was named chairman and chief executive just over a year ago when William W. Boeschenstein retired.
Mr. Weber's replacement, Mr. Hiner, said he had been briefed in detail by Owens-Corning's corporate and outside lawyers about the asbestos situation before accepting the job. He added that he was willing to consider suggestions from Wall Street that the company attempt to assess its total future liability and take one huge write-off to cover it instead of making numerous smaller adjustments.
Mr. Hiner described himself as "a touch and feel kind of guy who doesn't like getting information from reports."
"My orientation," he said, "is toward the marketplace, although my educational background is in electrical engineering. Market share is a big concern of mine."
 
G.E. as Recruiting Ground
 G.E.'s widely admired managerial ranks have been a frequent stopping place for recruiters seeking help for troubled or suddenly leaderless companies. Mr. Hiner's departure comes just six months after his former boss, Lawrence Bossidy, was lured from G.E. to the chief executive's position at Allied-Signal.
Mr. Hiner joined G.E. after graduating from West Virginia University in 1957 and, with the exception of three years in the Air Force, has been there ever since. He has headed G.E.'s plastics business since 1978.
Before taking over in Pittsfield, Mr. Hiner had managed the plastic business's European operations. He said yesterday that he thought his international experience appealed to Owens-Corning, which had begun discussions with him last summer.
Mr. Hiner said the progress of his negotiations had been determined largely by Mr. Weber's deteriorating health and had accelerated last month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glen H. Hiner, who in January will replace Max O. Weber as chairman and chief executive of Owens-Corning Fiberglas. (Owens-Corning Fiberglas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (98%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: OWENS-CORNING FIBERGLAS CORP OWENS CORNING (98%); C J LAWRENCE MORGAN GRENFELL INC (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: OWENS-CORNING FIBERGLAS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MINERAL WOOL MFG (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); FIBERGLASS (90%); TOXIC TORTS (89%); ASBESTOS PRODUCT MFG (89%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (89%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); ROOFING MATERIALS (71%); MARKET SHARE (64%); PLASTICS (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; HINER, GLEN H MAX O WEBER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1055 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Slightly Higher In Trading Before Holiday

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The dollar closed slightly higher against major European currencies in slow trading yesterday in New York, with many dealers on vacation ahead of the New Year's holiday.
 The dollar rose to 1.5210 German marks from Friday's close of 1.5185. Against the Japanese yen, it fell to 125.55 from Friday's 125.93.
 Robert White of the First Interstate Bank in Los Angeles said it was hard to come up with any reasons to sell the dollar, as bearish sentiment from the drop in United States interest rates was offset by higher bond and stock prices.
 The Dow Jones industrial average soared 62.39 points, or 2 percent, to close at a record 3,163.91. Bonds also moved higher.
 
Japan Move Expected
 Early yesterday Japan cut its discount rate to 4 1/2 percent from 5 percent. Mr. White said the cut was a surprise only in the timing and had little impact on the dollar. Many dealers had expected a cut after the first of the year.
 News that United States consumer confidence remained essentially level at 52.4 in December, compared with 52.7 a month earlier, and that a barometer of the Chicago area's industrial economy fell sharply also had little impact.
 "The confidence index was not as low as people were expecting it to be," said Frank Cahill at Bank of New York.
 Officials at the Conference Board, a business-supported research group that released the survey, said the virtually flat reading, following big drops in October and November, was relatively good news.
 "We're seeing next to nothing going on," said Steve Flynn, a corporate dealer at First National Bank of Boston. "The market pretty much shrugged off everything," he said.
 Market participants believe any trade package negotiated by the United States and Japan during President Bush's coming visit there will include an agreement to strengthen the yen, said Rick Porter, vice president of the Fuji Bank in New York.
 Traders are reluctant, however, to sell significant amounts of dollars against the yen, said Richard Vullo, senior marketing representative at the Bank of Montreal in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (81%); BMO (NYSE) (81%); BK (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (81%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (72%); FIRST INTERSTATE BANK OF COMMERCE (57%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (88%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1056 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Survey of Confidence Shows Little Change

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Consumer spirits, which tumbled in October and November to recession lows, did not worsen in December, according to the latest survey of consumer confidence by the Conference Board.
"We've leveled off," Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center, said yesterday. "The bad news is that we're still a very disenchanted population." 
 The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence, based on a monthly survey of 5,000 households around the nation, stood at 52.4 in December, compared with 52.7 in November. But the dip of three-tenths of a percentage point does not signify a true change, Mr. Linden said, because any movement in the index of less than a full point reflects "normal static in the data."
 
 
Rate Cut Came Later
 The survey results echo an earlier report on consumer confidence from the University of Michigan, but both reports mostly reflect the mood of consumers before they heard two significant -- and offsetting -- pieces of economic news: the sweeping job cuts announced on Dec. 18 by the General Motors Corporation and the Federal Reserve's reduction in the discount rate on Dec. 20.
The results were based on responses from the first 18 or so days of December, and thus do not measure attitudes during the last days of the month. So it is quite possible that the Conference Board's index for December will be revised next month, although it is unclear whether G.M.'s cuts or the Fed's move will hold greater sway with those surveyed.
 
 
More Hope for the Future
 Consumers were more downbeat in December than in November about current economic conditions, especially job prospects, and less inclined to make major purchases like cars or appliances. But at the same time they were more hopeful than a month earlier that the economy would be in better shape six months from now.
One important barometer of the mood of consumers, existing home sales, rose in November, the National Association of Reators said yesterday. Home resales jumped 5.4 percent, the biggest rise in 9 months, after climbing 1 percent in October. Home buyers, especially in the South and Midwest, are able to take advantage of the lowest mortgage rates in 14 years.
Nonetheless, the December confidence reading from the Conference Board shows that consumers are as depressed now as they have been at any time in the last couple of decades, including the depths of the 1981-82 recession, when unemployment was in the double digits. The jobless rate last month was 6.8 percent.
 
 
Less Job Security
 A fading sense of job security, even at the cream of corporations and in top-paying white-collar professions, is to blame, economists say.
"The problem is much more pervasive than people actually losing jobs," said Neal Soss, the chief economist of First Boston, who sees the entire postwar economic structure being dismantled just as surely as the ending of the cold war.
"Corporations can't be viewed as loyal," he said. "Workers can't have as much confidence in the future."
And consumers' spirits are unlikely to revive for some months, he added. "Until companies fix up their balance sheets, employers can't restore a sense of security," Mr. Soss said. But the Federal Reserve's recent action should help eventually, because "declines in interest rates are the needed therapy because they let companies fix up their balance sheets."
 
 
Little Effect on Spending
 What does the gloomy mood imply for spending in the year's final quarter?
"Consumer spending figures don't follow the confidence numbers," said Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company. Partly, he said, that is because consumers devote half of their budgets to services like utilities and medical care.
Mr. McKelvey said he thought spending in the fourth quarter stayed roughly even with that of the third quarter. "The spending figures are not behaving the way you'd expect them to," he said, noting that the collapse in confidence indicated in the October and November surveys had not translated into lower expenditures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); RECESSION (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1057 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: In 1991, a Mixture Of Caution and Elan

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS

 BODY:
The state of the hemline was a subject agitating both designers and retailers during the last year. Consumers seemed relatively unconcerned.
During the five-year run of the miniskirt they had done pretty much what they wanted. If they liked the way they looked in short skirts, they wore them. If they felt they were too old, too serious or too fat, they avoided them. As simple as that. 
 Designers made it easy. Though they bared the knees, sometimes by a wide margin, in their fashion shows, they shipped the styles longer to the stores, long enough to cover the knees in many cases.
After their long exposure to short skirts, women appeared to be getting accustomed to them. This winter more knees were bared than ever before in the current run of miniskirts. Still, a change seemed to be on the way. In their spring collections, shown in October and November, designers began testing deeper waters. About 10 percent of the styles in many collections descended to the calf or beyond.
 
Can Long Be Sexy?

 
 Several factors were holding designers back from an all-out thrust. First, there was the perception that short skirts were uncluttered, easy to move around in and a completely contemporary idiom. Then there was the problem of making longer styles as lively, young and, yes, sexy as the shorter ones. A few designers said they were stumped by the idea of making full long skirts look appealing. Most chose narrow skirts split high at the front or sides to show the legs. Others chose thin, diaphanous fabrics so the legs would not be completely concealed.
But perhaps the biggest hindrance to change was the economic situation. In 1987 when the stock market dropped, the fashion business did not suffer unduly for people continued to buy new clothes: they still wanted to look prosperous. In the last year, a different attitude developed. Besides the reality of the economic bind, many women did not want to appear showy: it did not seem to be good form. Not only did they demand lower prices, but they bragged about their purchases at discount stores, sample sales and from markdown racks.
At the beginning of the year retailers appeared undecided about whether to stress safe, classic clothes or to seek original, even outrageous designs. By the end of the year a compromise evolved. Fresh design ideas were necessary to stimulate business, many retailers now believed, but the clothes couldn't be too wild. A major change, like the lengthening of skirts, was considered too upsetting by many stores.
The fashion action for the year began on a somber note, with the Paris couture shows taking place in the midst of the Persian Gulf war. The Japanese and American buyers were noticeably absent and the atmosphere of the shows was workmanlike rather than celebratory. Significantly, the most talked about individual style was a floor-length evening dress by Valentino with the word Peace spelled out in silver sequins in 14 languages. Signaling the hemline uncertainty that was to come later, the most prominent evening style in most couture collections showed the knees in front and dipped to the floor in back.
By the time of the fall showings, the mood had lifted. Oscar de la Renta made his debut, the first American to show with the rest of the French ready-to-wear collections. He established a toehold for American fashions abroad, and at the same time laid the groundwork for the importance of plaids for winter.
The jacket was firmly established as the key wardrobe component, worn with short skirts, dresses, pants or tights. For evening, the short slip dress was a major fashion, done notably by Calvin Klein.
As the fashion pace accelerated, some designer reputations soared. Gianni Versace's extravagant clothes, from wildly mixed prints to cropped versions of 18th-century ball gowns, pushed him into the forefront of fashion. On the exuberant side of the ledger, Karl Lagerfeld for Chanel and Christian Lacroix continued to dazzle. Geoffrey Beene's amazingly creative designs, Izaac Mizrahi's exuberant ones and Ralph Lauren's serenely elegant classics all won critical acclaim.
One of the oddest trends was the popularity of underwear as outerwear, expressed in dresses with underwire-bra tops and black-lace-over-beige-net fabrics that looked more appropriate for the boudoir than the ballroom. This was balanced by the man-tailored trend involving pants suits, shirts and even men's ties, best expressed in collections by Mr. Lagerfeld in Europe and Mr. Lauren in New York.
While these represent extremes, there was no paucity of invention in most fashion collections. There was a more-than-usual array of choices in each designer's work. The big problem was not design but loosening the customer's purse strings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christian Lacroix continued his brew of mixed prints and colors.; Slanting hem, bold dots and side slit are features of Geoffrey Beene's one-shoulder dress.; Oscar de la Renta's Paris show gave boost to popularity of plaids.; Scaasi's sequined bra and slip show through long sheer black evening dress.; Calvin Klein does longer hemline dress in diaphanous silk and tops it with plaid jacket.; Short sequined lace one-shoulder dress by Yves Saint Laurent has side-dipping hemline.; Man-tailored clothes by Ralph Lauren contrasted with super-feminine lingerie look. (Kim Garnick/The New York Times; Jean-Luce Hure for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY ONE; WOMEN FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); DESERT STORM (60%); 

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1058 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: In a Publishing Coup, Books in 'Unwritten' Languages

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
JESUS SALINAS PEDRAZA, a rural schoolteacher in the Mexican state of Hidalgo, sat down to a word processor a few years back and produced a monumental book, a 250,000-word description of his own Indian culture written in the Nahnu language. Nothing seems to be left out: folktales and traditional religious beliefs, the practical uses of plants and minerals and the daily flow of life in field and village.
But it is more than the content that makes the book a remarkable publishing event, for Mr. Salinas is neither a professional anthropologist nor a literary stylist. He is, though, the first person to write a book in Nahnu (NYAW-hnyu), the native tongue of several hundred thousand Indians but a previously unwritten language.
Such a use of microcomputers and desktop publishing for languages with no literary tradition is now being encouraged by anthropologists for recording ethnographies from an insider's perspective. They see this as a means of preserving cultural diversity and a wealth of human knowledge. With even greater urgency, linguists are promoting the techniques as a way of saving some of the world's languages from imminent extinction.
Half of the world's 6,000 languages are considered by linguists to be endangered. These are the languages spoken by small societies that are dwindling with the encroachment of larger, more dynamic cultures. Young people feel economic pressure to learn only the language of the dominant culture, and as the older people die, the non-written language vanishes, unlike languages with a history of writing, like Latin.
Dr. H. Russell Bernard, the anthropologist at the University of Florida at Gainesville who taught Mr. Salinas to read and write his native language, said: "Languages have always come and gone. Neither the language of Jesus nor that of Caesar are spoken today. But languages seem to be disappearing faster than ever before."
In 30 years of field studies, Dr. Kenneth Hale, a linguist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a leader in efforts to preserve endangered languages, said he had worked with at least eight that have become extinct and many others that are "seriously imperiled."
Dr. Michael E. Krauss, the director of the Alaska Native Language Center at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks, estimates that 300 of the 900 indigenous languages in the Americas are moribund. That is, they are no longer being spoken by children, and so could disappear in a generation or two. Only two of the 20 native languages in Alaska are still being learned by children.
"Languages no longer being learned as mother-tongue by children are beyond endangerment," Dr. Krauss said. Unless the current course is somehow reserved, he added, these languages "are already doomed to extinction, like species lacking reproductive capacity."
Dr. Krauss asks: "Should we mourn the loss of Eyak or Ubykh any less than the loss of the panda or California condor?"
At a symposium a few years ago in Mexico on "The Politics of Linguistic Revitalization," representatives of Latin American Indians passed a resolution saying, "The loss of a language in the world means the disappearance of the cultural heritage transmitted by it, and the truncation of an alternate route of cultural development for humankind."
In an effort to preserve language diversity in Mexico, Dr. Bernard and Mr. Salinas decided in 1987 on a plan to teach the Indian people to read and write their own languages using microcomputers. They established a native literacy center in Oaxaca, Mexico, where others could follow in the footsteps of Mr. Salinas and write books in other Indian languages.
The Oaxaca center goes beyond most bilingual education programs, which concentrate on teaching people to speak and read their native languages. Instead, it operates on the premise that, as Dr. Bernard decided, what most native languages lack is native authors who write books in their own languages.
"Without popular literacy, all but a few endangered languages will soon disappear," Dr. Bernard said."And when non-written languages disappear, they disappear forever."
Mr. Salinas set the example. He had grown up speaking both Spanish and Nahnu, one of the more widely spoken of the 56 Indian languages in Mexico. The Nahnu Indians are also known as the Otomi, a name they now reject because of its pejorative connotations in Mexican Spanish.
While conducting research in Mexico in the 1970's, Dr. Bernard taught Mr. Salinas to read and write the Nahnu language, using a modified version of an alphabet that had been developed by missionaries. The Summer Institute of Linguistics, a worldwide evangelical Protestant organization based in Dallas, has for decades developed the alphabets for hundreds of Indian languages.
Virtually all indigenous languages now have rudimentary writing systems, including alphabets, a dictionary and some grammar. In Nahnu and many other languages, however, the only book is a Bible translation.
Next Dr. Bernard adapted computer software for writing Nahnu on a word processor and for printing manuscripts and books, which would not have been affordable through traditional publishing. In this way, Mr. Salinas first produced a book of Nahnu folktales and, two years ago, his magnum opus on Nahnu culture. A translation in English, by Dr. Bernard, is entitled, "Native Ethnography: A Mexican Indian Describes His Culture."
 
As-Told-to Autobiographies
 He wrote of the trapping and cooking of squirrels, which many people still believe were first human beings who sinned and so are symbols of bad luck; the uses of the mineral lime in medicine ( for burning off warts) and in making tortillas and cooking vegetables; the arrival of foreigners, as remembered in oral histories; rituals of passage; music, and local fiestas.
There is a long tradition of training people of a remote culture to be what anthropologists call informants. These people would describe the legends and customs and sometimes dictate their autobiographies. But these were usually taped interviews with an anthropologist and not the direct work of an indigenous person.
At the Oaxaca center, run by Mr. Salinas, Indians spend up to three months learning the technology for producing works in their previously nonwritten languages. They are mostly bilingual schoolteachers, such as Mixtecs learning to use a Mixtec-Spanish word processor. Josefa Gonzalez, the wife of Mr. Salinas, is a Mixtec Indian who is writing her own book on Mixtec culture.
The center is supported by the Jessie Ball du Pont Foundation and sponsored by Mexico's Ministry of Education, the Inter-American Indian Institute of the Organization of American States, the Center for Advanced Studies in Social Anthropology in Oaxaca and the University of Florida at Gainesville.
So far, the Oaxaca authors have produced works in Chatino, Amuzgo, Chinantec and Mazatec, as well as Nahnu and Mixtec. Other books in Tzotzil and Zapotec are in the works. In every case, the trainees wrote directly in their own languages, using word processors with specially developed computer programs. Such microcomputer technology is available at relatively low cost, Dr. Bernard said, "so that virtually every nonliterate people of the world can develop their own machine-readable data bank about their own culture, and can have their own independent publishing capability in support of native ethnography."
The Oaxaca project's influence is spreading. Impressed by the work of Mr. Salinas and others, Dr. Norman Whitten, an anthropologist at the University of Illinois, arranged for schoolteachers from Ecuador to visit Oaxaca and learn the techniques.
Now Ecuadorian Indians have begun writing about their cultures in the Quichua and Shwara languages. Others from Bolivia and Peru are learning to use the computers to write their languages, including Quecha, the tongue of the ancient Incas, still spoken by about 12 million Andean Indians.
Anthropologists in Cameroon have introduced the technology in that African country of more than 200 tribal languages. At the end of a two-week training course, Dr. Bernard said, each of the five speakers of the Kom language would turn on the computer in the morning and start typing Kom without hesitation. Anything they could say, they could write.
Dr. Bernard emphasized that these native literacy programs are not intended to discourage people from learning the dominant language of their country as well. "I see nothing useful or charming about remaining monolingual in any Indian language if that results in being shut out of the national economy," he said.
Anthropologists acknowledge that bilingualism can be a sensitive political issue. In places strugging to create a workable nation, the preservation of separate languages can be seen as potentially divisive, setting one group against another.
But anthropologists and leaders of native cultures generally favor bilingualism because it preserves a distinctive culture, which often gives the people more power than if they were completely assimilated. A distinctive language can be a strong force in establishing cultural uniqueness, or ethnicity, which in turn can reinforce a group's claim to a share of power.
Such efforts may be too late for hundreds of languages and dwindling cultures, anthropologists and linguists say, but in time to help preserve some of the cultural heterogeneity of the planet.


GRAPHIC: Ra naa di hna ra
guuni nzantho ha ra kuni, pa ko'tsuabi ra do'yo de ga haai o de ga boja. Xta 'nexa ra do'yo ha ra ts'bi nu'mu yaa da mudi da 'yenta ya hme. Pa gehna di hna n'a ra nthut'yo de ga dethi n'andi ra thexi 'neehe.
A woman who grinds corn for tortillas uses lime a lot in the kitchen. She puts it on the comal, which can be either of clay or metal. She does this when she puts the comal on the fire as she starts making tortillas. She uses a little brush made from palma or from ixtle.
Da uant'a ra naani xa nho pa da nthant'ui ra dehe. 'Neepu da go'tsua ra do'yo nts'edi mahyoni pa njabu hingi kue'ta ya hme xta puunts'i. Da zaa ra tsibi ge kue'te ha nu'mu tuu ra naani ra do'yo nu'mu hina.
She mixes the lime
thoroughly in the water, then dabs it on the comal with the brush. This is helpful because the tortillas won't stick to the comal when they are turned. When tortillas get hot, they stick, but if the comal has lime on it then they don't.
(Source: "Native Ethnography: A Mexican Indian Describes His Culture," Bernard and Pedraza (Sage Publications) (pg. C1)
 
Map of Mexico highlighting Hidalgo (pg. C7)
Diagram: "Electronic Folklore"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALASKA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS LITERATURE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LINGUISTICS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); RELIGION (79%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); WRITERS (78%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (77%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (77%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); FOLKLORE (72%); 

PERSON: SALINAS PEDRAZA, JESUS; WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1059 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Birth Rates Plummeting in Some Ex-Communist Regions of Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 30

 BODY:
Across the former Communist empire of Eastern Europe and the defunct Soviet Union, increasing numbers of women are choosing not to have children now, sending birth rates plummeting in eastern Germany, Romania, Ukraine and parts of Russia.
At the same time, birth rates in Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia are continuing the steady declines of the last decade, in a climate of general economic uncertainty marked by growing unemployment and inflation. 
 Among the regions with the sharpest declines in the last two years are eastern Germany, where the birth rate dropped by almost 50 percent between 1989 and mid-1991, falling below the rate in western Germany. Other areas affected are Ukraine, where the early 1991 statistics indicate the two-year drop will be close to 30 percent; Russia, where the two-year drop in the birth rate is expected to run between 15 and 20 percent, and Romania, where current trends indicate the two-year decline will exceed 30 percent.
These abrupt declines in demographic indicators that usually move with glacial slowness "are very symbolic of the times of troubles they are living in," said Murray Feshbach, a research professor of demographics at Georgetown University. Such sudden reductions in fertility, he and other experts said, are usually associated with cataclysms like wars, famines or severe economic disruption such as Germany experienced in the early 1930's.
 
Continued Decline Expected
 Demographic experts from the United States, France, Germany and the former Soviet Union, who learned of the new figures at an academic conference in Paris recently, suggested in telephone interviews that the region's political and economic turmoil, coupled with the disappearance of social benefits designed to encourage births, are likely to continue the downward trend of birth rates for at least two to three more years.
"Part of it is a long-term demographic trend, and part of it is the economic problems of the moment," said Sergei Zakharov, a researcher with the Center for Demography and Ecology in the Institute of Employment in Moscow.
In major areas of Eastern Europe -- Hungary, eastern Germany, Romania and Ukraine -- experts expect more deaths than births in 1991. That would be a startling development, bringing Eastern Europe's population trends in line with the West's.
"The Eastern European experience reflects a delayed modernization, exacerbated by the bleak economy," David Coleman, a professor of demography at Oxford University, said in a telephone interview.
 
Iron Curtain Is Cited
 "The imposition of the Iron Curtain warped demographic development," he added, pointing out that in much of Eastern Europe, birth rates had dropped to a relatively low level in the 1930's, reflecting the natural trends of industrializing societies to produce fewer children as workers left the farms for the factories.
"Fertility rates in Eastern Europe were distorted by constant interference to keep them high," Mr. Coleman said, speaking of official birth incentives.
But the incentives generally failed to slow the decline in birth rates that began in the early 1980's in countries like Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia.
In what was then the Soviet Union, according to Mr. Zakharov and other experts, the active pro-birth policies of the early 1980's -- like longer paid maternity leaves and guarenteed retention of workplace seniority during maternity leave -- caused an upward blip in the birth rate, which then declined steadily after the mid-1980's.
According to the most widely used demographic measure, the total fertility rate -- which reflects the average number of children per woman of childbearing age -- Eastern European countries had higher levels of childbearing than almost all of Western Europe throughout the late 1980's.
With the exception of Ireland, with a total fertility rate of 2.3 in 1987, the fertility rates of the major countries of Western Europe ranged from 1.8 for Britain to 1.4 for West Germany in that year. And 1987 statistics for Eastern Europe ranged show total fertility rates ranging from 2.4 in Romania to 1.8 in Hungary. Only East Germany, with a total fertility rate of 1.7, came close to the overall European average rates of childbearing. The replacement fertility rate is 2.1.
Now, experts say, total fertility rates in Eastern Europe parallel those of the West more closely. But in some areas of the East, the falloff in births has been accompanied by an increase in mortality.
Mr. Zakharov reported that deaths already exceed births in several major former Soviet urban areas, including Moscow. Although many rural regions, abandoned by many young people, have for years had "negative population growth" -- more deaths than births -- "we've never in history had such a downturn of births in Moscow as we have in the past two years," he said.
The Ukrainian Environment Minister, Yuri Shcherbak, said in a recent interview in Washington that in 1991 deaths have exeeded births in that republic of 53 million people for the first time in decades. He said the death rates for Ukraine increased by 6.8 percent between 1989 and 1990.
The reasons, according to Mr. Feshbach of Georgetown University, are most probably the widespread environmental contamination, including the fallout from the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in 1986, and the low level of health care and scarcity of medicine.
It is not clear if the same factors are at work in eastern Germany, but the demographic situation is similar.
In September, a German researcher, Klaus Klemm, told fellow educational researchers that the number of births in the five provinces that once made up East Germany is expected to drop from its 1989 level of nearly 200,000 to about 115,000 in 1991, according to a report in the Government bulletin "In Germany This Week."
 
Romania Legalizes Abortion
 The decline in births has also been severe in Romania, where Nicolae Ceausescu's pro-birth policies were the most draconian in the Communist world. The number of abortions there is estimated to have increased threefold since abortion in the first 14 weeks of pregnancy was legalized about a week after the fall of the dictator, who had made it a crime, according to Carl Haub, director of Information for the Population Reference Bureau, a private research organization in Washington.
The Romanian birth rate started to drop in 1987, then fell faster than the rate in any other country when abortion was legalized in January 1990.
The still-incomplete 1990 data and early 1991 figures out of Romania, according to Godfrey Baldwin of the Federal Census Bureau, indicate that the number of births there declined by more than 15 percent in 1990 and are expected to decline at least that much in 1991.
In much of Eastern Europe -- with the exception of eastern Germany and predominantly Roman Catholic Poland, where contraceptive devices were more easily available -- the scarcity of modern contraceptive devices like condoms, diaphragms and the birth control pill has made abortion a basic contraceptive technique for women who want to avoid giving birth in turbulent times.
According to data to be published by Henry P. David in a coming issue of "Studies in Family Planning," Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union had aboutas many abortions as live births in the late 1980's, while Ukraine had twice as many births as abortions. In 1988, Soviet women had 1,161 abortions for every 1,000 live births.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about birth rates in Eastern Europe referred incorrectly in some editions to a new Romanian abortion law. It allows abortions in the first 14 weeks of pregnancy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Birth rates are plummeting in eastern Germany, Romania, Ukraine and parts of Russia as an increasing number of women are choosing not to have children during the present climate of economic uncertainty. Empty cribs stand waiting in a Moscow hospital nursery. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "After Communism, Fewer Children" shows total fertility rate for selected Eastern European countries from '85 to '90 (Sources: Population Reference Bureau; Census Bureau; Austrian Demographic Yearbook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HUNGARY (94%); ROMANIA (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); POLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST; RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR); GERMANY; ROMANIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); CZECHOSLOVAKIA; POLAND; HUNGARY ; AFRICA; ITALY; SPAIN EUROPE (98%); UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HUNGARY (94%); ROMANIA (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); POLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: ;POPULATION; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); TRENDS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); FERTILITY RATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); FAMINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991



1060 of 1060 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: December 31, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 2147 words

HEADLINE: Relax, It's Almost Over

BYLINE: By Allan Gurganus; Allan Gurganus is author, most recently, of "White People."

DATELINE: CHAPEL HILL, N.C.

 BODY:
"Whenever people talk about the weather," Oscar Wilde wrote in 1895, "I always think they mean something else." Now that 1991 has almost left the room, may I vary the form? "Whenever people talk about something else, I think they mean the news."
So, Happy New Year! It's your Hit Parade: Who can ever forget 1991 (fast enough)? The Persian Gulf war (at last an opponent with the grace to just sit there and be targets so we could, as we were told, "feel good about ourselves again"!). The Crown Heights race war. The Great Ozone Leak (White House denies knowing, White Flower Farm does not). Who can block out the L.A.P.D.'s "They did it their way" guest spot on the ultimate Candid Camera? David Duke's best shot at the gubernatorial, Jeffrey Dahmer's idea of a date. The Russian coup and then the Soviet Union's meltdown. Dan Quayle claiming, "All environmentalists are extremists," as the Exxon oil spillers get a slap on the wrist? President Bush fails for another year to seriously mention AIDS, except in barring from home soil an international conference devoted to its cure (130,000 Americans dead so far) -- plus, The Clarence Thomas Show . . . something for everybody's worst fears. 
 And in place of noisy protest? The Silence of the Lambs.
Q.: Who has 1991 handpicked to be its own top character witness?
A.: Correct, and he's waiting right backstage, folks, yes, it's John Doggett! John? Come on out here, guy!
Not even at the height of the Vietnam War was North America's dwindling righteous remnant -- its thinking people -- more strictly attentive to the sway and stats and sting of disaster. I've been squirreling away definitive clippings, charts and notes. To show whom? Which Solomon? My rooms now look like a hybrid of CNN headquarters and Merlin's workshop. My thinking's stalled there, too -- between the actual and the magical -- between numbed disbelief and weird persistent hope. Never have so many of us yelled so often at our TV's and radios. Items were thrown, glass items. To what end, this study? What good, this emotion operatic? Is it even ethical to devote so much energy to questions concerning the end of ethics?
But, see, here's the news junkie's lament: the more dependent on the news I get, the more likely I am to chatter half-boastfully of my lurid hard-won lore, the less I feel in actual control. Now that 1991 is almost out of here forever, let's just talk about her, O.K.? She'll never know, she couldn't help it and we all need some therapy today.
No. 1: The World is not the News. Remember that, please. Constantly factor into international events -- yourself, your friends, your work and love. The civic valor of your life. Even, why not, your pets? Done that? Forget to do that sometimes? Me, too. Like, daily. Feel some better? The News is not the World and vice versa. Got it?
Look, I need to confess: this year I've filled 10 legal pads (the long ones, in yellow and therefore un-recyclable, I fear). My confession is not this jotting down of our moral and economic woes: it's that I don't know what I hope to accomplish by such botched voodoo recipes for a return to order. My math is weakish, so maybe it's just me, but: Merrill Lynch projects 2.1 percent national growth for the entire 1990's, and growth in the whole 1930's was just 2.2 percent. Oh, dear.
Notice how President Bush, when asked if he really has a "Domestic Agenda" frowns even more than usual -- like the husband on a 50's TV family comedy, a guy peeved at his wife's requesting that he please take out the garbage? Isn't that because he believes "Domestic" means woman's work is and therefore beneath him? "International" is more guys' stuff -- hunter-gatherer, etc. Home is where Dad's clean shirts are stored for travel to Important Conferences. "Domestic" is just female; no news for bosses. America's financial well-being? Don't sweat it: just Home-Ec.
When did the 18th century's "Yes" -- "The Pursuit of Happiness" -- become 1991's line-item veto? Can a statesman create himself (much less a new world order) with 24 vetoes? If F.D.R. had said only "no" to all conferences concerning the cure for polio, would it have ended yet? But then, F.D.R. could afford to be compassionate; he had the polls and he also had polio. Would President Bush finally mention this epidemic if he or some family member were H.I.V. positive, instead of S.& L. negative?
William Faulkner was forever asked if he felt threatened by Ernest Hemingway. Hemingway was the first "serious" writer to do magazine whisky endorsements, but not, alas, the last. Faulkner provided another sort of endorsement: he contributed his 1950 Nobel Prize, $150,000, to found the PEN-Faulkner Prize for encouraging young writers. Faulkner, in speaking of Hemingway, might have been describing 1991 America itself: "I thought that he found out early what he could do, and he stayed inside of that. What he did, he could do marvelously well, first rate. [But] to try something you can't do, to try and fail, then try it again. That to me is success. My generation will be judged by the splendor of our failures."
April 1991: Saw my first Ninja Turtle yarmulke. No comment. Dwarf-tossing becomes Australia's sport of choice. No further comment.
Cut to Joe Biden's on-off smile switcheroo, cut to Teddy Kennedy's features -- the portrait of Dorian Gray. Cut to Orrin Hatch's strangula-
tingly tight pinned collar of a face, Alan Simpson's forehead's smirk, Dennis DeConcini's imitation of Anthony Hopkins's Hannibal Lecter, Arlen Specter doing a late-Dickens hand-wringing sneak. Run screaming from the room. Is this any world to bring children into?
The Girl Scouts of America now offer a "stress management" merit badge. Product endorsements have been sold by the Boy Scouts of America. Famous brands like Coca-Cola are shown stitched alongside beavers and woodland streams on those precious merit badges that once indicated merely "Citizenship," "God and Country." Smart move, corporate America!
O, who shall lead us? Where -- democrat or republican -- is the self-styled hero of our time? Who will guard the guards, O and who will judge the judges, and who will lead our Leaders past their one Religion: Re-election? Who will someday lead them into leading us? And can a chain be pushed along the ground?
The most poignant opening of any Grimm fairy tale runs: "Once upon a time, when wishing still helped . . . . " Once, I read just one paper daily; now it's up to three. In 1991, I needed my first reading glasses; the front page had shrunk to the want ads' scale. Now I reconcile editorial opinion: every regional and ethnic conflict gets Rashomoned and squared. And why? What am I controlling? How can I help by merely knowing, not doing? Isn't knowing a form of doing? God, I hope so. It's what so many of us have just now. Alone in a room, complaining and appalled, don't we know we're not Amnesty International? But we're on watch, a job unsalaried yet often more important (to us) than our paying occupations.
I want to say I saw it. I want to say I looked it in the eye. I called in sick during the Iraq war, I called in sick during the Thomas hearings . . . and, watching, I soon found I was, in fact, quite sick. Can you catch, from proximity to a televised ethical sewer, a case of actual flu?
Danny, a friend and fellow news co-dependent, decided, on his doctor's advice, and with his pals' concerned second opinions, to retreat. It'd become medical; this guy was so strung out on recent happenings. Whenever people talked about anything else, Danny knew they meant The News.
Doc told him: Choose some B+ Caribbean resort without radios or papers (no Spanish ones either), just cabanas on the beach, fresh fruit and sweet floral smells drifting from the jungle. Danny, guilty, sunned there, uninformed, alone on the hot white sand. He admitted to feeling phantom pains, especially during the hours for "All Things Considered"; he hummed its valiant theme song. Simplifying, face-up, he cooked there. Finally, Danny felt whole and brown, reknitted into something like a soul. He felt less the communal scorekeeper, he felt -- hey! -- almost autobiographical again. My bronzed pal rode a 10-seater air-hop stateside.
The minute he plunged into the terminal (spooked at noticing how Miami International Airport's luggage is abbreviated "MIA"), he sensed he'd wandered onto the set of a disaster film. Something awful had happened, he just knew. And it'd gone and happened without him. He saw strangers bunched around newspapers: "TEL AVIV BOMBED AGAIN!"
"I've been punished." So ran his first egocentric paranoid-sounding and utterly familiar thought. Was some joke being played on him? He buttonholed a stranger; he admitted with a shame greater than any sexual shame, "I'm afraid I've been . . . outta . . . touch."
So the guy told him: Iraqi missiles, containing germ, chemical or nuclear stuff, are flying right now toward Israel. "No!" my pal said, "No?" "Yes, sorry," the anonymous salesman nodded. And this pair looked at each other, joined briefly -- seeming united as nothing else on earth.
Laden with newspapers, Danny rushed to the airline counter. All he needed to know: the gate number of his prepaid round-trip flight home. Then he saw how the big blue letters that'd once spelled "Eastern" had been pulled off a wall's wood-grained Formica. Gone, too, all personnel -- even their phones were missing, just a tangle of cords left. It'd all been reduced to a single 3 x 5 notecard Scotch-taped to the fake monkey-pod wood counter: "Hi 'n Bye! Eastern airlines Is Out of Business, folks. Try and see if other lines will honor your tickets? Was real while it lasted. Have a nice whatever . . . thanks, Staff, Eastern."
I want to tell you what I've done to help myself avoid this addiction, or soften it some. (A) One day a week I quit infotainment, cold turkey. (B) When I see people doing anything very, very well (from street-sweeping to brain surgery) I tell them so at once. (C) I now subscribe to several newspapers so local they can only be called papers because they are printed on that. I mean those smudged bulletins that specialize in peddling used lawn mowers. They run photos of the four local Girl Scouts who volunteered their whole summer's Saturdays picking up trash along our highway. And none got tetanus or abducted, hooray!
Watching the sea-sickening motion of the Six o'Clock World Roundup might simulate personal movement, but no action is achieved. Beyond heartburn and eyestrain. What amnesia makes us forget that we ourselves belong to this Age? We discount local knowledge. We underrate our own street's Love and Work.
Goethe, forever news, was the last great leader in both art and science. He was brought up to believe in wishing, to believe that the world of physics can be Toy as well as Weapon. He was taught that learning, combined with wishing, can still help. His mother, late in her life, recalled spinning mythic news for him in nightly fables.
"Air, fire, water and earth I presented to [my boy] as beautiful princesses, and everything in all nature took on a deeper meaning. We invented roads between stars, and what great minds we would encounter. He devoured me with his eyes; and if the fate of one of his favorites did not go as he wished, this I could see from the anger in his face. Occasionally he interfered by saying, 'Mother, the princess will not marry the miserable tailor, even if he slays the giant,' at which I stopped and postponed the catastrophe, and said, 'You guessed it, that's how it came out.' And he was all excited and one could see his heart beating."
Of course we study news in hopes of controlling it, right? We tell stories in hope of giving our own baggy lives the illusion of a clean beginning, fruitful middle, dignified ending -- life's logic, clarity, force, right?
So, for 1992? Factor your life into our Age. Tithe? Fight the TV trance. Consider the kindness of strangers and the unaccountable strangeness of kindness. Still, quantum: the human factor.
Eyes hurt? Sun seem brighter? (Well, it is. Science will tell you; any garden catalogue shows the change.) But there's Good News; red wine cuts your cholesterol. Caffeine can prolong a person's sex life (somehow, unscientific with faith, I just knew it). They found an ice age man intact, and a new planet. A fresh crack at getting it right.
Fellow news junkie and hope junkie? Happy New Year. And, for all your guarding energy during 1991, thank you. Here at the barricade, I've felt your shoulder against mine. Sometimes, it's seemed like a hostage situation, hasn't it? But I will wish you a joyful and possible 1992 . . . if you will please tell me one last time that wishing still helps. It does, doesn't it. Doesn't it?
News without end, Amen,
and here we go again.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETY NINE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ETHICS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: GURGANUS, ALLAN GEORGE W BUSH (55%); CLARENCE THOMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1991

 
