

401 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Officials Fear Bomb Design Went to Others

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROAD; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and William J. Broad from New York. Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from London.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Four years after Abdul Qadeer Khan, the leader of the world's largest black market in nuclear technology, was put under house arrest and his operation declared shattered, international inspectors and Western officials are confronting a new mystery, this time over who may have received blueprints for a sophisticated and compact nuclear weapon found on his network's computers.
 Working in secret for two years, investigators have tracked the digitized blueprints to Khan computers in Switzerland, Dubai, Malaysia and Thailand. The blueprints are rapidly reproducible for creating a weapon that is relatively small and easy to hide, making it potentially attractive to terrorists.
 The revelation this weekend that the Khan operation even had such a bomb blueprint underscores the questions that remain about what Dr. Khan, a Pakistani metallurgist and the father of Pakistan's nuclear weapons program, was selling and to whom. It also raises the possibility that he may still have sensitive material. 
 Yet even as inspectors and intelligence officials press their investigation of Dr. Khan, officials in Pakistan have declared the scandal over and have discussed the possibility of setting him free. In recent weeks, American officials have privately warned the new government in Pakistan about the dangers of doing so.
 ''We've been very direct with them that releasing Khan could cause a world of trouble,'' a senior administration official who has been involved in the effort said last week. ''The problem with Pakistan these days is that you never know who is making the decision -- the army, the intelligence agencies, the president or the new government.''
 The illicit nuclear network run by Dr. Khan was broken up in early 2004. President Bush, eager for an intelligence victory after the failure to find unconventional weapons in Iraq, declared that ending Dr. Khan's operation was a major coup for the United States. Since then, evidence has emerged that the network sold uranium enrichment technology to Iran, North Korea and Libya. Investigators are still pursuing leads that he may have done business with other countries.
 Dr. Khan is an expert in centrifuges used to produce enriched uranium for bomb fuel, and much of the technology he sold involved enrichment. But it was only in recent months that officials have begun to confirm that they had found the electronic design for a bomb itself among material seized from some of Dr. Khan's top lieutenants, a Swiss family, the Tinners. 
 The same design documents were found in computers in three other locations connected to Khan operatives, according to a senior foreign diplomat involved in the investigation. 
 American officials and inspectors at the International Atomic Energy Agency say they have been unable to determine if the weapon blueprints were sold to Iran or other customers of the smuggling ring.
 The blueprints bear a strong resemblance to weapons tested by Pakistan a decade ago, said two senior diplomats involved in the investigation. Pakistani officials have balked at providing much information about the newly revealed warhead design, just as they have refused to allow the C.I.A. or international atomic inspectors to directly interrogate Dr. Khan, who is still considered a national hero in Pakistan for helping it become a nuclear weapons state.
 Pakistani officials insist that Dr. Khan, as the leader of a uranium enrichment program, had no weapons access. But this is the second weapons design found in his smuggling network. The first was for an unwieldy but effective Chinese design from the mid-1960s that Libya acknowledged obtaining from the Khan network before it surrendered its bomb-making equipment in 2003.
 Both the new and the old designs exploit the principle of implosion, in which a blast wave from a sphere of conventional explosives squeezes inward with tremendous force to compress a ball of bomb fuel, starting the chain reaction and the atomic explosion. A nuclear official in Europe familiar with the Khan investigation said the new design was powerful but miniaturized -- using about half the uranium fuel of the older design to produce a greater explosive force.
 ''Pakistan cannot put the big China design on any of its rockets,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the information is classified. ''It's too big.'' A smaller warhead created from the new design, he added, is ''more efficient and easier to hide,'' meaning that one day it might become a ''terrorist issue.''
 China first exploded the old design in 1966, nuclear experts say, and Pakistan fired the miniaturized version in 1998. 
 Nuclear experts said a warhead built from the new design was small enough to fit atop a family of medium-range missiles that derive from North Korea's Nodong class of missiles. Those missiles include Pakistan's Ghauri and Iran's Shahab. All are about four feet wide, and any warhead atop them must, by definition, be smaller. 
 In interviews in Vienna, Islamabad and Washington, officials have said that the weapons design was far more sophisticated than the blueprints discovered in Libya in 2003, when Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi gave up his country's nuclear weapons program. The design is electronic, they said, making it easy to copy -- and they have no idea how many copies, if any, are circulating.
 On Sunday, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, said that the administration remained concerned about the possibility that additional plans had been disseminated, but he did not address any of the latest revelations, which were reported Sunday by The Washington Post and The New York Times. ''We're very concerned about the A. Q. Khan network,'' he told reporters traveling with Mr. Bush from Paris to London. 
 The existence of the compact bomb design began to become public in recent weeks after Switzerland announced that it had destroyed a huge stockpile of documents, including weapons designs, that were found in computers belonging to Friedrich Tinner and his two sons, Marco and Urs, all arrested as part of the Khan investigation. 
 Switzerland's president, Pascal Couchepin, said in late May that the government had destroyed the documents to keep atomic materials from ''getting into the hands of a terrorist organization or an unauthorized state.'' 
 Two former Bush administration officials said they believed that the Tinners had provided information to the C.I.A. while the father and two sons were still working for Dr. Khan and that some of their information helped American and British officials intercept shipments of centrifuges en route to Libya in 2003.
 When news of that interception became public and Libya turned its $100 million program over to American and atomic energy agency officials, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan forced Dr. Khan to issue a vague confession and then placed him under house arrest. Dr. Khan has since renounced that confession in Pakistani and Western news media, saying he made it only to save Pakistan greater embarrassment.
 It was not until 2005 that officials of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which is based in Vienna, finally cracked the hard drives on the Khan computers recovered around the world. And as they sifted through files and images on the hard drives, investigators found tons of material -- orders for equipment, names and places where the Khan network operated, even old love letters. 
 ''There was stuff about dealing with Iranians in 2003, about how to avoid intelligence agents,'' said one official who had reviewed it. But the most important document was a digitized design for a nuclear bomb, one that investigators quickly recognized as Pakistani.
 ''It was plain where this came from,'' a senior official of the atomic energy agency said. ''But the Pakistanis want to argue that the Khan case is closed, and so they have said very little.''
 In public statements, Pakistani officials have insisted that the Khan ''incident,'' as they call it, is now history, and they publicly declared nearly two years ago that their investigations were over.
 A senior Pakistani official said that in April that the information provided by the atomic energy agency was ''vague and incomplete,'' and he insisted that because Dr. Khan's laboratories specialized in manufacturing equipment needed to enrich uranium, ''he was not involved in weapons designs.''
 But atomic energy agency investigators and American intelligence officials say they have little doubt that he was the source of the digitized bomb design. ''Clearly, someone had tried to modernize it, to improve the electronics,'' one said. ''There were handwritten references to the electronics, and the question is, who was working on this?''
 The officials said that parts of the design were coded so that they could be transferred quickly to an automated manufacturing system.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters last month in Islamabad, Pakistan, sought an end to the house arrest of Abdul Qadeer Khan, a nuclear weapons expert. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER MATTHYS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); HOUSE ARREST (73%); TERRORISM (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CENTRIFUGES (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); THAILAND (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



402 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: An Emotional Urge to Get Up and 'Gro'

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
An energetic new campaign that urges consumers to go outdoors and get their hands dirty looks and sounds as if it could be promoting brands like Gore-Tex, Jeep, North Face, Range Rover or Patagonia.
 The actual sponsor can be inferred from the upbeat theme, ''It's Gro Time.''
 Indeed, the Miracle-Gro line of gardening products, sold by the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company, is behind the emotional campaign. That is surprising because until now its marketing efforts have been sedate, even a bit stodgy.
 The new campaign is by the same creative agency that Miracle-Gro has used for several years, ML Rogers in New York. And Mediaedge:cia in New York, part of the GroupM division of the WPP Group, remains the media agency. 
 But the more assertive attitude and younger tone for the campaign represent a sea change -- or, in this instance, maybe a land change is a more accurate way to put it.
 ''It's time for your dirt manicure,'' declares the headline of one print advertisement.
 ''It's time to find your tomato mojo,'' the headline of another print ad proclaims. (And remember, home-grown tomatoes are salmonella-free tomatoes.)
 ''Grow a little you in the yard,'' advises a statement on the home page of a new Web site dedicated to the campaign (itsgrotime.com). ''Vibrant veggies or far-out flowers -- be creative, get out there and express yourself.''
 Resource Interactive in Columbus, Ohio, worked with an internal team at Scotts Miracle-Gro on tasks that included the new microsite.
 Television commercials take a similar tack to the print and online ads. In one spot, an announcer tells viewers that ''it's time to jump-start the geraniums and dial up the daisies.''
 In a second commercial, the announcer borrows a slogan from the 1960s. ''It's time,'' he says. ''It's time to discover the power of flowers.''
 The campaign is emblematic of efforts by advertisers to periodically update how they peddle their products, reflecting the continuous changes -- demographic and psychographic -- that are taking place among consumers.
 Such efforts are risky because they can turn off the customers a brand is trying to reach while putting off the customers the brand already has.
 A notable failure was the effort by General Motors to give a newer sheen to its Oldsmobile division with a campaign that carried the theme ''This is not your father's Oldsmobile. This is the new generation of Olds.'' Sales kept falling and not long after, G.M. discontinued the brand.
 For decades, ads for Miracle-Gro were focused on product attributes and benefits, making claims about the size and robustness of the flowers and vegetables that could be grown by using its garden soil, potting mix and other plant foods.
 ''We had a much more functional message, 'Grows plants twice as big,' which we have been saying for years and years and years,'' says Jan Valentic, senior vice president at Scotts Miracle-Gro in Marysville, Ohio.
 ''What we're trying to do now is attract more people to the activity of gardening,'' she adds, with the message that Miracle-Gro ''is a product that helps Mother Nature be all she can be, and more so.''
 At the same time, Ms. Valentic says, the campaign is ''aimed at people who are already engaged in gardening'' and are already familiar with the Miracle-Gro brand.
 For both types of consumers, ''we're showing how gardening can be an expression of creativity,'' she adds, which is ''a new piece of communication for us.''
 ''We want to get people to think of gardening as a great pastime,'' Ms. Valentic says. ''Ideally, I'd love to have gardening considered, regarded as sexy as cooking.''
 And as ''the dominant brand in the category,'' she adds, Miracle-Gro would most likely be a beneficiary of any big influx of gardeners.
 Miracle-Gro also sought to update its pitches in 2002, when the venerable actor James Whitmore, who had been the public face of the brand in ads since 1982, was replaced by the actor Peter Strauss. At the time, Mr. Whitmore was 80 and Mr. Strauss was 55.
 A commercial that was part of the 2002 campaign featured the song ''You Sexy Thing'' by the 1970s rock band Hot Chocolate, known for the lyric ''I believe in miracles.'' The song is returning for the TV commercials that are part of the new campaign.
 The changes being made now ''came out of a lot of research we had done over the years,'' says Mike Rogers, president at ML Rogers, who worked on Miracle-Gro when he was at the Wolf Group New York agency. (When the Wolf Group, based in Toronto, collapsed, Mr. Rogers opened his own shop with clients of the New York office like Scotts Miracle-Gro.)
 Among the research findings were that ''a lot of young people'' were getting into gardening, Mr. Rogers says, becoming ''passionate about it'' not only because they found it fun but also because they perceived it as ''gratifying and fulfilling.''
 To appeal to them is one reason the campaign ''is saying, 'Get off your butt, go outside, stick your hands into the soil and grow something,''' he adds.
 The emphasis on getting dirty is no accident, according to Janique Helson, director for client services at ML Rogers, for it represents the intangible benefits of gardening.
 ''For some people it's emotional, for some people it's spiritual, for some people it's exercise,'' Ms. Helson says.
 ''But the brand wasn't tapping into that,'' she adds, ''because we were all about the efficacy'' of Miracle-Gro products -- and that was losing its efficacy as an ad theme because ''everyone knows Miracle-Gro works.''
 Presenting the brand as more contemporary, Ms. Helson says, in ways that include casting the ads with actors who are ''younger and fresher,'' is not like Oldsmobile because in this instance, she says, Miracle-Gro ''is not a dated brand.''
 ''We have the permission to go there,'' Ms. Helson says of the campaign, for the Miracle-Gro brand ''is fresh because of what it does.''
 The executives at ML Rogers and Scotts Miracle-Gro are describing the campaign as the most integrated for Miracle-Gro because it includes television, radio, promotions, public relations, direct mail, sampling and the increased presence online.
 The ''Gro Time'' microsite is in addition to the regular Web site for the brand (miraclegro.com). The microsite will give consumers the opportunity ''to share stories, tips and tricks,'' Ms. Valentic says, as well as to ''upload images and videos'' and have questions answered by ''agronomists and other experts.''
 ''We want to build a groundswell around gardening,'' she adds, ''and be that go-to resource as a problem-solver and imagination-provider.'' 
 The bulked-up Internet presence also includes buying key search words, a tactic known as search engine optimization.
 ''We try to capture how consumers are going to search for something, how they describe it,'' Ms. Valentic says.
 ''It's a category where people don't always know the terminology,'' she adds. ''They don't know the type of grass they have, ryegrass or Zoysia or crabgrass.''
 As for the campaign starting as the home market nationally is suffering so many problems, Ms. Valentic says, ''we're more dependent on good weather than the economy.''
 ''Even in bad economic times, if we have good weather we have good business results,'' she adds. ''Consumers might spend a few hours or an afternoon planting annuals or remulching. The amount of time it's enjoyed is disproportionate to the amount of time spent.''
 Mr. Rogers and Ms. Helson both describe themselves as avid users of Miracle-Gro in their personal and professional lives.
 Professional? ''We have the rights to the roof deck'' atop the building where the ML Rogers office is located, Mr. Rogers says. ''We call it the Miracle-Gro R&D Facility.''
 ''Every spring, we plant stuff,'' he adds. ''We've grown tomatoes and strawberries and herbs.''
 ''When you go up to the roof and you see a cucumber or tomato that wasn't there a few days ago,'' Mr. Rogers says, ''it's pretty amazing.''
 With the new approach for Miracle-Gro under way for this season, Ms. Valentic says, ''we have interesting things up our sleeves for next season for Ortho,'' which is among the herbicides that Scotts Miracle-Gro also sells.
 ''It's one of our killing brands,'' she adds, laughing. ''We have growing brands and killing brands.''
 Asked if that isn't being just a wee bit callous, to quote a line from the movie ''North by Northwest,'' Ms. Valentic replies: ''A weed is just a plant in the wrong place.''
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that appears Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times newspaper and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); GARDENING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); WEB SITES (64%); BACTERIA (51%)

COMPANY: SCOTTS MIRACLE-GRO CO (83%); DENTSU INC (58%); WPP PLC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: SMG (NYSE) (83%); 4324 (TSE) (58%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (57%); WPP (LSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2873 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (71%); OHIO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



403 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.97 percent, the rate on the six-month issue was 2.29 percent and the rate on the four-week issue was 1.85 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
 TUESDAY
 Miami-Dade County, Fla., $271.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 New Mexico, $73.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Norfolk, Va., $158.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 WEDNESDAY
 Anderson County School District No. 5, S.C., $77 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 American Municipal Power, Ohio, $400 million of revenue bonds for Prairie State Energy Campus project. JPMorgan Securities.
 Bexar County, Tex., $70.7 million of combination flood control tax and revenue certificates of obligation bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co.
 Bexar County, Tex., $54.5 million of certificates of obligation. Merrill Lynch.
 City of Garland, Tex., $77.3 million of general obligation bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 City of Memphis, $93 million of electric system revenue and refunding bonds. Morgan Keegan & Co.
 Conroe Independent School District, Tex., $100 million of school bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 County of Lake, Ohio, $75 million of refunding bonds for Lake Hospital System. Lehman Brothers.
 Dormitory Authority of the State of New York, $622 million of debt securities for New York University. Morgan Stanley & Co.
 Kentucky Housing Corp., $50 million of housing revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Louisiana State University, $51 million of auxiliary revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan & Co.
 Mansfield Independent School District, Tex., $80 million of debt securities. Morgan Keegan.
 Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $146.7 million of revenue bonds for the Johns Hopkins Health System. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 New Jersey Educational Facilities Authority, $87.1 million of debt securities for William Paterson University. RBC Capital Markets.
 New York State Urban Development Corp., $441.5 million of service contract revenue refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 Oregon, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority, $141.7 million of economic development revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Pima County, Ariz., $50 million of certificates of participation. RBC Capital Markets.
 Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, $800.8 million of debt securities. JPMorgan Securities.
 Redlands Unified School District, Calif., $50 million of general obligation bonds. Piper Jaffray.
 Redondo Beach Unified School District, Calif., $50 million of general obligation bonds. Piper Jaffray.
 Renown Health System, Nev., $172 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 San Joaquin Delta Community College District, Calif., $100 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Sparks, Nev., $77 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 State of California, $1.5 billion of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 State of Connecticut, $400 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, Tex., $62.9 million of lease revenue certificates of participation. Rice Financial Products Co.
 Tobacco Settlement Revenue Management Authority, S.C., $298.3 million of tobacco settlement asset-backed refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 University of Houston, Tex., $223.6 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 West Palm Beach, Fla., $55 million of debt securities for utility system. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Wilmington, Del., $72.2 million of general obligation bonds. Depfa First Albany Securities.
 Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $101 million of debt securities for Children's Hospital. Goldman, Sachs & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SCHOOL BONDS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); CITIES (68%); HOSPITALS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); PJC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



404 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: In Poll, Taxes and the Economy Are New Yorkers' Top Worries

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson, elevated unexpectedly to the job three months ago, has won the support of nearly half of New Yorkers, according to a New York Times poll. But many of those surveyed are increasingly worried about the economy and taxes and uncertain about the governor's ability to address those problems.
 Mr. Paterson, a Democrat who took over in March after the abrupt resignation of Eliot Spitzer, is enjoying something of a honeymoon with the public, despite admissions on his first full day in office that he had had several extramarital affairs.
 Forty-nine percent of respondents approved of his job performance, and only 16 percent disapproved. Still, Mr. Paterson is largely unknown to New Yorkers, and more than a third of those polled did not express an opinion. And nearly 60 percent of those polled said the state was on the wrong track, expressing a view less bleak than Americans have shown in nationwide polls concerning the country's direction, but still indicating widespread pessimism. 
 The poll also showed that the once overwhelming support among black New Yorkers for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who bowed out of the presidential race little more than a week ago, had fallen sharply after her contentious primary battle with Senator Barack Obama. While nearly 90 percent of black voters had a favorable opinion of Mrs. Clinton in 2006, when she was running for re-election to the Senate, now 55 percent express favorable views. 
 Mrs. Clinton's job approval rating among all New Yorkers, at 61 percent, remains high but has also slipped.
 In a head-to-head match-up, the survey showed, Mr. Obama leads Senator John McCain in the state, 51 percent to 32 percent. 
 The poll, a telephone survey of 1,062 adults throughout the state, was conducted between June 6 and 11 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The survey began after it was clear that Mrs. Clinton would withdraw from the presidential race, and a week after The New York Times reported that Governor Paterson had directed state agencies to revise their policies and regulations to recognize same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions.
 New Yorkers were sharply divided about Mr. Paterson's move; forty-eight percent of respondents supported recognizing the marriages, while 46 percent were opposed. On the broader question of whether gay couples should be allowed to marry, 38 percent of New Yorkers said yes, while 28 percent supported civil unions but not marriage. Twenty-nine percent said there should be no legal recognition of a gay couple's relationship. 
 ''As a practicing Catholic I feel same-sex unions go against marriage,'' said Kathleen Carlsen, 55, a homemaker from Long Island who identified herself as an independent in a follow-up interview. ''I think if you talked to a Jewish person or a Muslim, they would feel the same way. I feel for homosexuals, but I don't think they should be granted the same status or have the same rights.''
 Patricia Aller, 78, a retiree on the Upper West Side, said: ''I have friends and neighbors who are homosexuals, and I think they are entitled to the same privileges as everyone else.''
 The survey showed, however, that concerns about gay marriage and other social issues were taking a back seat to worries about the economy. 
 Asked what problem they most wanted the governor to concentrate on, half of those surveyed mentioned the economy, taxes, unemployment or gas prices. Twelve percent cited rising gas prices as the top problem. And while education was cited as the top problem a decade ago by nearly a quarter of those surveyed, only 9 percent named it in the latest poll. 
 ''I just look up and down my road and see a lot of houses in foreclosure,'' said Ellen Kieweg, a 68-year-old retiree from New Lebanon, who identified herself as an independent. ''Seniors are being pushed out. But it's also young people who have lived here with their families all their lives, and they have to leave the community to find jobs.''
 Forty-two percent of respondents said their family's financial situation was worse than it was four years ago, while only 22 percent said it was better. And opinions are more downbeat outside of New York City and its suburbs, which have been somewhat insulated from the job losses and soaring property taxes faced upstate. 
 In recent weeks, Mr. Paterson has embraced a proposal to prohibit school districts from raising property taxes by more than 4 percent and toured the state to drum up support for the issue. But the proposal faces stiff opposition in the Legislature.
 Forty-five percent of those polled said they lacked confidence in the governor's ability to reduce property taxes. Thirty-seven percent had some confidence in his ability, and 9 percent had a lot of confidence that he could reduce property taxes. 
 While nearly 60 percent said Mr. Paterson had strong leadership qualities, less than half, or 46 percent, expressed confidence in his ability to deal with a serious crisis. Thirty-three percent said they were uneasy about his approach, and 21 percent had no opinion. 
 Many said they felt that they were still getting to know the governor. 
 ''I'm not familiar with Paterson's work up to now, and I want to give him more time before I pass judgment,'' said Rembert Brown, 86, a Republican retiree from Long Island. 
 Yolanda Keller, 23, a personal assistant and Democrat from Albany, said: ''It's hard to have a valid opinion yet as to the job he's doing,'' adding, ''there's so much corruption in New York, I feel like I'm just waiting for him to screw up.''
 At the same time, some respondents in follow-up interviews expressed a fascination about the governor and a respect for his ability to rise in politics despite the fact he is legally blind. 
 ''It is amazing that a black blind man could rise up to the position he's in,'' Mrs. Keller said. 
 Mr. Paterson was Mr. Spitzer's running mate in 2006 and has said he planned to run for election as governor in 2010. His electoral prospects, and potential opponents, have been the topic of fervent speculation in political circles and in the press. But Mr. Paterson's favorability ratings held up well when compared with those of people who have been discussed as potential opponents. 
 The poll held some good news for state Republicans, who are in a fight this year to hold onto their narrow majority in the Senate, their last statewide power base. Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader and the state's top Republican, has said preserving Republican rule of the Senate helps maintain a check on the Democrats. 
 Preserving that two-party rule had support. Sixty percent of those polled said they would prefer that different parties controlled the two houses of the Legislature. 
 Whatever their feelings about the two parties, or Mr. Paterson, New Yorkers generally agree that Mr. Spitzer made the right decision when he resigned. 
 Less than two years after he was elected by a landslide, 70 percent of those polled said it was for the best that Mr. Spitzer stepped down after reports that he was the client of a prostitution ring. Only 17 percent said Mr. Spitzer was unfairly pursued by law enforcement officials. 
 The poll showed strong support for state Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. Some 58 percent approve of how Mr. Cuomo is doing his job, and 16 percent disapproved.
 Follow-up interviews with black voters showed that Mrs. Clinton had some work to do among that constituency as a result of the bruising Democratic presidential primary fight. A third of black voters described her campaign as mostly negative in tone, and about the same number said that either the senator or former President Bill Clinton used race in an offensive way during the campaign.
 Bronical McRae, 49, an African-American from Brooklyn, said: ''When Bill compared Barack Obama to Jesse Jackson, he said it flippantly, and she shouldn't have run with it. All she had to do was say, 'It's all about experience, and I have the experience.' ''
 Clementine Foy, 79, a retired African-American teacher from the Bronx, said: ''I think she felt like she was entitled and he just shouldn't be running against her, like where did he come from out of the blue?''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: VOTERS' BIGGEST CONCERNS: Percentage of New Yorkers who named these problems as those the governor should concentrate on, led by economic issues, including taxes and the relatively new issue of gasoline prices. Voters' confidence in the state's economy is ebbing, with only a third saying the economy is in good shape, lower than after technology stocks crashed and 9/11. POLITICAL LEADERS: Statewide, Senator Barack Obama is mostly regarded favorably, but Senator John McCain is not. Gov. David A. Paterson has high favorability ratings, but nearly half of voters are still undecided. Based on telephone interviews conducted June 6-11 statewide with 1,062 adults, of whom 931 said they were registered to vote. (pg. B4) Graphs showing what voters' are mainly concerned about in the coming presidential election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



405 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Late Deal Pulls OTB From Brink Of Shutdown

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Confusion and discord gave way to handshakes on Sunday as Gov. David A. Paterson and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg agreed on a deal authorizing the state to take over the city's Off-Track Betting Corporation while still granting the city a share of gambling revenues.
 The agreement allows the city's 68 OTB parlors to open on Monday, averting a shutdown the mayor had threatened for Sunday that would have put hundreds of people out of work. 
 The political wrangling between Mr. Paterson and Mr. Bloomberg had taken a sharper turn on Friday when Mr. Paterson announced a deal to keep OTB open at a news conference at which no one from the Bloomberg administration was present. 
 If the city's parlors had closed, the city would have lost 1,500 jobs, while the state would have no longer reaped millions of dollars in contributions that had helped sustain other OTB operations around the state as well as New York's horse-racing industry.
 ''The finalization of this agreement is a win for the state, a win for the city of New York and a win for the people whose livelihoods depend on a well-run OTB,'' Governor Paterson said in a statement released at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday, 15 minutes after OTB parlors had closed their doors for the day in the city and workers had gone home unsure of what Monday would bring. 
 ''Working with state leaders, we have put out to pasture a fiscally flawed arrangement with OTB -- one that threatened to divert city funds from police and fire protection, public schools, and other essential services,'' Mayor Bloomberg said in a statement on Sunday. On Friday, hours after the governor announced a plan to take over the city's parlors, the mayor issued a statement rejecting the proposal that seemed to take Mr. Paterson by surprise. The mayor said that the governor's proposal lacked provisions that would have allowed the city to continue to receive a share of the revenue from a surcharge on winning bets. 
 What followed were two days of meetings and conference calls that turned contentious at times, as officials with the Bloomberg administration insisted that the city receive some kind of recompense for the races and parlors it hosts.
 Under the new proposal, the city will earn some $4 million from the winning-bets surcharge and $3.25 million more annually as part of a three-year agreement that lets OTB air its races on two city television channels.
 The state will assume all financial responsibilities for the operation through a public benefit corporation. The deal will be submitted for approval by the Legislature on Monday, but officials said that the vote should be a formality, since the deal had the blessings of the state's most powerful legislators: the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat.
 The city's Off-Track Betting operation is the largest and most lucrative in the state, generating almost one-third of the $2.7 billion that is wagered on horse races statewide and yielding $125 million in profits each year. The revenue is distributed among the city, the state and the racing industry based on a formula that the mayor said had so shortchanged the city that it would have had to subsidize the parlors next year.
 For months, Mayor Bloomberg and several members of the City Council had been urging the state to change the formula and effectively save OTB. The costs of financing the operation were expected to outweigh the city's revenue next year, which would have forced the city to use taxpayers' money to keep the parlors open. The mayor refused to do so.
 ''New York City is not going to lay off one cop, one firefighter or one teacher so that we can support a bookie operation. Period. End of story,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during a news conference on Thursday. ''This Sunday is the last day. If the state wants to take it over, fine. I'm happy to let them do it.''
 Officials in the Paterson administration said on Sunday that they thought the mayor would have agreed with the takeover plan the governor announced on Friday. What followed instead, one official said, was a strong rebuke by Mr. Bloomberg, who stood firm on his demands that the city receive the same $19 million in winning-bets revenue surcharge that it received last year.
 The $19 million took into account that the city was financially responsible for the 68 OTB parlors, which would no longer be the case under the governor's proposal, the official said. Both sides worked into late night on Saturday and resumed negotiations early on Sunday to resolve the problem, ultimately reaching an agreement just after noon.
 At an OTB parlor on Second Avenue between 69th and 70th Streets in Manhattan on Sunday, patrons -- most of them retired men above their 60s -- rejoiced at the news that the city and the state had worked out their differences. Ed Woods, a 78-year-old retired seafarer, said that losing OTB ''would have been tough on us retired people because we have no other place to go.''
 But Henry Birola, 51, a manager at the parlor, sounded a more cautious tone. ''When the ink dries up, and it's official, I will be relieved,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GAMING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CLOSINGS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); HORSE RACING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); APPROVALS (62%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



406 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2573 words

HEADLINE: After Feud and 2 Iraq Deaths, Soldiers and Families Are Torn

BYLINE: By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

 BODY:
Capt. Phillip Esposito and Staff Sgt. Alberto Martinez went to war together, two very different soldiers from the same New York National Guard unit. After five months in Iraq, a bombing sent both men back home, one in a coffin, the other in handcuffs, a suspect in his murder. 
 Captain Esposito, as straightforward as his M4 carbine, was an Eagle Scout and West Point graduate who built a civilian career as a computer specialist for a Wall Street investment bank. His service as a National Guard company commander, family members said, was a matter of honor and old-fashioned patriotism. 
 Sergeant Martinez came from a tougher background, documents and interviews show, and found camaraderie and discipline in military service. Transplanted from Puerto Rico as a teenager, he drifted through a series of part-time jobs after high school, taking community college classes in electronics. But he had a habit of playing by his own rules, some of his managers said, and lacked maturity. Rejected by the Army Reserve and Navy Reserve, he was fired by U.P.S. in 1999.
 The National Guard eventually admitted him on a waiver after three failed attempts to pass the military's standardized aptitude test. Working at the Watervliet Arsenal, near Albany, Sergeant Martinez strained to handle duties that called for more than basic clerical or mechanical work. 
 In January 2005, with the Iraq insurgency in violent bloom, the dutiful company commander and the struggling sergeant deployed with the 42nd Infantry Division to Kuwait and then to northern Iraq. At a forward operating base in Tikrit, under battlefield conditions in a hostile Sunni Arab region, a mutual distrust between Sergeant Martinez and Captain Esposito devolved into acrimony and, according to Army prosecutors, premeditated murder. 
 ''I want him to die,'' one soldier later testified he heard Sergeant Martinez say soon after their arrival in Iraq.
 On June 7 of that year, Sergeant Martinez detonated a Claymore mine he had placed in the window of Captain Esposito's quarters, Army prosecutors said, killing him and severely wounding a first lieutenant, Lou Allen, who died later in surgery. They said three hand grenades were also used in the attack.
 In the coming months, Sergeant Martinez is expected to face court-martial in the deaths. He has consistently maintained his innocence. If convicted, he would be eligible for the death penalty. 
 Attacks on soldiers by another soldier usually of a lower rank, known in military slang as ''fragging'' because a fragmentation grenade was often the weapon of choice, were an alarming problem during the Vietnam War but have been extremely rare in Iraq. The 2005 attack is only the second such case the Army has prosecuted since the beginning of the Iraq war. By comparison, in Vietnam in 1969 and 1970, the Army logged more than 300 attacks that killed 75 commissioned and noncommissioned officers, said Paul J. Springer, a history professor at West Point. 
 Experts attributed the dropoff to the professionalism and higher morale that came with the all-volunteer military instituted in 1973. ''With fragging, you're likely to find someone who never really fit into the military system, who probably felt like an outsider,'' said Dr. David Walker, a psychiatrist who served in the Air Force. 
 Prosecutors have argued that in this case, the evidence points squarely at Sergeant Martinez. 
 They said that he was the only soldier with access to grenades and Claymore mines who had repeatedly threatened the captain; that after the attack, investigators discovered a grenade crate in the sergeant's supply room bearing the same serial number as the one stamped on grenade parts found near the scene; that shortly before the attack, 10 grenades from Sergeant Martinez's supply area disappeared; and that immediately after the attack, he was seen wearing a Kevlar vest and standing in the road a few yards from where the mine's firing apparatus was found. 
 Army defense lawyers have argued that the evidence is circumstantial and does not come close to showing that their client, who remains in military custody in North Carolina, committed any crime. Many soldiers had access to grenades, they said, and serial numbers on grenade crates did not always match those on the grenades inside. 
 Moreover, they argued, Sergeant Martinez's statements about the captain ''were of a venting nature,'' and neither of the officers who testified that they heard them thought they were serious enough to report. 
 ''Their argument is far more persuasive than any of the evidence that was presented,'' one of the sergeant's military lawyers, Maj. E. John Gregory, said of prosecutors' case in a Nov. 1, 2005, hearing. ''They rely on inference and circumstance.'' 
 The deaths of Captain Esposito, 30, and Lieutenant Allen, 34, have led to a painful reckoning among their families. 
 Their widows, now raising five children between them, question why Sergeant Martinez, now 40, an underachiever rejected by other military branches, was accepted, promoted and sent to war by the National Guard. Within the 42nd Division, a proud unit with a distinguished history, questions linger over whether an embittered soldier's threats to kill his commander should have been taken seriously. 
 ''I'm convinced this was 100 percent preventable,'' said Captain Esposito's wife, Siobhan Esposito. ''This guy was a problem, and they knew he was a problem.''
 Barbara Allen, Lieutenant Allen's wife, said, ''We're never going to be free of this until the death penalty is carried out.''
 Sergeant Martinez's lawyers declined to comment for this article. A spokesman for the National Guard said he could not discuss an active case.
 Friction From the Start
 In a National Guard reliant on soldiers from divergent backgrounds, Captain Esposito and Sergeant Martinez never got along. The sergeant saw the captain as an arrogant taskmaster. To the captain, according to other soldiers in the unit, Sergeant Martinez was a knucklehead who lacked wartime discipline. Sergeant Martinez fumed none too quietly at what he saw as his young commander's hubris, telling another sergeant months before the explosion: ''I can't wait for him to get his.''
 ''When I meet the commander for the first time, he express himself to be better than me and other people,'' the sergeant wrote hours after the fatal explosion, in a sworn statement laced with grammatical and spelling errors. ''He never have respect for the lower enlisted personel.''
 There are no clear-cut rules about what, if anything, soldiers should do when another soldier makes threats against a superior. But though military culture tolerates grumbling, Sergeant Martinez's expressions of anger and violence toward his captain should have caused other officers to act, said Dr. Springer, the history professor. 
 ''That's the sort of thing that Martinez should have been brought up on charges for,'' he said. ''There's a huge difference between saying 'I hate that guy' and 'I want to kill that guy,' '' Dr. Springer added. ''You can't let that kind of thing go, because if you do, you're encouraging a breakdown in discipline.'' 
 By the time Phillip Esposito graduated with honors from Albertus Magnus High School, in Rockland County, in 1992, Alberto Martinez was a married father of two working as a part-time U.P.S. deliveryman around Albany. 
 After graduating in the top 10 percent of his class at West Point, Cadet Esposito became a first lieutenant and platoon leader in the Army's 66th Armor, Fourth Infantry Division, at Fort Hood, Tex., where he earned numerous commendations, including one in 1999 for ''dedication and professionalism.'' 
 ''He was one of the most meticulous people I ever met in my life,'' Staff Sgt. Ashvin Thimmaiah said of Captain Esposito during a 2005 military hearing on the evidence in the murder case. Rules and standards were always uppermost in the captain's mind. ''He followed them to the letter,'' Sergeant Thimmaiah said. ''He enforced it to the letter as well.''
 At his wife's urging, Captain Esposito left active duty in 2000, joined the National Guard and began a civilian career as a technology manager for Salomon Smith Barney in Lower Manhattan. 
 An Exception to Join
 Sergeant Martinez had been serving part-time as a Guardsman in 1999 when U.P.S. fired him, he said, for repeatedly failing to properly deliver packages. He collected state unemployment benefits for five months until the National Guard gave him a job verifying vehicle and weapons inventories at armories around the state. 
 Sergeant Martinez had needed special permission just to enter the military, after scoring in the 15th, 17th and 21st percentile in his attempts to pass its standardized aptitude battery between 1987 and 1990, according to records obtained by The New York Times. To pass, applicants must score above the 30th percentile. On Dec. 20, 1990, a Guard colonel granted him what is known as a Mental Category IV waiver, for recruits with low test scores who the service believes can be trained to be good soldiers. 
 Waivers have long been a touchy subject for a military that markets itself as being interested in only the most capable recruits. Since 2001, so-called mental and moral waivers, for enlistees with low test scores or scrapes with the law, have received increasing public and official scrutiny. 
 In the 1980s, roughly 10 percent of Army recruits required Category IV waivers. After the 1991 gulf war, the Pentagon restricted those recruits to less than 4 percent of new enlistees across all branches, David S. C. Chu, the Defense Department's undersecretary for personnel and readiness, said in a conference call with reporters last October. The New York National Guard grants roughly the same number of waivers as the Army over all. 
 In the late 1990s through 2002, Sergeant Martinez seemed to do well in the National Guard and was rated ''among the best'' soldiers by his superiors, who commended him for ''exceptional military bearing'' in 2000 and ''absolute loyalty to the unit'' in 2002, documents showed. At the same time, his U.P.S. managers repeatedly urged him to show improvement.
 Outside work, he also struggled. On the morning of Dec. 18, 2002, fire swept through his home in Cohoes, which he bought eight years earlier. Fire officials decided the cause was electrical. But his insurer, Liberty Mutual, refused to pay, believing Sergeant Martinez had set the fire to collect on his policy. 
 By January 2003, fed up with months of late payments, the mortgage holder, Wells Fargo, moved to foreclose on the home.
 In a brief interview, Sergeant Martinez's wife, Tamara Martinez, described him as a good husband and attentive father of two teenagers. ''He's got a family that loves him,'' she said. ''Albert is a terrific guy,'' she added, before politely ending the conversation. 
 By 2004, the war had begun its turn for the worse, and Guard units across the country were mobilized for active duty. That May, Captain Esposito was called up to Latham, N.Y., near Albany, and became the leader of the 42nd Division's Headquarters and Headquarters Company, a division-level supply and logistics company. 
 He was put in charge of a Guard company that was, by his standards, frustratingly informal and unfocused as it prepared to deploy to Iraq, soldiers said later in military court testimony. 
 Not everyone in the unit appreciated the captain's hut-to style. 
 As the unit counted the days to deployment, Captain Esposito scheduled more and more meetings; Sergeant Martinez, the unit's supply sergeant, seemed unable or unwilling to keep up with the myriad demands on him and grew increasingly bitter, soldiers said. 
 The unit relocated to Fort Drum, N.Y., late in 2004, after which the sergeant began threatening Captain Esposito to other soldiers, according to testimony. ''I could kill him; I want him to die,'' a major in the division testified hearing Sergeant Martinez say. 
 Increasing Acrimony
 By the time the company was ready to deploy to Kuwait, the relationship between the captain and the sergeant had reached a low point. 
 ''It wasn't pretty,'' Sgt. First Class Peggy Schumacher said of one heated argument between the two men. ''I was appalled.'' 
 Once in Tikrit, Sergeant Martinez, as supply sergeant, was doing the work normally handled by three or four people; the entire unit felt the pressure of operating in the heart of a Sunni insurgency. When the unit lost track of $30,000 worth of equipment, including night-vision goggles and radio encryption devices, the division command docked both Captain Esposito and Sergeant Martinez a month's pay. Each man blamed the other for the blunder, said Luis J. Badillo, a lieutenant and the company's executive officer at the time.
 ''My thought process at that time was to try to keep them as far apart and away from each other as possible,'' said Mr. Badillo, now a New York State Police trooper. 
 By late May, Captain Esposito began openly belittling Sergeant Martinez, soldiers said, and forbade him from even entering the supply room without an escort from a superior officer. Sometime that month, Sergeant Martinez, worried about losing his job, made threats against Captain Esposito in a conversation with another captain in the unit. 
 ''He said that he hated Esposito,'' that captain, Carl Prober, testified in 2005. Sergeant Martinez, in a profanity-laced tirade, threatened to ''frag'' Captain Esposito, Captain Prober said.
 In military court hearings examining the murder case, Captain Prober was not asked what, if any, action he took after hearing the threat. 
 Just days before the explosions, Lieutenant Allen, a friend of Captain Esposito's from Milford, Pa., and a high school science teacher, joined the unit to organize a supply function that under Sergeant Martinez had become, according to Mr. Badillo, a ''nightmare.'' 
 On June 5 or 6, Captain Esposito began a search to replace Sergeant Martinez as supply sergeant. In one of the last orders he would give, he asked Sergeant Thimmaiah to draw up a list of candidates. 
 On the evening of June 7, Captain Esposito and Lieutenant Allen played the board game Risk with Sergeant Thimmaiah and were catching up afterward in the captain's office. 
 Around 10 p.m., a thunderous blast shook the building. Three smaller explosions followed. Everyone assumed they were under an insurgent mortar attack. Then came a cry for help.
 Entering the captain's office, Captain Prober, a 19-year Army veteran, found Lieutenant Allen on the floor, conscious but gravely wounded. Captain Esposito was face down amid shattered furniture and glass, not breathing and ''just destroyed,'' Captain Prober said. 
 Combat triage quickly gave way to a murder investigation. Military investigators found fragments of the Claymore at the scene. In and around a manmade lake nearby, they discovered the metal handles from three American grenades and the Claymore's detonation cord and firing device.
 Moments after the explosions, Staff Sgt. David Wentzel, who had taken refuge in a small cement building nearby, saw Sergeant Martinez standing in the road near the captain's quarters, visibly shaking, as if shell-shocked, according to Sergeant Wentzel's testimony. 
 ''After I had time to think about it, it was almost like he knew it was over,'' he said. ''He wasn't running around trying to seek cover. He was standing there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bill Clinton and Phillip Esposito at his graduation from West Point. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1997) (pg. A1)
BITTER FEELINGS: Staff Sgt. Alberto Martinez, left, is accused of setting off an explosion that killed Capt. Phillip Esposito. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS 6 WRGB ALBANY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FAREWELL SALUTE: A memorial service in Tikrit, Iraq, for Captain Esposito and Lt. Lou Allen in June 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK NATIONAL GUARD)
 LIVES LEFT BEHIND: Tamara and Alberto Martinez, left, and Siobhan and Phillip Esposito with their daughter, Madeline. Sergeant Martinez, who faces a court-martial in the coming months, is the father of two teenagers. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MURDER (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY OFFENSES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NAVIES (73%); HISTORY (73%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); KUWAIT (79%); VIET NAM (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008



407 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Plan Seeks More Access For Disabled

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is about to propose far-reaching new rules that would give people with disabilities greater access to tens of thousands of courtrooms, swimming pools, golf courses, stadiums, theaters, hotels and retail stores. 
 The proposal would substantially update and rewrite federal standards for enforcement of the Americans With Disabilities Act, a landmark civil rights law passed with strong bipartisan support in 1990. The new rules would set more stringent requirements in many areas and address some issues for the first time, in an effort to meet the needs of an aging population and growing numbers of disabled war veterans.
 More than seven million businesses and all state and local government agencies would be affected. The proposal includes some exemptions for parts of existing buildings, but any new construction or renovations would have to comply.
 The new standards would affect everything from the location of light switches to the height of retail service counters, to the use of monkeys as ''service animals'' for people with disabilities, which would be forbidden. 
 The White House approved the proposal in May after a five-month review. It is scheduled to be published in the Federal Register on Tuesday, with 60 days for public comment. After considering those comments, the government would issue final rules with the force of law.
 Already, the proposal is stirring concern. The United States Chamber of Commerce says it would be onerous and costly, while advocates for disabled Americans say it does not go far enough.
 Since the disability law was signed by the first President Bush, advances in technology have made services more available to people with disabilities. But Justice Department officials said they were still receiving large numbers of complaints. In recent months, the federal government has settled lawsuits securing more seats for disabled fans at Madison Square Garden in New York and at the nation's largest college football stadium, at the University of Michigan.
 The Census Bureau says more than 51 million Americans have some kind of disability, with nearly two-thirds of them reporting severe impairments.
 The proposed rules, under development for more than four years, flesh out the meaning of the 1990 law, which set forth broad objectives. The 215,000-word proposal includes these new requirements:
 Courts would have to provide a lift or a ramp to ensure that people in wheelchairs could get into the witness stand, which is usually elevated from floor level.
 Auditoriums would have to provide a lift or a ramp so wheelchair users could ''participate fully and equally in graduation exercises and other events'' at which members of the audience have direct access to the stage.
 Any sports stadium with a seating capacity of 25,000 or more would have to provide safety and emergency information by posting written messages on scoreboards and video monitors. This would alert people who are deaf or hard of hearing.
 Theaters must provide specified numbers of seats for wheelchair users (at least five in a 300-seat facility). Viewing angles to the screen or stage must be ''equivalent to or better than the average viewing angles provided to all other spectators.'' 
 Light switches in a hotel room could not be more than 48 inches high. The current maximum is 54 inches.
 Hotels must allow people with disabilities to reserve accessible guest rooms, and they must honor these reservations to the same degree they guarantee other room reservations.
 At least 25 percent of the railings at fishing piers would have to be no more than 34 inches high, so that a person in a wheelchair could fish over the railing.
 At least half of the holes on miniature golf courses must be accessible to people using wheelchairs, and these holes must be connected by a continuous, unobstructed path.
 A new swimming pool with a perimeter of more than 300 feet would have to provide ''at least two accessible means of entry,'' like a gentle sloping ramp or a chair lift.
 New playgrounds would have to provide access to slides, swings and other play equipment for children who use wheelchairs.
 The Justice Department acknowledged that some of the changes would have significant costs. But over all, it said, the value of the public benefits, estimated at $54 billion, exceeds the expected costs of $23 billion. 
 In an economic analysis of the proposed rules, the Justice Department said the need for an accessible environment was greater than ever because the Iraq war was ''creating a new generation of young men and women with disabilities.'' 
 John L. Wodatch, chief of the disability rights section of the Justice Department, said: ''Disability is inherent in the human condition. The vast majority of individuals who are fortunate enough to reach an advanced age will benefit from the proposed requirements.''
 By 2010, the department estimates, 2 percent of the adult population will use wheelchairs, and 4 percent will use crutches, canes, walkers or other mobility devices. Likewise, it said, as the population ages, the number of people with hearing loss will increase.
 Under the 1990 law, businesses are supposed to remove barriers to people with disabilities if the changes are ''readily achievable,'' meaning they can be ''carried out without much difficulty or expense.''
 The Bush administration is proposing a safe harbor for small businesses. They could meet their obligations in a given year if, in the prior year, they had spent at least 1 percent of their gross revenues to remove barriers.
 Curtis L. Decker, executive director of the National Disability Rights Network, a coalition of legal advocates, said: ''Safe harbors make us very nervous. A small business could spend the requisite amount of money and still not be accessible.'' 
 Randel K. Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, said the proposed rules ''are so long and technically complex that even the best-intentioned small business could be found out of compliance by a clever lawyer looking to force a settlement.''
 The Justice Department cited the ''monetary cost cap'' as one of several steps it was taking to limit the rules' impact on small businesses. But Mr. Johnson said he feared that courts would view the ceiling as a floor and tell businesses they should spend 1 percent of their revenues on removing barriers. 
 The proposed rules affirm the right of people with disabilities to use guide dogs and other service animals in public places, but they tighten the definition to exclude certain species.
 When the existing rules were adopted in the early 1990s, the Justice Department said, few people anticipated the current trend toward ''the use of wild, exotic or unusual species'' as service animals.
 The proposed rules define a service animal as ''any dog or other common domestic animal individually trained to do work or perform tasks'' for a person with a physical or mental disability. 
 Under this definition, the administration says, monkeys could not qualify as service animals, nor would reptiles; amphibians; rabbits, ferrets and rodents; or most farm animals.
 Under the rules, a hotel, restaurant, theater, store or public park could ask a person with a disability to remove a service animal if the animal was out of control or not housebroken, or if it posed a direct threat to the health or safety of others. 
 By way of example, the rules say that a theater could exclude a dog that disrupted a live performance by repeated barking. 
 The rules confirm that people with disabilities can use traditional wheelchairs, power wheelchairs and electric scooters in any public areas open to pedestrians. 
 But shopping centers, amusement parks and other public places could impose reasonable restrictions on two-wheeled Segway vehicles, golf carts and ''other power-driven mobility devices'' used by those with disabilities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A proposal would rewrite standards for enforcement of the Americans With Disabilities Act, passed with strong bipartisan support in 1990. President George Bush signed the act that year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRY THUMMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); DISABLED ACCESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); WITNESSES (78%); DEAFNESS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (78%); RETAILERS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); LITIGATION (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CENSUS (71%); AGING TRENDS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); VETERANS (55%); AGING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



408 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: No Ordinary Candidates, No Typical Campaign

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
''Let the conversation begin'' is how Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton entered the 2008 presidential campaign. As that conversation now continues without her, it plainly will be different from what American voters have grown accustomed to. 
 Senator Barack Obama's status as the first African-American nominee of a major party is only the most conspicuous difference. There are others -- including style, scale and the silence of the leading journalistic voice in contemporary political culture. 
 The style difference flows from the remarkable profile Senator John McCain of Arizona cuts as Republican standard-bearer. Eyes atwinkle at age 71, he boasts skills rare in the Republican Party for waging guerrilla war with help from the news media. 
 The scale difference flows from his young Democratic foe's record-shattering ability to raise money. If Mr. Obama casts off the constraints of taxpayer financing in the general election, as strategists in both parties expect, he'll have an unprecedented range of options for communicating with voters by being free of the spending limits that accompany public financing.
 The silence is that of Tim Russert, who died last week at 58. As the leading political analyst in the American media, he played an arbiter's role that echoed beyond the viewership of ''Meet the Press'' on NBC. This general election will be the first since 1988 without Mr. Russert in the moderator's chair of that program.
 A Matter of Medium
 Mr. McCain's White House bid faces serious headwinds, from the Republican incumbent's unpopularity to public weariness with the Iraq war and anxiety about the economy. Lately, invoking a time-tested rallying cry for the Republican base, his aides have added liberal media bias to the list of obstacles. 
 But his communications style and relationship with the press have already seen him through a storm-tossed primary campaign. By his accessibility, humor and candor, Mr. McCain, a former war prisoner, has bonded not only with mainstream political journalists but also with satirists who interpret the campaign conversation for late-night TV audiences. 
 ''What makes 2008 different -- and why I think Mr. McCain can be called the first post-modernist presidential candidate -- is his acknowledgment of the symbiosis between himself and the press,'' the author Neal Gabler wrote recently in an Op-Ed column in The New York Times. ''Mr. McCain's sense of irony makes him their spiritual kin -- a cosmological liberal.'' 
 Mr. McCain's talent at close-quarters communication underlies his challenge to Mr. Obama to join him for 10 town-hall-style meetings, beyond the three moderated debates that have become general election rituals. Aides to Mr. Obama's campaign say he won't duck the challenge completely, which alone suggests that voters may hear a fresh form of dialogue. 
 Financial Edge
 For different reasons, so does the fund-raising talent that has accompanied Mr. Obama's ability to draw stadium-size crowds. In his primary campaign, he raised three times the $84 million that the public financing system offers for major party nominees in the fall. 
 Mr. Obama's aides say he will seek to connect with voters and debunk the ''just a speechmaker'' rap against him, with intimate appearances in voters' homes and workplaces. But the money he could wield would also allow him to supplement that with voter contact of extraordinary range and depth. 
 Because the 2000 and 2004 campaigns were fought on a narrow battlefield of around 15 swing states, voters elsewhere rarely saw TV commercials in the general election campaign; candidates mostly limited their broadcasting advertising to ''spot'' buys in selected markets. But because Mr. Obama, of Illinois, plans to expand the battlefield to more states, he may pass what media buyers call the ''tipping point'' at which nationwide advertising becomes cost-effective. 
 ''He doesn't have to choose,'' said Will Feltus, a media strategist for the 2004 campaign of President Bush, with more than a touch of envy.
 Nor would he have to choose among ''micro-targeting'' methods like direct mail, phone banks and the Internet. Mr. Feltus predicted that Mr. Obama might even invest in an old-school technique that represents the ultimate political luxury good: printed advertising in newspapers. 
 A Substantial Loss
 Tim Russert's life saw the influence of print journalists in politics largely displaced by those on television. Mr. Russert became the most influential journalist in that world: grilling candidates, moderating debates, interpreting election results while commanding respect from both parties.
 ''He did not ask gotcha questions aimed at scoring cheap points for himself,'' noted Linda Douglass, a onetime ABC competitor who recently joined Mr. Obama's campaign. Mr. McCain's campaign never included Mr. Russert in its catalog of alleged media sins.
 ''An election without Russert,'' concluded Mark McKinnon, a past media adviser to Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain, ''will be like Oz without the Wizard.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WRITERS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERAL MEDIA (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); MEDIA BIAS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); TIM RUSSERT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



409 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls for More Responsibility From Black Fathers

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN; Michael Falcone contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Addressing a packed congregation at one of the city's largest black churches, Senator Barack Obama on Sunday invoked his own absent father to deliver a sharp message to black men, saying ''we need fathers to recognize that responsibility doesn't just end at conception.'' 
 In an address that was striking for its bluntness and where he chose to give it, Mr. Obama directly addressed one of the most delicate topics confronting black leaders: how much responsibility absent fathers bear for some of the intractable problems afflicting black Americans. Mr. Obama noted that ''more than half of all black children live in single-parent households,'' a number that he said had doubled since his own childhood.
 ''Too many fathers are M.I.A., too many fathers are AWOL, missing from too many lives and too many homes,'' Mr. Obama said to a chorus of approving murmurs from the audience. ''They have abandoned their responsibilities, acting like boys instead of men. And the foundations of our families are weaker because of it.'' 
 Accompanied by his wife, Michelle, and his daughters, Malia and Sasha, who sat in the front pew, Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, laid out his case in stark terms that would be difficult for a white candidate to make, telling the mostly black audience not to ''just sit in the house watching 'SportsCenter,' '' and to stop praising themselves for mediocre accomplishments.
 ''Don't get carried away with that eighth-grade graduation,'' he said, bringing many members of the congregation to their feet, applauding. ''You're supposed to graduate from eighth grade.'' 
 His themes have also been sounded by the comedian Bill Cosby, who has stirred debate among black Americans by bluntly speaking about an epidemic of fatherlessness in African-American families while suggesting that some blacks use racism as a crutch to explain the lack of economic progress.
 Mr. Obama did not take his Father's Day message to Trinity United Church of Christ, where he resigned as a member in May after a series of disputes over controversial remarks by the church's former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. Instead, he chose the 20,000-member Apostolic Church of God, a vast brick structure on the South Side near Lake Michigan. The church's pastor, Byron Brazier, is an Obama supporter.
 The address was not Mr. Obama's first foray into the issue. On the campaign trail, Mr. Obama has frequently returned to the topic of parenting and personal responsibility, particularly for low-income black families. Speaking in Texas in February, Mr. Obama told the mostly black audience to take responsibility for the education and nutrition of their children, and lectured them for feeding their children ''cold Popeyes'' for breakfast. 
 ''I know how hard it is to get kids to eat properly,'' Mr. Obama said at the time. 
 The remarks Sunday were Mr. Obama's first since he claimed the nomination that have addressed the problems confronting blacks in a comprehensive and straightforward way. While Mr. Obama's remarks were directed at a black, churchgoing audience, his campaign hopes they resonate among white social conservatives in a race where these voters may be up for grabs.
 On Friday, Mr. Obama said he would co-sponsor a bill, with Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, that his campaign said would address the ''national epidemic of absentee fathers.'' If passed, the legislation would increase enforcement of child support payments and strengthen services for domestic violence prevention. 
 ''We need families to raise our children,'' he said at the service on Sunday. ''We need fathers to recognize that responsibility doesn't just end at conception. That doesn't just make you a father. What makes you a man is not the ability to have a child. Any fool can have a child. That doesn't make you a father. It's the courage to raise a child that makes you a father.''
 Mr. Obama spoke of the burden that single parenthood placed on his mother, who raised him with the help of his maternal grandparents. 
 ''I know the toll it took on me, not having a father in the house,'' he continued. ''The hole in your heart when you don't have a male figure in the home who can guide you and lead you. So I resolved many years ago that it was my obligation to break the cycle -- that if I could be anything in life, I would be a good father to my children.'' 
 But Mr. Obama also acknowledged his own flaws as a father, citing the breakneck schedule of the campaign and the rare days he spends with his children.
 ''I say this knowing that I have been an imperfect father,'' he said, ''knowing that I have made mistakes and I'll continue to make more, wishing that I could be home for my girls and my wife more than I am right now.'' 
 Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina and an Obama supporter, said he welcomed not only the message the speech sent to black Americans, but also how it laid bare Mr. Obama's own struggles growing up and, now, as the father of two children.
 ''I have been saying for some time now that he needs to talk more about his life experiences and what it means to be raised by a single mother,'' Mr. Clyburn said. ''He opened up.''
 The Rev. Al Sharpton called the remarks on absent black fathers ''courageous and important,'' but cautioned that Mr. Obama's words would not be embraced by all segments of the black community.
 ''There are a lot of those who will say that he should not be airing dirty laundry, those that will say he's beating up on the victims,'' Mr. Sharpton said in a telephone interview. ''This will not be something that will be unanimously applauded, but I think that not discussing it is not going to make it go away.''
 The Obama campaign added the speech to Mr. Obama's schedule on Saturday, when he returned to Chicago after a campaign swing through Pennsylvania and Ohio. Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, took the day off from campaigning, but met privately in Washington with Hoshyar Zebari, the Iraqi foreign minister. 
 The church did not publicize Mr. Obama's visit in advance, and carried no mention of it on the its Web site. 
 But word had clearly gotten out, and by 11 a.m., as a musician warmed up on the timpani, thousands of people had filed through metal detectors at the church entrance and filled the pews, saving seats for latecomers with pocketbooks and hymnals. Even those who arrived an hour before the service milled around the church searching for empty seats. 
 Mr. Obama sprinkled his roughly 30-minute address with moments of levity. He said that when he asked his wife why Mother's Day produced so much more ''hoopla'' than Father's Day, she reminded him of his special status.
 ''She said, 'Let me tell you, every day is Father's Day,' '' he said. '' 'Every day you're getting away with something. You're running for president.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thousands of congregants filled the Apostolic Church of God in Chicago, where Senator Barack Obama spoke on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MEN (89%); PARENTING (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RACE & RACISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) LAKE MICHIGAN (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



410 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2573 words

HEADLINE: After Feud and 2 Iraq Deaths, Soldiers and Families Are Torn

BYLINE: By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

 BODY:
Capt. Phillip Esposito and Staff Sgt. Alberto Martinez went to war together, two very different soldiers from the same New York National Guard unit. After five months in Iraq, a bombing sent both men back home, one in a coffin, the other in handcuffs, a suspect in his murder. 
 Captain Esposito, as straightforward as his M4 carbine, was an Eagle Scout and West Point graduate who built a civilian career as a computer specialist for a Wall Street investment bank. His service as a National Guard company commander, family members said, was a matter of honor and old-fashioned patriotism.
Sergeant Martinez came from a tougher background, documents and interviews show, and found camaraderie and discipline in military service. Transplanted from Puerto Rico as a teenager, he drifted through a series of part-time jobs after high school, taking community college classes in electronics. But he had a habit of playing by his own rules, some of his managers said, and lacked maturity. Rejected by the Army Reserve and Navy Reserve, he was fired by U.P.S. in 1999.
 The National Guard eventually admitted him on a waiver after three failed attempts to pass the military's standardized aptitude test. Working at the Watervliet Arsenal, near Albany, Sergeant Martinez strained to handle duties that called for more than basic clerical or mechanical work. 
 In January 2005, with the Iraq insurgency in violent bloom, the dutiful company commander and the struggling sergeant deployed with the 42nd Infantry Division to Kuwait and then to northern Iraq. At a forward operating base in Tikrit, under battlefield conditions in a hostile Sunni Arab region, a mutual distrust between Sergeant Martinez and Captain Esposito devolved into acrimony and, according to Army prosecutors, premeditated murder. 
 ''I want him to die,'' one soldier later testified he heard Sergeant Martinez say soon after their arrival in Iraq.
 On June 7 of that year, Sergeant Martinez detonated a Claymore mine he had placed in the window of Captain Esposito's quarters, Army prosecutors said, killing him and severely wounding a first lieutenant, Lou Allen, who died later in surgery. They said three hand grenades were also used in the attack.
 In the coming months, Sergeant Martinez is expected to face court-martial in the deaths. He has consistently maintained his innocence. If convicted, he would be eligible for the death penalty. 
 Attacks on soldiers by another soldier usually of a lower rank, known in military slang as ''fragging'' because a fragmentation grenade was often the weapon of choice, were an alarming problem during the Vietnam War but have been extremely rare in Iraq. The 2005 attack is only the second such case the Army has prosecuted since the beginning of the Iraq war. By comparison, in Vietnam in 1969 and 1970, the Army logged more than 300 attacks that killed 75 commissioned and noncommissioned officers, said Paul J. Springer, a history professor at West Point. 
 Experts attributed the dropoff to the professionalism and higher morale that came with the all-volunteer military instituted in 1973. ''With fragging, you're likely to find someone who never really fit into the military system, who probably felt like an outsider,'' said Dr. David Walker, a psychiatrist who served in the Air Force. 
 Prosecutors have argued that in this case, the evidence points squarely at Sergeant Martinez. 
 They said that he was the only soldier with access to grenades and Claymore mines who had repeatedly threatened the captain; that after the attack, investigators discovered a grenade crate in the sergeant's supply room bearing the same serial number as the one stamped on grenade parts found near the scene; that shortly before the attack, 10 grenades from Sergeant Martinez's supply area disappeared; and that immediately after the attack, he was seen wearing a Kevlar vest and standing in the road a few yards from where the mine's firing apparatus was found. 
 Army defense lawyers have argued that the evidence is circumstantial and does not come close to showing that their client, who remains in military custody in North Carolina, committed any crime. Many soldiers had access to grenades, they said, and serial numbers on grenade crates did not always match those on the grenades inside. 
 Moreover, they argued, Sergeant Martinez's statements about the captain ''were of a venting nature,'' and neither of the officers who testified that they heard them thought they were serious enough to report. 
 ''Their argument is far more persuasive than any of the evidence that was presented,'' one of the sergeant's military lawyers, Maj. E. John Gregory, said of prosecutors' case in a Nov. 1, 2005, hearing. ''They rely on inference and circumstance.'' 
 The deaths of Captain Esposito, 30, and Lieutenant Allen, 34, have led to a painful reckoning among their families. 
 Their widows, now raising five children between them, question why Sergeant Martinez, now 40, an underachiever rejected by other military branches, was accepted, promoted and sent to war by the National Guard. Within the 42nd Division, a proud unit with a distinguished history, questions linger over whether an embittered soldier's threats to kill his commander should have been taken seriously. 
 ''I'm convinced this was 100 percent preventable,'' said Captain Esposito's wife, Siobhan Esposito. ''This guy was a problem, and they knew he was a problem.''
 Barbara Allen, Lieutenant Allen's wife, said, ''We're never going to be free of this until the death penalty is carried out.''
 Sergeant Martinez's lawyers declined to comment for this article. A spokesman for the National Guard said he could not discuss an active case.
 Friction From the Start
 In a National Guard reliant on soldiers from divergent backgrounds, Captain Esposito and Sergeant Martinez never got along. The sergeant saw the captain as an arrogant taskmaster. To the captain, according to other soldiers in the unit, Sergeant Martinez was a knucklehead who lacked wartime discipline. Sergeant Martinez fumed none too quietly at what he saw as his young commander's hubris, telling another sergeant months before the explosion: ''I can't wait for him to get his.''
 ''When I meet the commander for the first time, he express himself to be better than me and other people,'' the sergeant wrote hours after the fatal explosion, in a sworn statement laced with grammatical and spelling errors. ''He never have respect for the lower enlisted personel.''
 There are no clear-cut rules about what, if anything, soldiers should do when another soldier makes threats against a superior. But though military culture tolerates grumbling, Sergeant Martinez's expressions of anger and violence toward his captain should have caused other officers to act, said Dr. Springer, the history professor. 
 ''That's the sort of thing that Martinez should have been brought up on charges for,'' he said. ''There's a huge difference between saying 'I hate that guy' and 'I want to kill that guy,' '' Dr. Springer added. ''You can't let that kind of thing go, because if you do, you're encouraging a breakdown in discipline.'' 
 By the time Phillip Esposito graduated with honors from Albertus Magnus High School, in Rockland County, in 1992, Alberto Martinez was a married father of two working as a part-time U.P.S. deliveryman around Albany. 
 After graduating in the top 10 percent of his class at West Point, Cadet Esposito became a first lieutenant and platoon leader in the Army's 66th Armor, Fourth Infantry Division, at Fort Hood, Tex., where he earned numerous commendations, including one in 1999 for ''dedication and professionalism.'' 
 ''He was one of the most meticulous people I ever met in my life,'' Staff Sgt. Ashvin Thimmaiah said of Captain Esposito during a 2005 military hearing on the evidence in the murder case. Rules and standards were always uppermost in the captain's mind. ''He followed them to the letter,'' Sergeant Thimmaiah said. ''He enforced it to the letter as well.''
 At his wife's urging, Captain Esposito left active duty in 2000, joined the National Guard and began a civilian career as a technology manager for Salomon Smith Barney in Lower Manhattan. 
 An Exception to Join
 Sergeant Martinez had been serving part-time as a Guardsman in 1999 when U.P.S. fired him, he said, for repeatedly failing to properly deliver packages. He collected state unemployment benefits for five months until the National Guard gave him a job verifying vehicle and weapons inventories at armories around the state. 
 Sergeant Martinez had needed special permission just to enter the military, after scoring in the 15th, 17th and 21st percentile in his attempts to pass its standardized aptitude battery between 1987 and 1990, according to records obtained by The New York Times. To pass, applicants must score above the 30th percentile. On Dec. 20, 1990, a Guard colonel granted him what is known as a Mental Category IV waiver, for recruits with low test scores who the service believes can be trained to be good soldiers. 
 Waivers have long been a touchy subject for a military that markets itself as being interested in only the most capable recruits. Since 2001, so-called mental and moral waivers, for enlistees with low test scores or scrapes with the law, have received increasing public and official scrutiny. 
 In the 1980s, roughly 10 percent of Army recruits required Category IV waivers. After the 1991 gulf war, the Pentagon restricted those recruits to less than 4 percent of new enlistees across all branches, David S. C. Chu, the Defense Department's undersecretary for personnel and readiness, said in a conference call with reporters last October. The New York National Guard grants roughly the same number of waivers as the Army over all. 
 In the late 1990s through 2002, Sergeant Martinez seemed to do well in the National Guard and was rated ''among the best'' soldiers by his superiors, who commended him for ''exceptional military bearing'' in 2000 and ''absolute loyalty to the unit'' in 2002, documents showed. At the same time, his U.P.S. managers repeatedly urged him to show improvement.
 Outside work, he also struggled. On the morning of Dec. 18, 2002, fire swept through his home in Cohoes, which he bought eight years earlier. Fire officials decided the cause was electrical. But his insurer, Liberty Mutual, refused to pay, believing Sergeant Martinez had set the fire to collect on his policy. 
 By January 2003, fed up with months of late payments, the mortgage holder, Wells Fargo, moved to foreclose on the home.
 In a brief interview, Sergeant Martinez's wife, Tamara Martinez, described him as a good husband and attentive father of two teenagers. ''He's got a family that loves him,'' she said. ''Albert is a terrific guy,'' she added, before politely ending the conversation. 
 By 2004, the war had begun its turn for the worse, and Guard units across the country were mobilized for active duty. That May, Captain Esposito was called up to Latham, N.Y., near Albany, and became the leader of the 42nd Division's Headquarters and Headquarters Company, a division-level supply and logistics company. 
 He was put in charge of a Guard company that was, by his standards, frustratingly informal and unfocused as it prepared to deploy to Iraq, soldiers said later in military court testimony. 
 Not everyone in the unit appreciated the captain's hut-to style. 
 As the unit counted the days to deployment, Captain Esposito scheduled more and more meetings; Sergeant Martinez, the unit's supply sergeant, seemed unable or unwilling to keep up with the myriad demands on him and grew increasingly bitter, soldiers said. 
 The unit relocated to Fort Drum, N.Y., late in 2004, after which the sergeant began threatening Captain Esposito to other soldiers, according to testimony. ''I could kill him; I want him to die,'' a major in the division testified hearing Sergeant Martinez say. 
 Increasing Acrimony
 By the time the company was ready to deploy to Kuwait, the relationship between the captain and the sergeant had reached a low point. 
 ''It wasn't pretty,'' Sgt. First Class Peggy Schumacher said of one heated argument between the two men. ''I was appalled.'' 
 Once in Tikrit, Sergeant Martinez, as supply sergeant, was doing the work normally handled by three or four people; the entire unit felt the pressure of operating in the heart of a Sunni insurgency. When the unit lost track of $30,000 worth of equipment, including night-vision goggles and radio encryption devices, the division command docked both Captain Esposito and Sergeant Martinez a month's pay. Each man blamed the other for the blunder, said Luis J. Badillo, a lieutenant and the company's executive officer at the time.
 ''My thought process at that time was to try to keep them as far apart and away from each other as possible,'' said Mr. Badillo, now a New York State Police trooper. 
 By late May, Captain Esposito began openly belittling Sergeant Martinez, soldiers said, and forbade him from even entering the supply room without an escort from a superior officer. Sometime that month, Sergeant Martinez, worried about losing his job, made threats against Captain Esposito in a conversation with another captain in the unit. 
 ''He said that he hated Esposito,'' that captain, Carl Prober, testified in 2005. Sergeant Martinez, in a profanity-laced tirade, threatened to ''frag'' Captain Esposito, Captain Prober said.
 In military court hearings examining the murder case, Captain Prober was not asked what, if any, action he took after hearing the threat. 
 Just days before the explosions, Lieutenant Allen, a friend of Captain Esposito's from Milford, Pa., and a high school science teacher, joined the unit to organize a supply function that under Sergeant Martinez had become, according to Mr. Badillo, a ''nightmare.'' 
 On June 5 or 6, Captain Esposito began a search to replace Sergeant Martinez as supply sergeant. In one of the last orders he would give, he asked Sergeant Thimmaiah to draw up a list of candidates. 
 On the evening of June 7, Captain Esposito and Lieutenant Allen played the board game Risk with Sergeant Thimmaiah and were catching up afterward in the captain's office. 
 Around 10 p.m., a thunderous blast shook the building. Three smaller explosions followed. Everyone assumed they were under an insurgent mortar attack. Then came a cry for help.
 Entering the captain's office, Captain Prober, a 19-year Army veteran, found Lieutenant Allen on the floor, conscious but gravely wounded. Captain Esposito was face down amid shattered furniture and glass, not breathing and ''just destroyed,'' Captain Prober said. 
 Combat triage quickly gave way to a murder investigation. Military investigators found fragments of the Claymore at the scene. In and around a manmade lake nearby, they discovered the metal handles from three American grenades and the Claymore's detonation cord and firing device.
 Moments after the explosions, Staff Sgt. David Wentzel, who had taken refuge in a small cement building nearby, saw Sergeant Martinez standing in the road near the captain's quarters, visibly shaking, as if shell-shocked, according to Sergeant Wentzel's testimony. 
 ''After I had time to think about it, it was almost like he knew it was over,'' he said. ''He wasn't running around trying to seek cover. He was standing there.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bill Clinton and Phillip Esposito at his graduation from West Point. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1997) (pg. A1)
BITTER FEELINGS: Staff Sgt. Alberto Martinez, left, is accused of setting off an explosion that killed Capt. Phillip Esposito. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS 6 WRGB ALBANY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FAREWELL SALUTE: A memorial service in Tikrit, Iraq, for Captain Esposito and Lt. Lou Allen in June 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK NATIONAL GUARD)
LIVES LEFT BEHIND: Tamara and Alberto Martinez, left, and Siobhan and Phillip Esposito with their daughter, Madeline. Sergeant Martinez, who faces a court-martial in the coming months, is the father of two teenagers.
 CAUGHT IN THE MIDDLE: Lieutenant Allen died in surgery after he was wounded in the blast that killed Captain Esposito. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK NATIONAL GUARD) (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY OFFENSES (89%); MURDER (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); HISTORY (73%); NAVIES (73%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); VIET NAM (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010



411 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Tiny, Clingy and Destructive, Mussel Makes Its Way West

BYLINE: By JOHN COLLINS RUDOLF

DATELINE: LAKE MEAD, Nev. 

 BODY:
Kneeling at the edge of the dock, Wen Baldwin began hauling on a length of nylon rope that disappeared into the depths of Lake Mead. One after another, an odd assemblage of objects -- a water bottle, a chunk of concrete, a pair of flip-flops, a steel anchor -- emerged from the emerald-green waters. 
 A living blanket of tiny, striped mussels covered each one. 
 ''The conditions here are ideal for these things, absolutely ideal,'' said Mr. Baldwin, 70, a retired design engineer and a National Park Service volunteer. 
 The mussel-coated debris is unmistakable evidence of an event occurring silently and largely out of sight -- the colonization of the Colorado River by the quagga mussel, a fingernail-size Eurasian bivalve with an astonishing sex drive and a nasty reputation for causing economic and ecological havoc.
 Like the closely related zebra mussel, the quagga can cling tenaciously to hard surfaces, like the equipment of the many hydroelectric and water-supply plants along the lower Colorado.
 ''They're going to be all over the pipes, all over the intakes,'' said Gary L. Fahnenstiel, senior ecologist with the Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. ''It's going to be devastating.''
 Dr. Fahnenstiel ought to know. The quagga has carpeted much of the Great Lakes, largely displacing the better-known zebra. Its invasion of the Colorado, presumably after crossing the Rockies on recreational boats hitched to trailers, foretells major disruptions not just for utilities, but also for the entire ecology of the lower river. 
 By stripping nutrients and microorganisms from the water, the mussel could do grave damage to a wide variety of species, including small invertebrates, fish and birds. ''This is one bad hombre,'' Dr. Fahnenstiel said. ''It's almost your worst-case scenario for affecting the entire food chain.''
 The quagga's introduction in the Colorado can hardly be a surprise. For almost 10 years, a small chorus has warned of ruinous consequences if the mussels crossed into the West. 
 In 1998, a group called the 100th Meridian Initiative brought together biologists, wildlife officials, water managers, environmentalists and others with the goal of preventing invasive species from crossing the 100th meridian, a historical boundary separating East and West. For seven years, Mr. Baldwin has been the group's sentinel at Lake Mead. 
 In 2001, Mr. Baldwin, then president of the Lake Mead Boat Owners Association, heard a presentation by a biologist from the initiative on the zebra mussel. The zebra invaded the Great Lakes from Ukraine in the 1980s and spread to major rivers and more than 800 lakes. 
 Mr. Baldwin lobbied officials at the Lake Mead National Recreation Area for more inspections of recreational boats, which carry mussels in bilge pumps and live bait wells. He distributed brochures and spoke widely on the threat. ''I started researching it and put on some programs, trying to get people to pay attention. Some did. Most didn't.'' 
 He even built monitoring stations on docks around the lake, but found nothing. In January 2007, however, Mr. Baldwin received a call from a maintenance worker who had spotted a suspicious-looking mussel clinging to a steel cable below a Lake Mead dock. It was a quagga. Investigation quickly found colonies throughout the lake, at depths much greater than usual for zebras. ''We were monitoring for zebras, and the quaggas snuck right in beneath us,'' he said.
 At Lake Mead, a deep, narrow reservoir hundreds of miles long created by the Hoover Dam, quaggas appear well on the way to taking over. 
 ''Within a year of discovery, it was apparent that they were lakewide, and in areas they were really numerous,'' said Kent Turner, chief of resource management for the park service at the recreation area. Sampling the lake bottom has found mussel concentrations in the thousands per square meter, he said.
 Like the zebra, the quagga breeds externally, forming clouds of veligers, microscopic, free-swimming larvae that can float up to five weeks before settling on any surface that strikes their fancy.
 By riding the current, quagga veligers have floated hundreds of miles downstream. Adult mussels have been found as far south as the Imperial Dam, near the Mexican border.
 They have not stopped there. At the Lake Havasu reservoir, on the California-Arizona border, giant pumping stations pull millions of gallons of water a day for cities and farms. Drawn into the Colorado River Aqueduct and the Central Arizona Project canal, veligers have journeyed as far east as Phoenix and Tucson and as far west as San Diego.
 ''Wherever the river takes them, they have gone,'' said Alexia Retallack, a spokeswoman for the California Fish and Game Department. 
 The infiltration of the Colorado poses a major challenge for a water system already strained by record drought. Las Vegas is particularly reliant on the river, drawing 90 percent of its drinking water from Lake Mead. 
 The Metropolitan Water District, which provides water to 26 cities in Southern California, regularly deploys scuba divers to clear mussels from its intake pumps on Lake Havasu. To kill the mussel larvae, 9,000 gallons of chlorine, equal to two trailer tanks, are added to the Colorado River Aqueduct daily. ''What we want to do is contain them,'' said Ric de Leon, a microbiologist who directs quagga control for the district. ''So far, we're doing fairly well.''
 California officials have begun aggressive boat inspections, even enlisting canine units trained to find mussels.
 ''We have the first quagga-sniffing dogs on the planet,'' Ms. Retallack said. 
 Lined with dams, reservoirs, canals and pipelines, the Colorado more closely resembles a giant plumbing project than a wild river, giving the mussels ample opportunity for mayhem. David Pimentel, a professor of ecology at Cornell and an expert on the economic effects of invasive species, said the maintenance and control costs might run ''into the billions, as it has been in the East.'' 
 More alarming to some experts are the potential ecological effects. Dr. Fahnenstiel called the mussels' explosive growth the most significant ecological disruption in modern Great Lakes history. ''It's a huge perturbation,'' he said. ''I don't think that can be understated.'' 
 In Lake Michigan, fish populations have plummeted as quaggas strip the water of nutrients. ''The fish are taking a hit because there's no food for them,'' said Tom Nalepa, a research biologist with the Great Lakes laboratory. ''All the food is being sucked out by the mussels. What we're seeing is the replacement of the fish by the mussels.'' 
 By filtering the water, quaggas can increase clarity, letting in sunlight that leads to algae blooms and explosive weed growth. That can, in turn, result in oxygen-starved ''dead zones,'' observed recently in Lake Erie. By accumulating toxins filtered from the water, the mussels have also contributed to botulism. 
 ''In the Great Lakes, we've seen avian botulism go through the roof,'' Dr. Fahnenstiel said. ''We've had huge die-offs of loons, which are one of the most beloved species here.''
 In the Colorado River, two native fish species, the bonytail chub and razorback sucker, are considered particularly vulnerable to mussel competition, and avian botulism may threaten bald eagles around Lake Mead.
 Biologists also warn that the vector behind the quaggas' spread, to the Great Lakes by oceanic freighter and to the West on recreational boats,remains open to exploitation by other potentially destructive species. An estimated 180 alien species have reproducing populations in the Great Lakes Basin, with new ones added almost yearly. Most recently, viral hemorrhagic septicemia, a European virus that can cause large fish kills, has spread to three Great Lakes: Huron, Michigan and Ontario. 
 ''Everybody in North America needs to be concerned about what species come into the Great Lakes,'' Dr. Fahnenstiel said. ''There's no system that's geographically isolated anymore. We're all linked.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NASTY REPUTATION: Quagga mussels from Lake Mead near Boulder City, Nev., an area where Wen Baldwin, below right, conducted field research. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Colorado River and Lake Mead along the California, Arizona, and Nevada borders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); LAKES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); MAMMALS (88%); BIOLOGY (87%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (86%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); RIVERS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); WILDLIFE (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (72%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (63%); VOLUNTEERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT LAKES (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



412 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words

 BODY:
Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 There is new evidence that sleep apnea is a serious health threat.
 Brain-scan studies from U.C.L.A. show for the first time that the disorder, which affects sleep and breathing, is associated with tissue loss in brain regions that store memory. 
 The data show the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of sleep apnea, which affects an estimated 20 million Americans. Unfortunately, the most effective treatment is continuous positive airway pressure, or CPAP, which is delivered by a machine that many patients find unwieldy and uncomfortable. 
 From MarkoMD: After 20 years of snoring, a sleep study (predictably) demonstrated sleep apnea. I immediately obtained a CPAP machine. I don't know how I ever managed without it! 
 Rebecca: The CPAP fills me with such dread I would rather deal with possible memory loss than sleep with the thing.
 Janet: Losing a lot of weight helped ... but I know I have memory problems from having had the problem for several years.
 Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
 Chicago's two-year ban on foie gras has ended, but there does seem to be a growing movement away from the age-old practice of transforming ducks and geese into bloated livers with wings. Fifteen countries ban foie gras production, and California is heading toward a ban. 
 There's a bigger question here, though. As humans grow ever more plentiful and prosperous, how will we choose to relate to the other inhabitants of this very finite planet?
 Sure, foie gras production is an ancient practice. But suppose there are alternatives that don't entail penning birds in dark sheds and sticking a pipe down their throats three times a day. 
 I have a proposal: Keep the liver; free the ducks. This will take awhile, of course. After all, it involves the frontiers of food technology -- making meat in a lab instead of a feed lot. But liver is one of the most proliferative tissues (that's one reason it's relatively easy to transplant). So presumably it's a lot easier to culture in a vat than, say, brisket. 
 TierneyLab
 From John Tierney's blog, nytimes.com/tierneylab. 
 Malthusian prophets have always claimed to see the big picture, but they ignore thousands of years when prices of natural resources fell and human well-being improved. The economist Robin Hanson points out that centuries of fairly steady growth were punctuated by two ''economic singularities'' -- the invention of agriculture and the Industrial Revolution -- that caused rapid accelerations in growth.
 Dr. Hanson suggests we're due for another economic singularity sometime before 2075. He writes: 
 ''If a new transition were to show the same pattern as the past two, then growth would quickly speed up by between 60- and 250-fold. The world economy, which now doubles in 15 years or so, would soon double in somewhere from a week to a month. If the new transition were as gradual ... as the Industrial Revolution was, then within three years of a noticeable departure from typical fluctuations, it would begin to double annually, and within two more years, it might grow a millionfold.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLEEP DISORDERS (92%); BRAIN (78%); SLEEP (78%); BIRDS (70%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



413 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) YOUNG AND RESTLESS IN CHINA ''Frontline'' follows nine young Chinese adults across four years as they balance tradition and Westernization while grappling with a freewheeling economy. Those profiled include Wang Xiaolei, a rapper, above; Lu Dong, a 32-year-old businessman starting his own Internet-based tailoring company; Miranda Hong, a marketing executive; Ben Wu, an Internet cafe entrepreneur; and Zhang Yao, a medical resident. 
 9 A.M. (ABC) LIVE WITH REGIS AND KELLY Kelly Preston talks about her latest film, ''The Tenth Circle,'' based on the novel by Jodi Picoult; Idina Menzel performs. 
 8 P.M. (CBS) AFI'S 10 TOP 10 Whichever way you do the math, it still adds up. This latest chapter, and 11th annual special, in the ''AFI's 100 Years ...'' series counts down the top 10 films in 10 classic American genres, as ranked by the American Film Institute, and then crowns the winner in each category. The films will be revealed over three hours by Jessica Alba (romantic comedy), Sean Astin (fantasy), Gabriel Byrne (mystery), Kirk Douglas (epic), Clint Eastwood (western), Cuba Gooding Jr. (sports), Jennifer Love Hewitt (animation), Quentin Tarantino (gangster), Sigourney Weaver (science fiction) and James Woods (courtroom drama). 
 9 P.M. (NBC) AMERICA'S GOT TALENT A third round of would-be stars -- singers, dancers, contortionists, comedians, you name it -- unveil their abilities in the hope of getting viewers to vote them into the $1 million grand prize. David Hasselhoff, Piers Morgan and Sharon Osbourne return as the show's judges; Jerry Springer is host.
 9 P.M. (DIY) DESPERATE LANDSCAPES Jason Cameron, a licensed contractor, and his team transform the yard of Leslie and Chris Srodek-Johnson of Sagamore Hills, Ohio, a soon-to-be-green space that won the dubious distinction of having been voted ''America's Most Desperate Landscape'' by viewers.
 9 P.M. (Fox) HELL'S KITCHEN Giving new meaning to the term birthing pains, the final four contestants must prepare lunch for 80 ravenous and queasy expectant women. The winning chef gets a $1,000 shopping spree; the others have to clean up the mess. And then there's the punishment doled out to the cook who burns Gordon Ramsay's hand. 
 9 P.M. (Sundance) BIG IDEAS FOR A SMALL PLANET A look at gadgets that help the planet, including circuit boards made from chicken feathers and shopping malls powered by the shoppers themselves. At 9:35, in the French documentary ''Strait Through the Ice'' (2006), above, Yves Billy examines the environmental and economic impact of the melting of Arctic polar ice, which has opened up a northwest passage that will provide a maritime route between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) FLIPPING OUT Jeff Lewis returns for a second season of obsessive-compulsive seven-figure house-flipping, assisted by Jenni, who moonlights as a voice-over artist; Chris, Jenni's husband and the new house manager; a second Chris, to assist the first; Zoila, Jeff's housekeeper; and Ryan, Jeff's former boyfriend and current business partner. 
 10 P.M. (Fuse) THE ROCK & ROLL ACID TEST More myth-testing as a witting participant trips out in a hallucinogenic simulator to challenge the notion that musicians are at their best when under the influence. Testing other theories requires snorting live ants and performing in a zero-gravity plane.
 10 P.M. (Oxygen) TORI & DEAN: HOME SWEET HOLLYWOOD This third foray into the lives of Tori Spelling and her husband, Dean McDermott, picks up with the couple back in Los Angeles and awaiting the birth of their second child after having shuttered their country inn, Chateau La Rue. High points in this edition include buying their first house; celebrating the first birthday of their son, Liam; publishing Ms. Spelling's first book; and welcoming their first daughter.
 11 P.M. (Travel) LAWRENCE OF AMERICA Lawrence Beldon-Smythe continues his quest to uncover things unique to this country by sampling Greek and Roman traditions at the University of Georgia, where he visits a sorority house, attends a college football game and learns to shake his pompom and various body parts as a cheerleader. At 11:30, he attempts to become the first English reporter launched into space when he visits NASA in Florida. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); FILM (75%); LITERATURE GENRES (74%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (74%); RAP MUSIC (72%); ANIMATION (70%); COMEDY FILMS (70%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (70%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (69%); DANCERS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); DANCE (69%); RETAILERS (60%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE (55%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (55%); CLINT EASTWOOD (54%); JESSICA ALBA (54%); JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



414 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Investment Boom Gives a Lift to the Russian Economy

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Russia's economy expanded an annual 8.5 percent in the first quarter, higher than economists expected, as consumer demand fueled an investment boom. 
 The expansion followed 9.5 percent growth in the previous three months, the Federal Statistics Service said on Monday. 
 Growth in Brazil, Russia, India and China is outpacing the economies of the United States, Japan and the euro region, driven by wage growth, investment and consumer spending. The rapid expansion is also fueling inflation, which accelerated to 15.1 percent in May, and may be a signal that the economy is overheating, analysts said.
 ''I don't expect any serious slowing in growth this year,'' Alexander Morozov, chief economist at HSBC Bank in Moscow, said. ''The risks are from rising inflation. The government doesn't have a consensus that the economy is overheating -- this implies that their first priority is sustaining fast growth, while the problem of inflation will be secondary.''
 Russian industrial output grew an annual rate of 9.2 percent in April, the most in nine months, as output of trucks, cars and construction materials surged.
 Real wage growth has advanced more than 12 percent every month this year, increasing demand for housing and consumer goods. The government expects the economy, the world's 10th biggest, to expand 7.6 percent this year after growing 8.1 percent in 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (79%); INFLATION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



415 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: The Genocide Continues

 BODY:
Despite the dispatch of United Nations peacekeepers to Darfur and the issuing of international arrest warrants for leaders of the genocide, the killing goes on. So does the burning of villages, the bombing of schools and the systematic rape of women and girls. And it will continue until the Security Council shows the will to stop it. 
 The Council needs to get more peacekeepers, helicopters and reconnaissance planes in the field, enforce the arrest warrants and increase diplomatic and financial pressure to get Sudan to stop obstructing the work of the peacekeepers. But the Council has shown little urgency in doing any of that.
 Thwarted by Sudan and the United Nations' own bureaucratic rules, far less than half of an anticipated force of 26,000 international soldiers and police officers is now in Darfur. That is too small to protect the population, or even the peacekeepers themselves. An additional 100,000 people have been forced from their homes since the peacekeepers began arriving in January.
 The Council (and separately the European Union) must ensure that Khartoum's leaders pay a price for their cruelty -- through expanded visa and financial sanctions against those coordinating the genocide as well as an expanded arms embargo. The International Criminal Court should get strong backing from the Council when it presents further charges next month. 
 Responsibility for the Darfur horrors lies squarely with the government of Sudan. Its army, air force and intelligence agencies have directly participated in the attacks. Ministers have coordinated the genocidal campaign. Ahmad Harun, sought by the International Criminal Court for planning atrocities while the deputy interior minister, has been promoted to minister of humanitarian affairs. He used that position to block the delivery of aid to Darfur refugee camps and to thwart the effective deployment of United Nations peacekeepers. 
 But a minority of Council members, led by China, have let their economic interests -- in Beijing's case substantial investments in Sudan's abundant oil supplies -- trump their moral and legal responsibility to thwart genocide. Last week, China's president, Hu Jintao, used stronger-than-usual language to urge Khartoum to cooperate with United Nations peacekeepers and enforce a cease-fire in Darfur. If China is prepared to back up those words with a tougher line in the Security Council, it could make a huge difference. 
 The Bush administration has its heart in the right place on Darfur. Its special envoy, Richard Williamson, has been a strong advocate for action, and Washington has imposed stiff sanctions of its own. But what's needed is stronger action by the Council as a whole.
 Darfur's plight is not yet hopeless, but without greater international commitment it may become so. As the criminal court's prosecutor told the Security Council on June 5, it takes a lot of planning and organization to commit massive crimes. 
 ''But mostly,'' he said, ''it requires that the rest of the world look away and do nothing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); ARMS EMBARGOES (66%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (63%); HELICOPTERS (56%); FINES & PENALTIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) SUDAN (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



416 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Booming, China Faults U.S. Policy On the economy

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Huang Yuanxi contributed research from Beijing. Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and Steven R. Weisman from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Not long ago, Chinese officials sat across conference tables from American officials and got an earful.
 The Americans scolded the Chinese on mismanaging their economy, from state subsidies to foreign investment regulations to the valuation of their currency. Your economic system, the Americans strongly implied, should look a lot more like ours.
 But in recent weeks, the fingers have been wagging in the other direction. Senior Chinese officials are publicly and loudly rebuking the Americans on their handling of the economy and defending their own more assertive style of regulation.
 Chinese officials seem to be galled by the apparent hypocrisy of Americans telling them what to do while the American economy is at best stagnant. China, on the other hand, has maintained its feverish growth. 
 Some officials are promoting a Chinese style of economic management that they suggest serves developing countries better than the American model, in much the same way they argue that they are in no hurry to copy American-style multiparty democracy.
 In the last six weeks alone, a senior banking regulator blamed Washington's ''warped conception'' of market regulation for the subprime mortgage crisis that is rattling the world economy; the Chinese envoy to the World Trade Organization called on the United States to halt the dollar's unchecked depreciation before the slide further worsens soaring oil and food prices; and Chinese agencies denounced a federal committee charged with vetting foreign investments in the United States, saying the Americans were showing ''hostility'' and a ''discriminatory attitude,'' not least toward the Chinese. 
 All this reflects a brash new sense of self-confidence on the part of the Chinese. China seems to feel unusually bold before the Summer Olympics, seen here as a curtain raiser for the nation's ascent to pre-eminence in the world. The devastating earthquake last month helped by turning world sympathy toward China and dampening criticism of its handling of Tibet.
 The Chinese attitude is no doubt bolstered by the lame-duck status of the Bush administration and by the fact that the United States is widely seen as having squandered its political and military leadership during the war in Iraq, which China opposed. Likewise, Chinese officials and state news media have suggested that the relatively quick mobilization of the Chinese Army during the recent earthquake in Sichuan Province contrasts favorably with the Bush administration's reaction to Hurricane Katrina.
 The aggressive stand comes at an inopportune moment for the White House. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and other cabinet members are to meet with Chinese officials in Annapolis, Md., on Tuesday in the latest round of semiannual economic talks. The Americans have a laundry list of complaints, among them that the Chinese use regulations to favor domestic companies over foreign rivals and that Beijing does too little to police the theft of copyrights and patents held by Western companies.
 The United States is also pressing China to address concerns about the safety of food and drugs it exports.
 But China has its own list of grievances, topped by management of the dollar and restrictions on foreign investment in the United States. And the Americans could find themselves with little negotiating leverage.
 ''U.S. credibility and the credibility of U.S. financial markets is zero everywhere in the world,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor of economics at Columbia University who has sharply criticized the Bush administration and praised China's economic management in the past. ''Anybody looking at this from the outside says, 'There's been a lot of hot air coming out of the U.S., so why should we listen to these guys when they didn't know how to manage risk?' ''
 Here in China, economic observers are noting that the Chinese posture toward the Americans has decidedly shifted.
 ''This time, the Chinese side is trying to change its attitude to be more active, to be more aggressive, to balance the two sides,'' said Song Hongbing, author of ''The Currency War,'' a best-selling if conspiratorial book on the American economy. ''They just started to change their attitude for the future.''
 Chinese officials are expressing their disdain in forums around the world. Last month, Liu Mingkang, the chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission, delivered a lecture at the British Museum in London in which he blamed the American government for the subprime mortgage crisis that came close to freezing Western debt markets and required extensive intervention by the Federal Reserve. The turmoil, he said, was ''counteracting the course of global civilization.''
 ''Does moneymaking or doing business justify the regulators in ignoring their duty for prudential supervision and their job of preventing misbehavior?'' he said.
 One of Mr. Liu's colleagues, Liao Min, told the newspaper The Financial Times in late May that the ''Western consensus on the relation between the market and the government should be reviewed.''
 ''In practice, they tend to overestimate the power of the market and overlook the regulatory role of the government, and this warped conception is at the root of the subprime crisis,'' said Mr. Liao, director general of the commission.
 China is grappling with its share of economic problems, including high inflation. But it has reasons to feel optimistic. 
 Some economists say it has improved its state-owned banking system by writing off bad debt and overhauling management even as it rejected American pressure to privatize banks and allow unfettered competition in the financial sector. Its financial system is more tightly regulated and less dynamic than the American one, but also more stable, Chinese economists argue.
 On currency management, China has been under heavy pressure to raise the value of the renminbi, which foreign critics say is maintained at an artificially low level to make Chinese exports less expensive. So far, China has managed to walk a tightrope. It has allowed the renminbi to increase in value against the dollar in tiny increments, for a total of 20 percent since 2005, a less dramatic change than the Bush administration and Congress demanded. 
 The gradual approach has allowed the export sector to adjust while preventing a currency shock that might derail growth.
 Meanwhile, the Americans allowed the dollar to plunge in value. That angered the Chinese, which keeps most of its $1.76 trillion in foreign reserves in dollars. Chinese officials have accused the Americans of mismanaging the dollar at a time when Washington is still pressing China to appreciate the renminbi to narrow the trade deficit.
 This month, the Chinese envoy to the World Trade Organization said in Geneva that the United States had failed to safeguard the value of its currency, worsening the pain for people around the world who pay high oil and food prices in dollars.
 The envoy, Sun Zhenyu, also said the United States was engaging in protectionism by imposing unfair duties on Chinese goods and subsidizing American products.
 Also this month, several Chinese institutions submitted sharp critiques to the Treasury Department of proposed new regulations relating to foreign investment in the United States. Some of the remarks were scathing.
 ''The regulations still include some sections and procedures which reflect the enshrouded protectionism, an obvious contradiction to the spirit of free competition the U.S. has championed since long time ago,'' wrote the China Securities Regulatory Commission. 
 The commission said the proposed regulations reflected a ''self-evident hostility'' and ''discriminatory attitude'' to certain types of foreign investments and ''will ultimately hurt enthusiasm of foreign investment in the U.S.''
 China was particularly stung in 2005 by opposition in Congress to a bid by its third largest national oil company to buy the Unocal Corporation, an American oil company, for $18.5 billion. 
 Mr. Paulson, the Treasury secretary, said Monday that he agreed that there had been a ''general trend'' of China's becoming increasingly vocal in its criticism of American policies, but that this was not a cause for concern.
 ''We've had a relationship where both sides have been pretty frank privately and pretty frank publicly,'' Mr. Paulson said in a telephone interview in Washington. He said China's criticism of American policies grew out of its rise as an economic power, with greater voice in global discussions on trade, currency and the flow of capital.
 Nicholas R. Lardy, a China expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said in an interview that ''the Chinese are reacting adversely, and I think with some justification.''
 He added, though, that he interpreted China's recent aggression more as a reaction to specific events or policies involving the American economy than as a result of a new surge in national confidence.
 If that is the case, China might be able to avoid the pitfall of hubris. Japan attacked the American government's economic management in the 1980s, only to find itself tumbling into recession and stagnation ever since. Some economic experts here warn that China's economy could soon feel the full brunt of the downturn in the world economy, and that the American economy, in the long run, could stay on top.
 ''The U.S. has always considered its economy powerful and is reluctant to listen to other countries,'' said Lin Jiang, the head of the economics department at the China Youth College for Political Sciences in Beijing. ''Of course China now is more confident than before and Chinese people are more proud of China's economy, but we can't be blind. It's still hard to challenge the U.S.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A steel factory in Kunming. China's economy has generally maintained strong growth while the American economy has stagnated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OFFICE FURNITURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); ARMIES (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (68%); HURRICANES (65%); OLYMPICS (63%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (62%); EARTHQUAKES (62%); PATENTS (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (52%); SUBPRIME LENDING (52%); FOOD PRICES (50%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (65%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (65%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); TIBET (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



417 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: After 75 Years, the Working Poor Still Struggle for a Fair Wage

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
At the height of the Great Depression, industry convinced President Franklin Roosevelt and Congress to enact a law allowing companies to collude to drive up prices. To balance out this giveaway to big business, the law gave workers something that they had long been fighting for: the first federal minimum wage.
 This week marks the 75th anniversary of the National Industrial Recovery Act -- which Roosevelt signed June 16, 1933, at the end of his famous first 100 days -- and of the federal minimum wage. It was a grudging, almost accidental win, and the road since then has been rocky. Advocates for low-income workers have had a hard time keeping the minimum wage at a reasonable level and passing other laws necessary to fulfill the original goal: ensuring that people who work hard can achieve a reasonable standard of living. 
 When progressives set out to establish a national minimum wage, they faced stiff opposition. Industry insisted that government should not interfere with its relations with its employees. Organized labor was also opposed. (''If you give them something for nothing,'' one labor leader objected, ''they won't join the union.'') The pro-business Supreme Court presented the biggest obstacle, ruling that minimum wages were unconstitutional.
 The Depression provided an opening. Progressives injected minimum-wage and maximum-hours provisions into the NIRA. These provisions were technically voluntary, but if companies wanted the government to approve the minimum prices and production limits they desperately wanted, they had to agree to minimum wages. Most industries adopted a minimum hourly wage of at least 40 cents.
 The Supreme Court declared the NIRA unconstitutional, but the idea of a federal minimum wage had taken hold. In 1938, Congress passed the Fair Labor Standards Act -- which a more progressive Supreme Court upheld -- creating a mandatory federal minimum wage. 
 The new law was enormously effective: within a year, it brought millions of low-paid workers up to a wage of 30 cents an hour. It also had major weaknesses, notably that it was not indexed to inflation. Congress has to raise it, which leaves low-income workers at the mercy of politics.
 The minimum wage continues to have powerful enemies. Businesses that pay low wages lobby strongly against increases, arguing that they cause jobs to disappear. The Bush administration has been hostile. When Elaine Chao was nominated to be the next labor secretary, she called for states to be able to opt out of the federal minimum wage -- which would destroy the whole idea of a national minimum wage.
 Last year, the new Democratic-controlled Congress raised the minimum wage for the first time in 10 years. The increase was a real victory. But even with it, the minimum wage -- which reaches $7.25 an hour in 2009 -- is still far below where it was in the 1960s, in real dollars. A family of three earning the 2009 minimum wage would still be well below the federal poverty line. And because the minimum wage remains unindexed, low-wage workers will fall even further behind before Congress rouses itself to grant another increase.
 Economists, who are more sophisticated today than they were in 1933, now place more emphasis on raising the Earned Income Tax Credit. Because it is tied to family income rather than wage levels, the tax credit can be targeted precisely at workers who need it most. There has also, understandably, been considerable focus this year on trying to provide the working poor -- and everyone else -- with affordable health care. 
 In this year's ''change'' election, more attention should be paid to the working poor, who were hit especially hard by the economic policies of the last eight years. There should be talk of tax credits and health care -- and the minimum wage. Advocates for the working poor argue for a better raise than the one Congress passed last year -- perhaps one set at half the national average hourly wage, which would bring it roughly to where it was in the 1960s, and tie it to the rate of inflation.
 The minimum wage can play a vital role in lifting hard-working families above the poverty line. But as Roosevelt understood, it is also about something larger: what kind of country America wants to be. ''A self-supporting and self-respecting democracy,'' he said in the Congressional message that accompanied the Fair Labor Standards Act, can plead ''no economic reason for chiseling workers' wages.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); APPEALS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



418 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; SCIENTIST AT WORK NORMAN T. UPHOFF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Food Revolution That Starts With Rice

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Many a professor dreams of revolution. But Norman T. Uphoff, working in a leafy corner of the Cornell University campus, is leading an inconspicuous one centered on solving the global food crisis. The secret, he says, is a new way of growing rice.
 Rejecting old customs as well as the modern reliance on genetic engineering, Dr. Uphoff, 67, an emeritus professor of government and international agriculture with a trim white beard and a tidy office, advocates a management revolt.
 Harvests typically double, he says, if farmers plant early, give seedlings more room to grow and stop flooding fields. That cuts water and seed costs while promoting root and leaf growth.
 The method, called the System of Rice Intensification, or S.R.I., emphasizes the quality of individual plants over the quantity. It applies a less-is-more ethic to rice cultivation. 
 In a decade, it has gone from obscure theory to global trend -- and encountered fierce resistance from established rice scientists. Yet a million rice farmers have adopted the system, Dr. Uphoff says. The rural army, he predicts, will swell to 10 million farmers in the next few years, increasing rice harvests, filling empty bellies and saving untold lives.
 ''The world has lots and lots of problems,'' Dr. Uphoff said recently while talking of rice intensification and his 38 years at Cornell. ''But if we can't solve the problems of peoples' food needs, we can't do anything. This, at least, is within our reach.''
 That may sound audacious given the depths of the food crisis and the troubles facing rice. Roughly half the world eats the grain as a staple food even as yields have stagnated and prices have soared, nearly tripling in the past year. The price jolt has provoked riots, panicked hoarding and violent protests in poor countries.
 But Dr. Uphoff has a striking record of accomplishment, as well as a gritty kind of farm-boy tenacity.
 He and his method have flourished despite the skepticism of his Cornell peers and the global rice establishment -- especially the International Rice Research Institute, which helped start the green revolution of rising grain production and specializes in improving rice genetics.
 His telephone rings. It is the World Bank Institute, the educational and training arm of the development bank. The institute is making a DVD to spread the word.
 ''That's one of the irons in the fire,'' he tells a visitor, looking pleased before plunging back into his tale. 
 Dr. Uphoff's improbable journey involves a Wisconsin dairy farm, a billionaire philanthropist, the jungles of Madagascar, a Jesuit priest, ranks of eager volunteers and, increasingly, the developing world. He lists top S.R.I. users as India, China, Indonesia, Cambodia and Vietnam among 28 countries on three continents. 
 In Tamil Nadu, a state in southern India, Veerapandi S. Arumugam, the agriculture minister, recently hailed the system as ''revolutionizing'' paddy farming while spreading to ''a staggering'' million acres. 
 Chan Sarun, Cambodia's agriculture minister, told hundreds of farmers at an agriculture fair in April that S.R.I.'s speedy growth promises a harvest of ''white gold.''
 On Cornell's agricultural campus, Dr. Uphoff runs a one-man show from an office rich in travel mementos. From Sri Lanka, woven rice stalks adorn a wall, the heads thick with rice grains.
 His computers link him to a global network of S.R.I. activists and backers, like Oxfam, the British charity. Dr. Uphoff is S.R.I.'s global advocate, and his Web site (ciifad.cornell.edu/sri/) serves as the main showcase for its principles and successes.
 ''It couldn't have happened without the Internet,'' he says. Outside his door is a sign, ''Alfalfa Room,'' with a large arrow pointing down the hall, seemingly to a pre-electronic age.
 Critics dismiss S.R.I. as an illusion. 
 ''The claims are grossly exaggerated,'' said Achim Dobermann, the head of research at the international rice institute, which is based in the Philippines. Dr. Dobermann said fewer farmers use S.R.I. than advertised because old practices often are counted as part of the trend and the method itself is often watered down.
 ''We don't doubt that good yields can be achieved,'' he said, but he called the methods too onerous for the real world. 
 By contrast, a former skeptic sees great potential. Vernon W. Ruttan, an agricultural economist at the University of Minnesota and a longtime member of the National Academy of Sciences, once worked for the rice institute and doubted the system's prospects.
 Dr. Ruttan now calls himself an enthusiastic fan, saying the method is already reshaping the world of rice cultivation. ''I doubt it will be as great as the green revolution,'' he said. ''But in some areas it's already having a substantial impact.''
 Robert Chambers, a leading analyst on rural development, who works at the University of Sussex, England, called it a breakthrough.
 ''The extraordinary thing,'' he said, ''is that both farmers and scientists have missed this -- farmers for thousands of years, and scientists until very recently and then some of them in a state of denial.''
 The method, he added, ''has a big contribution to make to world food supplies. Its time has come.''
 Dr. Uphoff grew up on a Wisconsin farm milking cows and doing chores. In 1966, he graduated from Princeton with a master's degree in public affairs and in 1970 from the University of California, Berkeley, with a doctorate in political science.
 At Cornell, he threw himself into rural development, irrigation management and credit programs for small farmers in the developing world. 
 In 1990, a secret philanthropist (eventually revealed to be Charles F. Feeney, a Cornell alumnus who made billions in duty-free shops) gave the university $15 million to start a program on world hunger. Dr. Uphoff was the institute's director for 15 years.
 The directorship took him in late 1993 to Madagascar. Slash-and-burn rice farming was destroying the rain forest, and Dr. Uphoff sought alternatives. 
 He heard that a French Jesuit priest, Father Henri de Laulanie, had developed a high-yield rice cultivation method on Madagascar that he called the System of Rice Intensification.
 Dr. Uphoff was skeptical. Rice farmers there typically harvested two tons per hectare (an area 100 by 100 meters, or 2.47 acres). The group claimed 5 to 15 tons.
 ''I remember thinking, 'Do they think they can scam me?' '' Dr. Uphoff recalled. ''I told them, 'Don't talk 10 or 15 tons. No one at Cornell will believe it. Let's shoot for three or four.' ''
 Dr. Uphoff oversaw field trials for three years, and the farmers averaged eight tons per hectare. Impressed, he featured S.R.I. on the cover of his institute's annual reports for 1996 and 1997.
 Dr. Uphoff never met the priest, who died in 1995. But the success prompted him to scrutinize the method and its origins.
 One clear advantage was root vigor. The priest, during a drought, had noticed that rice plants and especially roots seemed much stronger. That led to the goal of keeping fields damp but not flooded, which improved soil aeration and root growth.
 Moreover, wide spacing let individual plants soak up more sunlight and send out more tillers -- the shoots that branch to the side. Plants would send out upwards of 100 tillers. And each tiller, instead of bearing the usual 100 or so grains, would puff up with 200 to 500 grains. 
 One drawback was weeds. The halt to flooding let invaders take root, and that called for more weeding. A simple solution was a rotating, hand-pushed hoe, which also aided soil aeration and crop production.
 But that meant more labor, at least at first. It seemed that as farmers gained skill, and yields rose, the overall system became labor saving compared with usual methods.
 Dr. Uphoff knew the no-frills approach went against the culture of modern agribusiness but decided it was too good to ignore. In 1998, he began promoting it beyond Madagascar, traveling the world, ''sticking my neck out,'' as he put it.
 Slowly, it caught on, but visibility brought critics. They dismissed the claims as based on wishful thinking and poor record keeping, and did field trials that showed results similar to conventional methods.
 In 2006, three of Dr. Uphoff's colleagues at Cornell wrote a scathing analysis based on global data. ''We find no evidence,'' they wrote, ''that S.R.I. fundamentally changes the physiological yield potential of rice.''
 While less categorical, Dr. Dobermann of the rice research institute called the methods a step backward socially because they increased drudgery in rice farming, especially among poor women. 
 In his Cornell office, Dr. Uphoff said his critics were biased and knew little of S.R.I.'s actual workings. The method saves labor for most farmers, including women, he said. As for the skeptics' field trials, he said, they were marred by problems like using soils dead from decades of harsh chemicals and monocropping, which is the growing of the same crop on the same land year after year. 
 ''The critics have tried to say it's all zealotry and religious belief,'' Dr. Uphoff sighed. ''But it's science. I find myself becoming more and more empirical, judging things by what works.''
 His computer seems to hum with proof. A recent report from the Timbuktu region of Mali, on the edge of the Sahara Desert, said farmers had raised rice yields 34 percent, despite initial problems with S.R.I. guideline observance.
 In Laos, an agriculture official recently said S.R.I. had doubled the size of rice crops in three provinces and would spread to the whole country because it provided greater yields with fewer resources.
 ''Once we get over the mental barriers,'' Dr. Uphoff said, ''it can go very, very quickly because there's nothing to buy.''
 The opponents have agreed to conduct a global field trial that may end the dispute, he said. The participants include the rice institute, Cornell and Wageningen University, a Dutch institution with a stellar reputation in agriculture.
 The field trials may start in 2009 and run through 2011, Dr. Uphoff said. ''This should satisfy any scientific questions,'' he added. ''But my sense is that S.R.I. is moving so well and so fast that this will be irrelevant.''
 Practically, he said, the method is destined to grow. 
 ''It raises the productivity of land, labor, water and capital,'' he said. ''It's like playing with a stacked deck. So I know we're going to win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROOT VIGOR: Norman T. Uphoff of Cornell pioneered a global trend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIE-SOLEIL TURMEL) (pg.TR1)
 YIELD: The rice growing method is used in places like Indonesia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHUICHI SATO) (pg.F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RICE FARMING (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CROP RESEARCH (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); GRAIN FARMING (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); AGRONOMY (77%); BIOETHICS (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TRENDS (72%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); DAIRY FARMING (70%); ETHICS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH INDIA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) INDIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



419 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: You Still Fly Commercial? That's So Down-Market

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WE are developing in this country an upstairs-downstairs air transportation system. Downstairs is the commercial airline industry -- constricting, retrenching, ever more expensive to fly and struggling for survival.
 Upstairs, for those who can pay the price, is business aviation -- thriving and expanding. In the first quarter of this year, shipments of business jets were up 41 percent over the same period last year. In 2007, a record 1,138 business jets were shipped by manufacturers, up 28.4 percent from the 866 shipped in 2006.
 Add those numbers to these, released Monday by the Stanford Transportation Group, an aviation consulting firm, and you will start to understand one basic dilemma of the commercial airline industry: 
 In 2000, commercial airlines flew 79 million so-called premium passengers (defined as those flying first-class, business-class and full-fare coach) on one-way domestic trips. Last year, despite a sharp increase in overall passenger traffic, that number was 42 million. Premium passengers, incidentally, account for about twice the revenue per passenger mile as nonpremium passengers.
 In the same period, the estimated number of passengers flying one-way trips on business aircraft climbed steadily, to 17 million last year -- or 41 percent of the total number of commercial airline premium passengers. In 2000, it was a mere 15 percent.
 ''It has just kept growing, and now this is starting to become very significant because you're looking at passengers who want something other than the cheapest air fare from A to B and are willing to pay for it,'' said Gerald Bernstein, the managing director of Stanford Transportation Group. 
 ''So you are not comparing the business aviation traveler with the backpacker, you're comparing them with the premium airline traveler, who typically pays twice as much'' to an airline for the comfort to work en route, as well as for the ability to depart on short notice and change schedules readily. 
 This, in short, is the prime domestic business traveler, and a good number of them are willing to pay more -- even significantly more, it seems -- for private aviation. 
 The commercial airline industry does not dispute that this segment of its domestic business has eroded since 2000. It does, however, argue vehemently that business aviation gets pretty much a free ride in its rapidly increasing use of the domestic air space and air traffic control resources.
 At the end of last year, there were about 8,000 commercial jets flying in the United States, and about 18,000 corporate jets, said David Castleveter, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, the commercial airline trade group. Private jets, of course, account for far fewer takeoff and landings and passengers. In general, Mr. Castleveter said, commercial airlines use about 66 percent of the resources of federal air traffic control but pay about 96 percent of the costs.
 The battle between commercial airlines and business aviation is heating up, but if present economic trends continue, Mr. Castleveter said, business aviation, for those who can afford it, will simply keep growing at the expense of commercial aviation.
 ''If we continue to see fuel go up, you're going to have more carriers go out of business,'' he said. ''You're going to have more small communities lose air service; you're going to have more capacity reductions.'' 
 That obviously leaves room for business aviation, which itself is changing from ownership models to sales of jet time in hourly increments, as well as an emerging on-demand air taxi business. Meanwhile, one of the big operators of business jets, Xojet, recently announced $2.5 billion in new financing for a major expansion, including the addition of 80 super-midsize Challenger 300 jets. 
 ''The costs of business aviation are going to get cheaper, and business aviation is also changing the air transportation system to be more of a point-to-point system,'' said Paul Touw, Xojet's chief executive. Xojet caters to those who fly at least 100 hours a year, and promotes costs that it says are significantly lower than competitors'. 
 Mr. Bernstein, of Stanford Transport Group, said he does see a two-tier system developing. ''There is going to be continued experimentation in business aviation,'' he went on, ''with the air taxis and various other models searching for a way to provide a higher and more reliable travel experience -- and yes, at a higher cost.''
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FARES (89%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

COMPANY: AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



420 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words

 BODY:
SHAREHOLDER FIRM SETTLES The best-known shareholder law firm in the United States has agreed to pay $75 million to avoid a criminal trial and end a seven-year investigation. 
 EURO STRONG DESPITE VOTE Ireland's rejection of the Lisbon Treaty has plunged Europe into a familiar bout of angst about the future of its grand experiment in political and economic integration, but the outcome has not adversely effected the euro. [C1.] 
 DEMAND FOR DATA EXPERTS Data center experts who keep up with the demands of Internet-era computing used to be engineers who were seldom seen and little recognized. That has changed. [C1.] 
 A NEW KIND OF CARHonda Motor celebrated the start of production of its FCX Clarity, below, the world's first hydrogen-powered fuel-cell vehicle intended for mass production, as hundreds of Honda employees wearing white jump suits applauded at a factory an hour north of Tokyo. [C1.]
 A GOLDEN OFFER With InBev offering an 18 percent premium over Anheuser-Busch's highest-ever share price, it would seem to be a hard deal to turn down. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 AID FOR TROUBLED BORROWERS Mortgage companies are promising to let troubled borrowers know within 45 days if they are approved for help. [C2.]
 SUIT TO GO ON The Supreme Court has refused to hear an appeal by Exxon Mobil to dismiss a lawsuit by 11 Indonesian villagers who claim the company's security forces committed human rights abuses. [C6.]
 HELP WITH THE VISA Travel visas can be difficult to obtain, but there are companies more than willing to help. [C8.] 
 GROWTH IN BUSINESS JET USE Business aviation is flourishing, which could be detrimental for the commercial airline industry. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.] 
 TRYING TO RIGHT LEHMAN A week after announcing a $2.8 billion loss in the first-quarter and a management shake-up, Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive of Lehman Brothers, says the bank ''has begun to take the necessary steps to restore the credibility'' and will provide more transparency into its business and assets. [C1.]
 NEW U.S.-CHINA DEALS On the eve of economic talks to ease tensions between the two countries, top businesses in China and the United States have announced $14 billion in business deals. [C3.] 
 CONCERN OVER INTERFERENCE A dispute over an oil company is renewing concerns about the Kremlin's meddling in big business and the rights of foreign investors. [C3.]
 BARCLAYS TO RAISE CAPITAL Shares of Barclays, the British bank, rose after the lender said it was considering a plan to sell new shares, although it gave no indication of how much money it would seek to raise. [C6.]
 BIG STEP FOR A RADIO MERGER The head of the Federal Communications Commission will circulate a plan to approve the merger of the nation's two satellite radio companies. [C6.] 
 'SOUL TRAIN' REVIVAL Don Cornelius, the founder of ''Soul Train,'' has sold the franchise to a company that wants to revive the music and dance show, which has not added new episodes since 2006. [C3.] 
 CUTBACKS BY NEWSPAPER CHAIN McClatchy, one of the nation's biggest newspaper chains, will cut its work force by about 1,400 people because of the sluggish economy and contraction in the industry. [C6.] 
 POLITICS AND ADVERTISING MIX Can a campaign with politically themed ads, sometimes lifting incidents from actual campaigns, avoid offending people or looking silly or awkward? Unilever offers a test. Advertising. [C7.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: Lehman Brothers price per share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EURO (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); APPEALS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (69%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%); AIRLINES (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); INTERNET & WWW (55%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (54%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (65%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (56%); ABI (BRU) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



421 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Latest Honda Runs on Hydrogen, Not Petroleum

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TAKANEZAWA, Japan 

 BODY:
It looks like an ordinary family sedan, costs more to build than a Ferrari and may have just moved the world one step closer to a future free of petroleum.
 On Monday, Honda Motor celebrated the start of production of its FCX Clarity, the world's first hydrogen-powered fuel-cell vehicle intended for mass production. In a ceremony at a factory an hour north of Tokyo, the first assembly-line FCX Clarity rolled out to the applause of hundreds of Honda employees wearing white jump suits.
 Honda will make just 200 of the futuristic vehicles over the next three years, but said it eventually planned to increase production volumes, especially as hydrogen filling stations became more common. On Monday, Honda announced its first five customers, who included the actress Jamie Lee Curtis. 
 Honda said even the small initial production run represented progress toward a clean-burning technology that many rejected as too exotic and too expensive to gain wide acceptance. 
 ''Basically, we can mass produce these now,'' said Kazuaki Umezu, head of Honda's Automobile New Model Center, where the FCX Clarity is built. ''We are waiting for the infrastructure to catch up.''
 Fuel-cell vehicles have been a sort of holy grail of the auto industry, offering the promise of driving without emitting air-polluting exhaust. Fuel cells work by combining hydrogen and oxygen from ordinary air to make electricity, in a process whose only byproducts are water and heat. They have drawn renewed attention in an era of climate change, $140 a barrel oil, and rising competition for dwindling fossil fuels. 
 ''This is a must-have technology for the future of the earth,'' said Takeo Fukui, Honda's president. ''Honda will work hard to mainstream fuel-cell cars.''
 Fuel cells have an advantage over electric cars, whose batteries take hours to recharge and use electricity, which, in the case of the United States, China and many other countries, is often produced by coal-burning power plants. 
 Honda says its FCX Clarity can be filled easily at a pump, can drive 280 miles on a tank, almost as far as a gasoline car. It also gets higher fuel efficiency than a gasoline car or hybrid, the equivalent of 74 miles a gallon of gas, according to the company.
 But the technology has faced many hurdles, not the least of which has been the prohibitive cost of the fuel cells themselves. Honda says it has found ways to mass produce them, which promises to drive down costs through economies of scale. On Monday, it showed reporters its fuel-cell production line, which resembled a semiconductor factory more than an auto plant with its humming automated machinery and white smocked workers in dust-free rooms. 
 Mr. Fukui said the cars cost several hundred thousand dollars each to produce, though he said that should drop below $100,000 in less than a decade as production volumes increase. In the meantime, the car company will be effectively subsidizing its customers, who will lease the vehicles for $600 a month. That is not much more than the leasing price of one of Honda's top Acura line of luxury cars.
 At Monday's ceremony, Mr. Fukui presented an oversize key to the first FCX Clarity customer, a film producer from Los Angeles on hand for the occasion. Honda said it would offer the car in Southern California first because the state has been a leader in building hydrogen filling stations. 
 Honda said the five had been chosen after the company got a wave of queries from American consumers when it publicized the car last year. On Monday, Honda also announced three dealerships near Los Angeles that will be the first to start leasing FCX Claritys. 
 Fuel-cell vehicles have been a big gamble for Honda, which has spent the last 16 years and millions of dollars -- the company will not say exactly how much -- developing them. For a time, the company was criticized for pouring money into unproven technologies while refusing to follow the rest of the industry into large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks.
 Now, with gas prices soaring, Honda is in an enviable position of not being burdened with large inventories of gas-guzzling full-frame trucks that require hefty incentives to sell, or the factories that build them. Analysts have said Honda and the rival Japanese carmaker Toyota have seized a commanding lead in more efficient, green technologies like hybrids as well as fuel cells.
 Honda says one big breakthrough was shrinking the size of its fuel cells. In the FCX Clarity, they fit in a box-shaped unit the size of a desktop PC that weighs about 150 pounds, less than half of their size a decade ago. 
 The FCX Clarity's fuel-cell unit can generate up to 100 kilowatts of electricity, enough to accelerate the car from zero to 60 miles an hour in less than nine seconds, and give it top speeds of 100 miles an hour, Honda says. Even at high speed, the FCX Clarity, a four-door sedan that looks like a sleeker version of the Accord, drives with the hushed whine of a golf cart.
 Honda said a big remaining hurdle to true mass production is the lack of filling stations that sell hydrogen. Even in California, where the state government has led a push to build hydrogen stations, there are still very few public stations, Honda said. That will make it hard to drive the car far from home, limiting its appeal, the company said.
 For now, the first batch of customers seem drawn by the car's novelty as much as anything else. The first owner, the film producer Ron Yerxa, said he did not plan to drive it far, just to work and to eat out -- far enough to draw the admiration of passers-by.
 ''When I drive it to breakfast, people will ask about it,'' Mr. Yerxa said. ''They'll want one, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Honda workers with an FCX Clarity at a factory in Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
''This is a must-have technology for the future of the earth,'' Takeo Fukui, left, Honda's president, said of the FCX Clarity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The FCX Clarity on a test drive after an introduction ceremony in Japan on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIKAZU TSUNO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (91%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); SEDANS (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); FUEL CELL MFG (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); AIR POLLUTION (70%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (93%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



422 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS Shares Are Mixed as Oil Price Declines

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street started the week with a mixed finish on Monday as investors weighed volatility in oil prices against new hope for the financial sector after Lehman Brothers posted results.
 Stocks spent much of the session mostly lower after a fresh record for crude oil and a decline in regional manufacturing activity touched off concerns about the economy.
 But more buyers turned out after an afternoon retreat in oil. And financials were among the biggest gainers after Lehman offered more insights into its financial well-being. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 38.27 points, or 0.31 percent, to 12,269.08 after being down more than 95 points early in the session.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 0.11 of a point, or 0.01 percent, to 1,360.14. The Nasdaq composite index, which contains many technology names, rose 20.28 points, or 0.83 percent, to 2,474.78.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 7.13 points, or 0.97 percent, to 740.74.
 The day started with worrisome economic news. The New York Federal Reserve Bank's Empire State index indicated that manufacturing activity in New York State continued to weaken in June. The index fell to a negative 8.7, from a negative 3.7 a month earlier. The report is the earliest of several monthly regional snapshots that investors look to for insights on economic activity.
 The manufacturing report and an early jump in energy prices fanned worries that rising prices in an already uncertain economy would further restrain consumer spending. 
 Richard Campagna, managing director at Provident Investment Counsel in Pasadena, Calif., said the gains in financial stocks helped shore up confidence in the overall market.
 ''You're finally seeing some stability in the financials,'' he said. He pointed to Lehman's results: ''They gave more information. The fact that they're becoming less leveraged, more transparent -- all that's positive.''
 A weak dollar helped drive the price of a barrel of oil to a record near $140 early Monday, while retail gas prices hit a new high of $4.08 a gallon. Light crude set a trading record of $139.89 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, before settling down 25 cents at $134.61 as investors responded to a pledge by Saudi Arabia to increase oil production.
 Lehman's report, which matched a week-old forecast from the company, appeared to assuage some concerns about the ability of the financial sector to extricate itself from bad bets on mortgage debt. The investment bank posted a second-quarter loss of $2.87 billion, or $5.14 a share. The loss was the first for Lehman since it went public in 1994. Lehman rose $1.14, or 4.5 percent, to $26.98.
 Mr. Campagna said investors appeared to be making modest bets ahead of quarterly results due Tuesday from the investment bank Goldman Sachs.
 ''No one is really willing to let the market run and dive in until they hear from Goldman,'' he said.
 Treasury prices firmed after falling sharply last week amid worries that inflation would erode returns. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32, to 96 27/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, was 4.27 percent, little changed from Friday's 4.26 percent.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 THE FAVORITES: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); FUEL MARKETS (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (85%); 300 NORTH CAPITAL LLC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



423 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: China Still Lags Behind U.S. In Influence, Survey Shows

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
Despite China's remarkable economic rise, and its efforts to spread its influence in Asia through what is known as ''soft power,'' the country still lags far behind the United States in that sphere, according to a survey to be released Tuesday. 
 The survey suggests that China has a long way to go before it is perceived as a multi-faceted power and that the country has not yet found a way to translate economic gains into soft power -- or the ability to influence people and nations through nonmilitary means, like culture, diplomacy, politics and education.
 The study, conducted by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs and the East Asia Institute in South Korea, is the latest effort to assess China's rise at a time when American influence is widely believed to be in decline, partly because of the war in Iraq.
 Many academics say China is seeking to become a global super power that relies on soft power rather than on military might, and that trade deals have helped it gain tremendous influence in the developing world.
 But the study concludes that many Asians fear China's rise as much as they admire it, and worry that China could become a military threat.
 The study was conducted from January to March in China, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Indonesia and the United States, before riots erupted in China's ethnic Tibetan regions and a devastating earthquake struck. Between 800 and 1,250 adults were interviewed in each country. 
 ''There's been a lot of coverage lately about the relative decline of U.S. influence globally and a China that's ascendant,'' said Christopher B. Whitney, executive director for studies at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. ''But we came to some surprising conclusions. There's been a significant decline in perceptions of the U.S., but there's still this fount of good will in the region because of U.S. companies, brands, education and diplomacy.''
 American perceptions of China have grown increasingly negative, the survey showed, because of concerns over human rights, the rule of law and worries about China as a strategic competitor.
 The authors of the study accompanying the survey said that many respondents respected China's cultural heritage, but found the influence of China's politics or popular culture less impressive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); IRAQ WAR (68%); EARTHQUAKES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); RIOTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%); TIBET (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



424 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Fearing The Loss Of a Haven

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The community center at Parkside Houses, a public housing complex in the Bronx, has one floor, four rooms and many uses. 
 Adults work on their resumes on one of 10 computers or play Scrabble on Friday nights. Teenagers congregate around the pool tables in the game room or train for competition as part of the Parkside Knights track and field team. But the center, on the ground floor of a red-brick building across from a wooded stretch of the Bronx River Parkway, is really a children's place. 
 After school on Thursday, about a dozen children sat in the multipurpose room making Father's Day cards out of construction paper and buttons while several boys and girls played chess and video games down the hall. They ate turkey and cheese sandwiches. They got help with their homework.
 Andre and Giovani Delgado spend their afternoons at the center, waiting for their mother, Ruth Delgado, to pick them up at about 5:30 p.m. Ms. Delgado, a building custodian and single mother, said she trusted the staff and liked the price: $80 a year to enroll Andre, 9, and Giovani, 11, in the center's after-school program. 
 But Ms. Delgado and other parents are worried about the fate of the center. The city's public housing agency, the New York City Housing Authority, announced last month that budget problems could force it to close Parkside and hundreds of other community centers, senior centers and recreational, job-training and educational programs throughout the five boroughs.
 Ms. Delgado said that she made $11.10 an hour and could not afford to hire a baby sitter. She would be left with one option if the center closed: ''I'm going to have to get my oldest one a key so they can be home by themselves,'' she said, shaking her head.
 The proposed cuts would affect hundreds of thousands of children, adults and older people who live in the city's 343 public housing complexes, as well as thousands of others who are not residents but regularly use the centers. The plan has outraged tenants, public housing advocates and City Council members, focusing renewed attention on the New York City Housing Authority's budget shortfall and its financial dealings with the city. 
 For the authority, the move to cut the centers and programs illustrates the severity of its financial crisis, threatening to reshape an agency that built its national reputation on providing low-income families with not only bricks-and-mortar shelter but also quality-of-life services. For tenants, it would simply mean less: fewer activities and fewer places to socialize and take their children.
 The controversy over the agency's plan has not played out in typical New York fashion. Tenants and their supporters are sympathetic for the most part to the agency's financial troubles and place much of the blame on the city, state and federal governments, which they say have been cutting financing for public housing for years.
 ''They basically have no other choice,'' Councilman Erik Martin Dilan of Brooklyn, chairman of the Council's Housing and Buildings Committee, said of the agency's plan. 
 Still, there have been questions about whether the authority -- the city's biggest landlord, with a $2.8 billion operating budget -- has done all it could to tighten its finances before cutting popular and important programs. 
 Asked that question by Councilman Robert Jackson of Manhattan at a recent hearing, Tino Hernandez, the agency's chairman, said, ''I don't go with hat in hand to the federal government, to the state, the City Council, the mayor, if we have not put our house in order.'' 
 The public housing population is made up of predominantly low-income and moderate-income families. The average household income is $22,119, and the average monthly rent for a one-bedroom unit is $281. Many residents live in neighborhoods where resources and services are scarce: A City Council report last month found that nearly three of every four public housing developments are closer to check-cashing stores than to bank branches.
 Some residents fear that closing the centers would rob elderly tenants of a vital social network and would give young people nowhere to go, leading them into mischief, vandalism or worse. ''What are they going to do?'' said Lisa Kenner, 49, a longtime resident of the Van Dyke Houses in Brooklyn and the president of the resident association there. ''They're going to get into trouble. At least the center keeps them out of trouble.''
 The agency's community centers come in all shapes, sizes and conditions. Some are more popular than others. Fifteen that were identified as underutilized have already been closed, and four others are in the process of closing for the same reason. But many have functioned as neighborhood hubs -- emergency cooling centers during heat waves, halls that people rent for birthday parties or wedding receptions.
 ''They're anchors to the community,'' said Hugh B. Spence, the Housing Authority's deputy general manager for community operations. 
 Since 1995, the agency has invested $200 million in expanding, renovating and building community centers. At the Parkside center, an average of 200 residents and nonresidents of all ages visit daily. In 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg toured the center and even held a staff meeting there. On Thursday, Jonnae Rhodes, 6, applied Elmer's glue to her Father's Day card and said she would miss the center if it closed.
 ''I'd be sad,'' Jonnae said. ''I made a lot of friends.''
 The Housing Authority, the largest public housing system in the country, is facing a $195 million deficit in its operating budget this year. It expects that gap to grow to $207 million in 2012. The primary cause, authority officials said, is dwindling financial support from the federal government. Since 2001, the agency has lost a total of $611 million in federal dollars, money it qualified for under a federal spending formula but did not receive because of shortfalls in Congressional appropriations. 
 Agency officials said that without increased government financing, they would shutter all of the 94 community centers that they operate, along with 140 senior centers operated by the agency or the city's Department for the Aging and dozens of resident programs. An additional 135 day care and Head Start programs and 48 centers sponsored by community groups are also at risk, as the authority considers increasing the cost of using its facilities. 
 Social services that the agency provides to mentally disabled tenants, domestic violence victims and others are not part of the proposed cuts, officials said. 
 The cuts threaten the future of the holiday toy drive and the resident art show, an annual display of tenants' paintings, sculptures and other works of art on the Lower East Side. The New York City Housing Authority Youth Chorus, which performed at the mayor's first inauguration, and the annual basketball tournament, one of the largest in the city, with about 250 teams and 3,000 youths, would lose financial support from the agency, officials said.
 The authority has said that the closing of centers and programs could start as soon as July 1. At a rally on Wednesday at City Hall, council members said they were working with the mayor's office to secure at least $70 million to keep the centers and programs open. The agency has said that the cuts would save it $76 million annually.
 Jason Post, a spokesman for the mayor, said in a statement that ''while difficult budget times mean difficult decisions for all of city government, we will continue to do what we can, and to work with our partners in the City Council, to provide support and services to residents of public housing.''
 Council members said they wanted to take a closer look at the more than $200 million a year that the city charges the Housing Authority for police, sanitation and other services. ''Those are services that other landlords in the city do not pay for,'' said Councilwoman Rosie Mendez, the chairwoman of the Council's Public Housing Subcommittee. ''We're treating the Housing Authority differently from private landlords who are making profits.''
 Council members and tenants also criticized the city and state for what they described as ''shortchanging'' public housing. The Housing Authority spends millions of dollars a year operating 21,000 units that the city and the state built. But the agency no longer receives regular financing from the city or the state for those units. To pay for the upkeep of the units and to trim costs overall, the agency has eliminated hundreds of jobs, deferred or cut 100 capital projects and is considering raising the rents on its highest-income households.
 Agnes Rivera, 57, a resident of the Wagner Houses in East Harlem and a member of the grass-roots group Community Voices Heard, disrupted the Council hearing at City Hall last month by storming out with other chanting tenants. She said she was angry not with the Housing Authority, but with city, state and federal politicians. ''If it was their parents living in those complexes and their parents partaking in those senior centers,'' Ms. Rivera said, ''would they attack them so fast, or would they provide the money?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An average of 200 people of all ages use the center daily at Parkside Houses, where girls recently walked an imaginary fashion runway, top
children made Father's Day cards
and Marc Anthony Reyes, 10, left, and Andre Delgado, 9, worked on a computer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B2)
 Ishmael Sylle, 12, above, focusing on a chess game at Parkside Houses' community center in the Bronx. After-school programs are popular. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); BOARD GAMES (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); CHILD CARE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); TRACK & FIELD (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); CITIES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



425 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Another Bad Deal for Baghdad

BYLINE: By KARL E. MEYER. 
Karl E. Meyer, a former member of The Times editorial board and the editor at large of World Policy Journal, is the co-author, with Shareen Blair Brysac, of ''Kingmakers: The Invention of the Modern Middle East.''

 BODY:
WITH only perfunctory debate, the Bush administration is pressuring a divided Iraqi government to approve a security agreement that could haunt Washington's relations with Baghdad for years to come. The ''strategic alliance'' that President Bush is proposing eerily resembles, in spirit and in letter, a failed 1930 treaty between Britain and Iraq that prompted a nationalist eruption in Baghdad, a pro-Nazi military coup and a pogrom that foreshadowed the elimination of Baghdad's ancient Jewish community. 
 The outline of the deal, which has not been made public, has been described by a high-level Iraqi insider, Ali A. Allawi, a moderate Shiite who was a post-invasion finance minister. Writing this month in The Independent of London, Mr. Allawi noted a disturbing parallel between the proposed alliance between the United States and Iraq and the earlier treaty that formally ended Iraq's post-World War I status as a British mandate. 
 ''The treaty gave Britain military and economic privileges in exchange for Britain's promise to end the mandate over the country,'' Mr. Allawi wrote. ''The treaty was ratified by a docile Iraqi Parliament but was bitterly resented by nationalists. Iraq's dependency on Britain poisoned Iraqi politics for the next quarter-century. Riots, civil disturbances, uprisings and coups were all features of Iraq's political landscape, prompted in no small measure by the bitter disputations over the treaty with Britain.''
 Under the 1930 pact, Iraq had to consult Britain on security issues and allow it the use of Iraqi airports, ports, railways and rivers. Two major military bases were leased to the British, who were empowered to station their forces throughout Iraq. British personnel were granted immunity from local prosecution. 
 Almost 80 years later, the Bush administration seeks a startlingly similar arrangement. While not formally a treaty (having been carefully crafted to avoid the requirement of Senate ratification), the wide-ranging pact that the United States proposes nearly replicates the 1930 accord. According to press reports based on leaks from the Iraqi Parliament, the pact envisions giving the Americans rights to as many as 58 military bases and control of Iraqi airspace. It would grant immunity from Iraqi laws to American military personnel. And it would empower American officials to detain suspected terrorists without the approval of Iraqi authorities. 
 The agreement, which Washington is pushing Baghdad to sign by July 31, would replace the United Nations mandate that now authorizes the American occupation. Iraq would be freed from Security Council sanctions and would benefit from continued American military and economic aid. Iraq could also receive as much as $50 billion in blocked assets, dating back to the first gulf war, that are now held by the United States.
 The 1930 treaty was followed by Iraqi independence and then more than a score of coups, countercoups, massacres and rebellions. Many Iraqis objected to British collusion with the ruling Sunni elite, and protested the use of British warplanes to suppress tribal uprisings. The legal immunity given to British forces generated even more resentment, a history detailed by Elie Kedourie, a British scholar born in Baghdad. 
 The nationalist uprising culminated in an Axis-backed putsch in April 1941, when Iraqi colonels exploited these grievances to seize power bloodlessly. Following the only pro-German coup in the wartime Middle East, British forces rushed to Baghdad to oust the leaders, who fled as Allied troops approached. 
 To preserve the fiction that Iraq's liberation was indigenous, however, the British held back from crossing the Tigris and entering downtown Baghdad. That May, absent any occupying authority, two days of looting and rioting broke out as the capital's Jews were celebrating the festival of Shavuot, while the British troops looked on. This pogrom, called the farhud, claimed hundreds of lives and presaged the wholesale destruction after 1948 of the largest and oldest Jewish community in the Arab Middle East. 
 After its 1930 treaty with Iraq, Britain proved unable to ensure order during the decade of nationalist tumult that followed. Rarely has the proverb about repeating history been more vividly signaled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUPS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); IMMUNITY (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WORLD WAR I (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); RIOTS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



426 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: McClatchy to Cut 1,400 Newspaper Jobs

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The McClatchy Company, one of the nation's biggest newspaper chains, said Monday that it would cut its work force by 10 percent, or around 1,400 people, after having already eliminated about 2,000 jobs over 18 months. 
 As the newspaper industry suffers through both a long-term contraction and a sluggish economy, McClatchy has been hit harder than most, because it relies heavily on the troubled California and Florida markets. McClatchy, based in Sacramento, Calif., reported Monday that for the first five months of the year, its revenue dropped 14.2 percent from the prior year.
 The deepest cut will hit The Miami Herald, one of McClatchy's largest papers, which told its staff on Monday that it would eliminate 250 jobs, or 17 percent of its work force.
 In a memorandum to McClatchy employees, Howard C. Weaver, vice president for news, said that across the company, 310 to 320 newsroom positions would be cut, or about 9 percent of the total. In recent years, McClatchy has bucked the industry trend by avoiding deep staff cuts, particularly in its newsrooms.
 In the new round of cuts, ''there will be voluntary buyouts, there will be some layoffs, and there will be some managed attrition,'' said Elaine Lintecum, McClatchy's treasurer. She said the buyouts and layoffs would be carried out quickly.
 McClatchy owns The Sacramento Bee, The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, The Kansas City Star, The Charlotte Observer, two dozen smaller daily newspapers, 50 nondaily papers and large stakes in some major Internet companies like CareerBuilder.
 Ad revenue at McClatchy's newspapers fell 15.4 percent this year through May from 2007, the company reported Monday. Ad revenue dropped more than 22 percent at its California and Florida papers, reflecting the severity of the housing crisis there. Classified ads for real estate and employment are off about 36 percent, accounting for more than half the decline in revenue.
 In April, McClatchy reported a first-quarter loss of just under $1 million on $488 million in revenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); TRENDS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%)

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (97%); SACRAMENTO BEE (54%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



427 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of the Humble Engineer

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In Silicon Valley, the stars have long been charismatic marketing visionaries and cool-nerd software wizards. By contrast, mechanical engineers who design and run computer data centers were traditionally regarded as little more than blue-collar workers in the high-tech world.
 For years, they toiled in relative obscurity in the engine rooms of the digital economy, amid the racks of servers and storage devices that power everything from online videos to corporate e-mail systems. Their mission was to keep the computing power plants humming, while scant thought was given to rising costs and energy consumption.
 Today, data center experts are no longer taken for granted. The torrid growth in data centers to keep pace with the demands of Internet-era computing, their immense need for electricity and their inefficient use of that energy pose environmental, energy and economic challenges, experts say. 
 That means people with the skills to design, build and run a data center that does not endanger the power grid are suddenly in demand. Their status is growing, as are their salaries -- climbing more than 20 percent in the last two years into six figures for experienced engineers. 
 ''The data center energy problem is growing fast, and it has an economic importance that far outweighs the electricity use,'' said Jonathan G. Koomey, a consulting professor of environmental engineering at Stanford. ''So that explains why these data center people, who haven't gotten a lot of glory in their careers, are in the spotlight now.'' 
 At one time, ''we were seen as sheet metal jockeys,'' said Chandrakant Patel, a mechanical engineer at Hewlett-Packard Labs who has worked in Silicon Valley for 25 years. ''But now we have a chance to change the world for the better, using engineering and basic science.''
 There is no letup in the demand for data center computing. Digital Realty Trust, a data center landlord with more than 70 facilities, says that customer demand for new space is running 50 percent ahead of its capacity to build and equip data centers for the next two years. ''We're building the railroads of the future, and we can't keep up,'' said Chris J. Crosby, a senior vice president at Digital Realty.
 For every new center, new data center administrators need to be hired. ''It takes us eight months to find a guy to run a data center,'' said Mr. Crosby. 
 Indeed, some data managers with only a degree from a two-year college can command a $100,000 salary. Trade and professional conferences for data center experts, unheard of years ago, are now commonplace. Five-figure signing bonuses, retention bonuses and generous stock grants have become ingredients in the compensation packages of data center experts today.
 Paul Marcoux knows the feeling of being wanted. Cisco Systems, giant Silicon Valley maker of equipment used in data centers, recently held a nationwide search for a vice president for ''green engineering.'' It needed someone who could manage the traditional information technology functions as well as increasingly important mechanical and electrical systems. 
 Last November, Cisco found Mr. Marcoux, an electrical engineer with an M.B.A. working at American Power Conversion, a manufacturer of power supplies and air-conditioners for data centers. Mr. Marcoux, 57, worked on the design and construction of about 100 data centers in his 30-year career.
 ''To really make progress, we have to bridge the analog and the digital worlds,'' said Mr. Marcoux.
 At Cisco, Mr. Marcoux is applying his experience to improving the company's data centers and its products, so that its computers increasingly can communicate with the coolers and power generators. ''Our products need to talk to the power supplies and air-conditioners instead of being standalone boxes,'' he explained.
 Cisco is just one of the many companies -- and the Energy Department's Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory -- working on the challenge of making data centers operate more like seamless machines, using sensors and software, for example, so the computers can direct air-conditioners and fans where and what level of cooling is needed. 
 Mr. Patel is overseeing H.P.'s programs in energy-efficient data centers and technology. The research includes advanced projects like trying to replace copper wiring in server computers with laser beams. But like other experts in the field, Mr. Patel says that data centers can be made 30 percent to 50 percent more efficient by applying current technology. 
 The pace of the data center buildup is the result of the surging use of server computers, which in the United States rose to 11.8 million in 2007, from 2.6 million a decade earlier, according to IDC, a research firm. Worldwide, the 10-year pattern is similar, with the server population increasing more than fourfold to 30.3 million by 2007. 
 ''For years and years, the attitude was just buy it, install it and don't worry about it,'' said Vernon Turner, an analyst for IDC. ''That led to all sorts of inefficiencies. Now, we're paying for that behavior.'' 
 The problem is that most computers in data centers run at 15 percent or less of capacity on average, loafing the rest of the time, though consuming electricity all the while. (In the old days, when they housed a few large computers, data centers were far more efficient. Mainframe computers run at 80 percent of capacity or more.)
 The computers also generate a lot of heat, so much so that half of the energy consumed by a typical data center is for enormous air-conditioners, fans and other industrial equipment used mainly to cool the high-tech facilities.
 The nation's data centers doubled their energy consumption in the five years to 2006, exceeding the electricity used by the country's color televisions, according to the latest government estimates. 
 The availability of electricity, not just its cost, presents a threat to the continued expansion of data center computing that can hamper companies across the economy, as they increasingly rely on information technology. 
 Based on current trends, by 2011 data center energy consumption will nearly double again, requiring the equivalent of 25 power plants. The world's data centers, according to recent study from McKinsey & Company, could well surpass the airline industry as a greenhouse gas polluter by 2020. 
 Because the task ahead, analysts say, is not just building new data centers, but also overhauling the old ones, the managers who know how to cut energy consumption are at a premium. Most of the 6,600 data centers in America, analysts say, will be replaced or retrofitted with new equipment over the next several years. 
 They apparently have little choice. Analysts point to surveys that show 30 percent of American corporations are deferring new technology initiatives because of data center limitations.
 Mechanical and electrical engineers with experience in data center design, air-flow modeling and power systems management are in demand. ''If you have those skills, there are jobs waiting,'' says Phil Calabrese, a mechanical engineer and director of I.B.M.'s real estate engineering and construction unit.
 No company has longer experience in the care and feeding of data centers than I.B.M., and analysts say improving data center efficiency will involve applying some mainframe-style management disciplines.
 To exploit the opportunity, I.B.M., which built its business on mainframes and still sells them, last fall introduced a green data center services unit. The new group signed $300 million in contracts in the fourth quarter of last year, and the business is growing rapidly this year, the company says.
 Now that costs and energy consumption are priorities, the data center gurus are getting a hearing and new respect. 
 ''After 25 years, we're finally elevating mechanical engineering and adding a lot of electrical engineering, computer science and applied physics,'' said Mr. Patel of Hewlett-Packard. ''I wish I were 20 years younger.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Marcoux, vice president for green engineering at Cisco Systems, has worked on the design of about 100 data centers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
Paul Marcoux at the data center of Cisco Systems in Richardson, Tex., where he works to improve the communication between the computers and their coolers and power generators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GRAHAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Chandrakant Patel, a mechanical engineer at Hewlett-Packard Labs, said that data centers can be made 30 percent to 50 percent more efficient just by applying current technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) CHART: CREATING A NEED: As the number of servers in data centers rises, the demand increases for technicians who can manage the machines' energy needs and the heat they create. (Source: IDC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); INTERNET VIDEO (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); DIGITAL REALTY TRUST INC (53%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); DLR (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS493190 OTHER WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



428 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming Bill

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Another Failure on Climate Change,'' the June 11 editorial about the recent Senate debate on global warming legislation, was off the mark. 
 Questioning the scheduling of the debate because of high gas prices makes little sense. If gas prices don't go down, should we never address global warming? Of course not.
 Many Republicans used gas prices as a reason not to act, even though the long-term solution to gas prices lies in the new green technologies that will come to the fore once we do act. 
 In addition, our bill sets aside more than $2 trillion that can be used for consumer relief for energy costs. The economic modeling of our bill indicates a very small (2 cents per gallon) increase in gas prices per year over the 38-year life of the bill, which will be largely offset by new fuel economy requirements.
 The editorial also suggests that economic issues should have been the subject of more hearings on the bill. Before the global warming legislation hit the Senate floor, dozens of hearings were held, many focused on economic issues. 
 Finally, the editorial questioned why we included language ensuring that the global warming bill was deficit neutral.
 Fighting global warming without increasing the deficit is a key principle of this legislation. If we had not ensured that the bill did not add to the deficit, it could have been held up and not considered further, simply for parliamentary reasons. 
 Real progress was made last week in focusing the attention of the Senate on this important issue. The 54 senators now on record in support of action add to the momentum we will need to successfully enact landmark legislation. 
 The Republican leadership's decision to block consideration of the legislation is a serious obstacle to progress in this Congress. It is also true that landmark legislation is rarely passed overnight.
 We started voting on comprehensive global warming legislation five years ago. The last major clean air legislation took nearly 10 years to enact. We must act more quickly on this threat, and I believe we will.
 There is an important point in the editorial with which I agree: that presidential leadership will be critical to any solution to global warming, and the next president's commitment to action must be bold enough to address the problem. 
 Barbara Boxer Chairwoman, Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works Washington, June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



429 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: R.I.P. to the S.U.V.

 BODY:
It's hard to convince most Americans that there is a silver lining to $4-a-gallon gasoline. But General Motors provided a nugget of good news when it announced that it would shutter much of its production of pickups and sport utility vehicles -- and might even get rid of the Hummer, the relative of the Abrams tank unleashed on the streets in the cheap-gas days of the 1990s. 
 It's hardly the solution to global warming, or the country's dependence on imported oil, but it's a start.
 Playing the urban warrior in a Hummer was a fairly inexpensive thrill when a gallon of gas cost just over $1. But at $4 a gallon, driving a full-powered Hummer H3 or a big Ford F-150 would cost a typical driver, who drives 15,000 miles a year, almost $4,300 in gas. This is more than 10 percent of the median earnings of full-time workers and about $2,200 more than it would cost to drive the same distance in a Honda Civic. 
 By May, there were signs that the S.U.V.-era was over. For the first time, Detroit's Big Three automakers and their trucks were outsold in the United States by fuel-efficient cars made by Asian companies. And monthly sales of Ford's muscular F-series pickups fell by a third, bumping it five spots from its previous perch as America's best-selling vehicle, behind the Honda Civic, the Toyota Corolla, the Toyota Camry and the Honda Accord. It was the first time since December 1992 that a car, not a truck, claimed the top spot in monthly sales.
 The F-series pickup has been the nation's best-selling vehicle, on an annual basis, since 1981. But last month, the Ford Motor Company said that it would slash production of pickups and S.U.V.'s. Its full-size pickup plant in Cuautitlan, Mexico, is expected to be used to produce the Ford Fiesta, a subcompact car, instead.
 Expensive gasoline is not good news for most American families. In some rural areas where people must drive long distances, and a pickup is more of a necessity than a lifestyle choice, filling up the tank can eat up nearly 15 percent of a worker's take-home income. Pricey gasoline is acting as a brake on the economy and pushing up the price of food and other goods.
 Still, Americans' response to rising gasoline prices makes an excellent case for a gas tax. It proves that drivers will change their behavior in response to high fuel prices. And even if Detroit doesn't buy global warming, drivers can help persuade it to embrace fuel efficiency. They don't even have to know that the Honda Civic emits less than half the 13 tons of greenhouse gases spewed by the Ford F-150.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); PRICE INCREASES (60%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



430 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: $14 Billion In Deals Precede Trade Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Leading businesses in China and the United States, seeking to overcome mutual suspicion of foreign investment, announced $14 billion in new business deals on Monday, on the eve of high-level economic talks to ease tensions between the two countries.
 The deals involve $8 billion in Chinese investments and purchases of aircraft engines, telecommunications equipment, semiconductors and electronic components, said Chen Deming, minister of commerce in China. He added that $6 billion in other deals involved American purchases and investments in China. 
 Among the American companies signing deals at the United States Chamber of Commerce were Chrysler, Cisco Systems, Ford Motor, General Motors, I.B.M., Motorola, Sun Microsystems, Qualcomm and Texas Instruments.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who will be leading a delegation of Bush administration officials at the talks beginning on Tuesday in Annapolis, Md., said the sessions were not meant to resolve specific disputes but instead to discuss how to overcome economic downturns and deal with impending crises in energy and the environment.
 ''The tone will be one of constructive engagement,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview on Monday. ''We're going to be dealing with some of the most fundamental economic issues there are. I know some people would like to see quick fixes. But the most important issues don't avail themselves to quick fixes.''
 On Wednesday afternoon, the Chinese delegation is scheduled to meet with President Bush at the White House.
 The Annapolis talks are the fourth in a twice-a-year series that Mr. Paulson started when he left Goldman Sachs to become Treasury chief in 2006. The biggest issue at the time was American irritation over China's intervention in currency markets to purchase dollars and keep the value of the dollar high in relation to China's currency.
 Since mid-2005, China has allowed its currency, the yuan, to appreciate nearly 20 percent, easing at least some of the criticism in Congress. The Bush administration continues to accuse China of raising barriers to foreign investment, and China has increasingly complained that its attempts to invest in America often provoke an outcry.
 Mr. Paulson said that, although China had made only limited reforms in its economy and had taken limited steps to open its market to American goods and investment, the ''strategic economic dialogue,'' known as the S.E.D., produced more progress than otherwise would have been the case.
 ''I would argue that the reason we've made progress is that the S.E.D. is a mechanism for convincing China that certain things are in their interest,'' he said, citing American efforts to get China to open its economy to foreign investment and to lift government subsidies of export industries.
 In recent months, the Chinese government has pushed back with tough-talking demands that the United States do more to open its own economy to Chinese investments and to halt the depreciation of the dollar against European and other currencies, a trend many economists say has helped drive up oil and food prices.
 The Chinese delegation will be led by Wang Qishan, a vice premier and former mayor of Beijing, and also a graduate of Northwestern University, who took office as his country's chief economic negotiator earlier this year. He succeeded Wu Yi, one of the highest-ranking women in China and often described as a tough negotiator.
 Mr. Paulson said that though China had lately stepped up its criticism of the United States, ''I sure didn't find Wu Yi to be a shrinking violet.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about business deals announced on the eve of trade talks between the United States and China misstated the name of the school where the top Chinese delegate to the talks, Vice Premier Wang Qishan, was educated. It is Northwest University, in his native Shanxi Province -- not Northwestern University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CURRENCIES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (71%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



431 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Addresses Health Care And Its Costs

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress on Monday that health spending would ''rise relentlessly'' unless lawmakers overhauled the health care system, and he recommended an eclectic approach. 
 His remarks opened a daylong bipartisan symposium convened by the Senate Finance Committee to lay the groundwork for what leaders of both parties predict will be a major push for health care legislation next year.
 ''We will move quickly in 2009,'' said Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is chairman of the committee.
 Mr. Baucus suggested that ''some kind of federal health board'' could help Congress make technical policy decisions. ''How in the world am I supposed to know what the proper reimbursement rate should be for a certain procedure?'' he asked.
 Mr. Bernanke said Congress could establish an independent health care panel like the one used to recommend the closing of military bases. Congress, he said, could approve or reject the panel's recommendations, but not amend them. 
 Alternatively, Mr. Bernanke said, Congress could establish a commission like the Federal Reserve Board to set health policy. But, he said, such a panel would need ''very clear guidance from Congress,'' because health care accounts for ''an enormous part of our economy.'' 
 ''At some point,'' Mr. Bernanke said, ''health care spending as a share of gross domestic product will stop rising, but it is difficult to guess when that will be, and there is little sign of it yet.''
 At the end of the day, Democrats and Republicans appeared to agree on this much: All Americans should be insured, but they should have a choice of private health plans competing in the market alongside government programs.
 ''Democrats are right in saying that if you are going to fix the system, you have to cover everybody,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. ''Republicans are right in saying that you have to have markets, choices and private alternatives.''
 The impatience of some Republicans was expressed by Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee. 
 Health care is ''the No. 1 economic issue in our country,'' Mr. Grassley said, but ''Congress does not seem to have the political guts to do anything about it.''
 Craig R. Barrett, the chairman of Intel, expressed immense frustration at the inefficiency of the health care system, and he said employers were determined to do something about it.
 Almost every other industry ''has automated itself and now pays less for better quality,'' Mr. Barrett said. Employers will demand similar changes in health care, he added.
 Mr. Barrett said large employers were ''an agent of change'' in the health care system, and he warned Congress not to do anything that would undermine employer-sponsored health insurance.
 President Bush and members of both parties have proposed giving new tax breaks to individuals, including employees, so they can shop for health insurance on their own.
 Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, described that idea as ''a political nonstarter.'' It would, he said, threaten coverage for many of the 160 million people with employer-sponsored health insurance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, at a Senate Finance Committee symposium on Monday, warned that health care spending would ''rise relentlessly'' unless the system was overhauled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (51%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); MAX BAUCUS (73%); RON WYDEN (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



432 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Dealmaker Works For Pained Homeowners

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

 BODY:
Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, a studious, introverted former Army Ranger, is one of the Democratic Party's eminent voices on military affairs. But in neighborhoods hit hard by foreclosures, like the West End of Providence, it is Mr. Reed's lesser-known expertise on housing policy that is proving critical these days. 
 In the West End, with its 19th-century Victorians and clapboard triple-deckers, dozens of homes are up for auction and dozens more have been seized by banks. And Rhode Island, which has the fourth-highest unemployment rate in the country behind Michigan, California and Alaska, is among the top 10 states for subprime foreclosures. 
 Rhode Island's housing woes receive little notice compared with the more serious plight of states like Florida and Nevada. Similarly overlooked is Mr. Reed's central role in clinching an agreement on a foreclosure rescue bill last month -- the latest sign of his rising stature as a quiet dealmaker respected by colleagues in both parties. Mr. Reed's name even appears on some lists as a potential running mate for Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee. 
 It was Mr. Reed who accompanied Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, to meet with Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the committee's top Republican, when they brokered the final terms of the foreclosure rescue plan, which will widen access to federally insured mortgages without tapping taxpayer money. 
 The Senate could bring the bill to the floor as early as Tuesday, Democrats said. And if Congress, as its sponsors hope, sends the bill to President Bush before the July 4 recess, it will be Mr. Reed who emerges as one of the big winners on Capitol Hill, not only by securing aid for troubled borrowers back home but also because the legislation creates an affordable housing fund that he has been fighting for since he won a second term in 2002. 
 ''He is to be commended for his tenacity, for his never-give-up,'' said Mr. Shelby, who, like Mr. Reed, prefers to flex his legislative muscle behind the scenes. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a fellow member of the banking committee, said Mr. Reed pressed for years to create the affordable-housing fund, and finally found the perfect moment.
 ''Once again,'' Mr. Schumer said, ''Jack does it in his quiet, steadfast way, and it is extremely effective.'' 
 Mr. Reed, 58, is perhaps best known for his repeated efforts last year to set a deadline for the withdrawal of American military forces from Iraq. He is a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, but his diminutive height -- 5 feet 7 inches on a good day, he says -- makes his Special Forces background seem both improbable and all the more intimidating. 
 He has taken frequent trips to Iraq on which he goes out in the field with troops and surveys territory and operations that would most likely be off limits were it not for his close relationships with so many commanders. 
 Mr. Reed is a former paratrooper retired from active duty as a captain, did time as a professor at West Point and is a member of the academy's Board of Overseers. All in all, his military credentials have some Democrats speculating about him as a potential vice-presidential nominee or, more likely, as a secretary of defense in an Obama administration. 
 Such speculation is muted somewhat by the fact that the governor of Rhode Island is a Republican and would name Mr. Reed's successor to the Senate, an unappealing prospect for Democrats who are hoping to widen their razor-thin majority in this year's elections.
 Mr. Reed has had a passion for housing issues throughout his career. Beginning in the early 1980s when, as a young lawyer, he did pro bono work for Amos House, a Providence soup kitchen and social service agency, and continuing after his election to the Rhode Island Assembly, the House and finally the Senate. 
 ''There is sometimes a tendency to assume that everyone in this great country has adequate housing,'' Mr. Reed said in an interview. ''But when you go to certain places, certain neighborhoods, both urban and rural, you find out that's not the case, and I think we have to do much more.'' 
 In Mr. Reed's view, a permanent affordable-housing trust fund is one way to do more. And, as it turns out, the account was crucial to a deal on the foreclosure rescue plan. 
 While the House, led by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, approved a rescue package with broad bipartisan support in early May, it seemed for a while as if a similar deal would not be possible in the Senate. 
 Mr. Shelby had insisted that taxpayers not pay for the plan to avert foreclosures, arguing that the vast majority of homeowners who pay their bills should not have to bail out irresponsible borrowers, who might have bought a home that they could not afford, or greedy lenders who made risky loans after loosening underwriting standards. 
 With pressure mounting for the banking committee to act, Mr. Dodd and Mr. Reed slipped out of the raucous Senate chamber on a Thursday afternoon last month and walked over to Mr. Shelby's office. Outwardly, the hulking Mr. Shelby with his Alabama twang and the short Mr. Reed with his gentle New England accent could not seem more different. In many ways, though, they are kindred spirits in the clubby culture of the Senate in that both are appropriators, that special subset of lawmakers who serve on the Senate's most powerful committee, which allocates spending. Both prefer toiling quietly in the background and view the respect of colleagues as more valuable currency than publicity. 
 The breakthrough came when Mr. Shelby accepted Mr. Reed's affordable-housing account as the way to cover the homeowner rescue package. The fund will be financed with $500 million to $900 million a year in fees from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants. It will cover costs related to helping as many as a half-million borrowers avoid foreclosure by refinancing into federally insured mortgages. 
 After three years, the foreclosure-prevention fund will revert to Mr. Reed's original plan -- a housing trust fund for the poorest Americans, people who could not afford to buy a house in the first place. 
 Mr. Reed and many other lawmakers view addressing the housing crisis as a crucial step toward stabilizing the wider economy. 
 ''Average Americans, you know, they don't have any traction economically,'' Mr. Reed said. ''That was always in the back of their mind and sort of part of their financial plan, which is, If I really got into a problem, at least I have the equity in my home, I can use that. Now, they don't know if they do, and in many cases they don't.''
 Mr. Reed attributes some of his interest in housing issues to his own experience of growing up in Cranston, R.I., where his father was a school janitor and later a custodial supervisor for the school system. His family, including an older brother and younger sister, lived in a house with his aunt and his grandfather. Home was always a safe, stable place, he said. 
 In 2005, Mr. Reed married Julia Hart, a staff member in a Senate office that arranges foreign trips for lawmakers. The ceremony was at West Point. They have a 17-month-old daughter, Emily. As a state lawmaker in the 1980s, Mr. Reed led a commission that investigated a corruption scandal involving the Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation, a state agency that was supposed to make affordable loans to low-income Rhode Islanders. Mr. Reed at the time was able to hire a single staff member, Neil Campbell, who has worked for him ever since and is now his chief of staff in the Senate. 
 In 1989, as he prepared to run for Congress, Mr. Reed went to Washington to join a march against homelessness, an issue that continues to be a priority. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Jack Reed helped broker a plan to widen access to federally insured mortgages without tapping into taxpayer money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); ARMIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (72%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (55%)

PERSON: JACK REED (92%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



433 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: After One Wall Fell, Before New Ones Rose

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
AMERICA BETWEEN THE WARS 
 From 11/9 to 9/11: The Misunderstood Years Between the Fall of the Berlin Wall and the Start of the War on Terror 
 By Derek Chollet and James Goldgeier. 
 Illustrated. 412 pages. PublicAffairs. $27.95. 
 The title of Derek Chollet and James Goldgeier's new book, ''America Between the Wars: From 11/9 to 9/11,'' is a clever one, using the fall of the Berlin Wall on Nov. 9, 1989, and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as bookends for a period during which, the authors argue, ''the ideas and dynamics that characterize the current era took shape.'' It was during this decade, they say, that the consequences of the end of the cold war first unfurled, including ''the economic, political, and security challenges created by globalization; the rise of nonstate actors; the threat of weapons of mass destruction; the dangers that emanate from weak or failing states; the possibilities and limits of international institutions; and questions about whether and how to use America's preponderant power to meet global responsibilities.'' In addition, they contend, ''the debates that raged both between and within'' the Republican and Democratic Parties during the 1990s ''shaped their respective responses to 9/11 -- and still influence their foreign policy choices'' today. 
 Certainly the subject matter covered in this book has been addressed by many other scholars of foreign policy -- most notably, by Zbigniew Brzezinski in ''Second Chance: Three Presidents and the Crisis of American Superpower'' (2007) and Ronald Steel in ''Temptations of a Superpower'' (1995) -- and some readers might well question why the authors of ''America Between the Wars'' did not extend their analysis beyond 9/11 to look closely at the repercussions of the Bush administration's Iraq policy. 
 Still, Mr. Chollet (who served in the State Department during the Clinton administration and who is now a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security) and Mr. Goldgeier (a professor of political science and international affairs at George Washington University and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations) have written an astute and highly informed book, lucidly mapping the forces that have been reshaping the post-cold-war world as a clearly defined superpower rivalry between the United States and the Soviet Union has given way to a far more complex and chaotic set of circumstances involving terrorism, ethnic conflict and the integration of the global economy. 
 The authors provide an insightful assessment of the competing perspectives within the administration of George Herbert Walker Bush that have continued to inform Washington foreign policy debates through the Iraq war and the current election cycle: the competition between Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's Pentagon team, which argued for an aggressive foreign policy intended to prevent the emergence of global rivals, and Lawrence Eagleburger's State Department, which promoted a more optimistic vision of American power, based on leading through inspiration and example, instead of fear. The authors shrewdly analyze President Bill Clinton's grasp of both the upsides and downsides of globalization, which was bringing about the economic and technological integration of the world, even as it was accelerating centrifugal forces of fragmentation. And they explicate the oddly shifting dynamics between the right and left, Republicans and Democrats, which would see both neo-isolationist conservatives and the antiwar left warning about the consequences of American intervention abroad; and neo-conservatives and liberal hawks urging the United States to export its democratic values around the world. 
 As the authors note, the history of the 1990s has become increasingly contested territory, with Democrats like Hillary Rodham Clinton trying to summon nostalgia for that era when the American economy was surging and the country was regarded as the world's one great superpower, and with Republicans like Newt Gingrich bemoaning that period as a ''lost decade'' in which big opportunities were missed and new threats gathered power. The conclusions reached by Mr. Chollet and Mr. Goldgeier will no doubt cause consternation on both sides of the political aisle. They write that ''in the months leading up to September 2001 neither Bush nor his most senior advisers shared the Clinton team's sense of alarm about the threat from Al Qaeda,'' but that while Mr. Clinton ''understood the ominous danger Al Qaeda posed,'' he ''was not able to formulate an effective strategy in response,'' in part because of his political problems in dealing with the Monica Lewinsky scandal and the threat of impeachment. 
 The authors also spend a considerable amount of space dissecting what they see as continuities between the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations (despite President Bush's reported tropism toward an ''ABC'' or ''Anything But Clinton'' approach). They argue that President Clinton and his secretary of state, Madeleine Albright, shared ''common ground on many policy specifics'' with the neo-conservative organization Project for a New American Century, including ''NATO enlargement and intervention in the Balkans.'' On a broader level, Mr. Chollet and Mr. Goldgeier continue, both sides ''were pushing back against the impulse inside the political parties and throughout the country to turn away from the world's problems or to decline responsibility.'' And both were ''driven by the belief that because of its tremendous power and ideals,'' the United States -- what Ms. Albright called the ''indispensable nation'' -- had ''a unique role to play in the world.'' What the Clinton administration inelegantly termed ''democratic enlargement'' -- that is, the neo-Wilsonian idea of promoting democracy around the world -- would also become a central and much-contested pillar of George W. Bush's foreign policy. 
 Suggesting parallels with George W. Bush's handling of the war in Iraq, the authors observe that President Clinton was not averse to unilateral action. On reaching a settlement in Bosnia, they write, the approach ''had a gloss of allied involvement and buy-in'' but in the end rejected United Nations participation and kept allies at arm's length. They describe Kosovo as a ''war of choice,'' which ''stoked worries among allies and adversaries alike about the overwhelming nature of American capabilities'' and its global ambitions. And they write that with Kosovo, Mr. Clinton ''did not seek prior congressional authorization for the war because he wanted to protect the powers of the presidency and worried about Republican opposition'' and ''purposely avoided seeking U.N. Security Council authorization because of opposition from Russia and China.''
 Although the end of the cold war raised expectations that ''military power would be less important and, therefore, armed intervention less frequent,'' the authors write, the opposite occurred. ''From 1989 to 2001, the United States averaged one large-scale military intervention every 18 months, a rate greater than ever before and more than that of any other country at the time. Many now argue that the United States erred by not using greater force in Rwanda in 1994 or against Al Qaeda before 9/11. In this sense, Clinton's policies and the George W. Bush administration's ideas about using military power to defend values overlap more than many Americans have perceived, or partisans on both sides care to admit.''
 Unfortunately for the reader Mr. Chollet and Mr. Goldgeier adhere closely to their book title's agenda, declining to extend their narrative much beyond 9/11. Instead of delving into the Bush administration's handling of the war in Iraq (and the ways in which its decisions regarding that war were rooted in policy debates from the 1990s), they settle for a couple of brief asides that seem pretty much self-evident: that the policies pursued by the Bush administration, particularly the war in Iraq, have made its objective of sustaining American dominance in the world ''all the more difficult to achieve'' as America's influence and freedom to act have waned, and that ''the collapse of the conservative foreign policy establishment'' in the wake of the Iraq war ''will influence foreign policy debates within the Republican Party -- and between conservatives and liberals -- for years to come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The authors Derek Chollet, left, and James Goldgeier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA HALE) (pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (89%); WRITERS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); POLITICS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (93%); IRAQ (92%)

TITLE: America Between the Wars: From 11/9 to 9/11 (Book)>; America Between the Wars: From 11/9 to 9/11 (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



434 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Rice Visit Signals Support For Power Deal in Lebanon

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a surprise visit to Lebanon on Monday, the first by a senior American official since an agreement last month that handed decisive new powers to Hezbollah, the militant Shiite group that the United States considers a terrorist organization. 
 Ms. Rice met with government leaders from both the government majority and the Hezbollah-led opposition, signaling her support for a compromise that appears to have stabilized the country -- at least for the short term -- even as it delivered another setback to American allies in the region.
 ''Congratulations,'' Ms. Rice said as she shook hands with President Michel Suleiman, the former army chief who took office last month, filling a post that had been vacant for six months. ''We are all just very supportive of your presidency and your government.'' 
 Mr. Suleiman became president as part of a power-sharing agreement reached with the help of Arab mediators in Doha, Qatar, that many saw as a triumph for Hezbollah. The militant group gained veto power over cabinet decisions as part of the deal, something it had sought during 18 months of political deadlock. That breakthrough came after a week of bloody street battles in May, during which Hezbollah briefly seized control of the capital and humiliated its American-backed political rivals in the government majority. 
 Asked by reporters if the Doha agreement had been a defeat for the United States, Ms. Rice gave a diplomatic answer. Before the Doha agreement, American officials had urged the government majority not to make concessions to Hezbollah and its allies in the opposition.
 ''Obviously, in any compromise, there are compromises,'' she said. ''But this was an agreement that I think served the interests of the Lebanese people. And since it serves the interests of the Lebanese people, it serves the interests of the United States.'' 
 Rancorous negotiations continue over the next government, which will last until new elections next spring. Although the basic power-sharing formula was set by the Doha agreement, and the president and prime minister are in place, the two main political camps have been unable to agree on who should get the key ministries: Defense, Interior, Finance and Foreign. Even the so-called service ministries have prompted dissent because they are seen as important in winning votes in the 2009 elections, a much greater prize.
 But the political truce achieved in Doha has significantly eased tensions in Lebanon, bringing back floods of foreign tourists and expatriate Lebanese. Beirut's lavishly rebuilt downtown area, which was virtually empty during 18 months of opposition sit-ins, is once again thriving, and long-closed restaurants and nightclubs have been gradually reopening. 
 Ms. Rice's visit was her first here since the 2006 war between Israel and Hezbollah, when many Lebanese were deeply angered by Washington's role in allowing Israel's intensive 34-day bombing campaign.
 Ms. Rice's highly visible role made her an especially unpopular figure here, and signs were later erected in Beirut depicting her as a vampire drinking the blood of Lebanese children. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and President Michel Suleiman of Lebanon in Beirut on Monday. Mr. Suleiman took office last month as part of a power-sharing agreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAHMOUD TAWIL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); VETO (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); MICHEL SULEIMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); LEBANON (95%); QATAR (93%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



435 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: Is McCain Like Bush? It Depends on the Issue

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Democrats like to say that electing Senator John McCain would usher in the third term of George W. Bush, and they do not mean it as a compliment. The Republicans counter that calling the senator ''McBush'' is political spin and that Mr. McCain is his own man.
 A look at Mr. McCain's 25-year record in the House and Senate, his 2008 campaign positions and his major speeches over the last three months indicates that on big-ticket issues -- the economy, support for continuing the Iraq war, health care -- his stances are indeed similar to Mr. Bush's brand of conservatism. Mr. McCain's positions are nearly identical to the president's on abortion and the types of judges he says he would appoint to the courts.
 On the environment, American diplomacy and nuclear proliferation, Mr. McCain has strikingly different views from Mr. Bush, and while he shares the president's goals in Iraq, he was at times an outspoken critic of the way the war was managed. 
 The disparities between the two are murkier on other issues. On immigration, Mr. McCain started out with Mr. Bush -- at odds with the Republican mainstream -- by favoring a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants, then backed off and emphasized the border-security-first approach favored by a majority of his party. 
 When it comes to dealing with terrorism suspects, Mr. McCain has supported imposing tighter rules than favored by the administration on the use of harsh interrogation techniques, but has consistently been with the president on limiting the legal rights of Guantanamo detainees. In one indicator that his view of executive power is moving closer to that of Mr. Bush, his campaign has recently signaled that he believes it was constitutional for the president to authorize wiretaps without warrants to monitor Americans' international phone calls and e-mail. 
 Mr. McCain has reversed himself on some issues -- most notably, embracing the Bush tax cuts now after deriding them initially as fiscally risky and excessively skewed to the wealthy -- and continues to adjust his positions on others. On Monday, he said he continued to oppose opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, leaving him at odds with the White House and most of his party, but said he favored giving states more flexibility to decide whether to explore for oil off their coasts.
 On balance, the McCain campaign has sought to emphasize the differences between Mr. McCain and the unpopular Mr. Bush rather than the similarities.
 ''In the last 10 years, he's been an independent voice for what he thinks is in his country's best interest,'' said Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain's closest advisers. ''Sometimes it's brought him into conflict with members of his party and with the president. The Democrats know that.''
 Yet while it would be hard to categorize him as a doctrinaire Republican or conservative, Mr. McCain appears to have ceded some of his carefully cultivated reputation as a maverick.
 In a CBS News poll two weeks ago, 43 percent of registered voters said they believed he would continue Mr. Bush's policies, and 21 percent said he would be more conservative in his policies than Mr. Bush. Twenty-eight percent said he would be less conservative than Mr. Bush.
 Presidencies are about more than policies, of course, and Mr. McCain would bring a different style, background and world view to the White House should he be elected in November. 
 Although he once held very different views, Mr. McCain's biggest similarity to Mr. Bush now is on the economy. Not only does the senator now support making permanent the large Bush tax cuts he once opposed -- the $1.35 trillion tax reduction of 2001 and the $320 billion tax cut of 2003 -- but he has proposed four major new tax cuts of his own.
 Democrats say that those four proposed cuts -- a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent, immediate tax breaks for corporate investment, a repeal of the alternative minimum tax and doubling the value of exemptions for dependents to $7,000 from $3,500 -- are more regressive than Mr. Bush's tax cuts because they favor the rich more disproportionately than the president's reductions did. Mr. McCain's advisers said his plan would help stimulate job creation by reducing taxes on small businesses, especially those that pay taxes at the personal income tax rate, and would be part of a fiscal plan that would also emphasize reining in the growth of government spending far more than Mr. Bush did.
 On health care, Mr. McCain has a market-oriented model similar to the one that Mr. Bush proposed to little effect in 2007. Like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain would shift the emphasis from insurance provided by employers to insurance bought by individuals, and would offer a tax benefit for families to do so. 
 ''In general, they're much more similar than different,'' said Drew Altman, the president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group. ''In terms of their goals, they're more focused on making the market more efficient than in expanding coverage.''
 Mr. McCain's proposal, however, is more progressive in that it offers a refundable credit of $5,000 to families to buy their own insurance, whether or not they pay taxes -- in effect, cash. Although experts have questioned whether the $5,000 tax credit would cover the cost of private insurance, they generally say that Mr. Bush's plan, which offered a $15,000 tax deduction for families buying their own insurance, was more valuable to higher-income people.
 On the Iraq war, Mr. McCain has been one of the president's biggest defenders of its stated rationale: saving the world from Saddam Hussein. Yet he was also an early advocate of increasing troop levels at a time when Mr. Bush was resistant, and was withering, from 2004 on, about Donald H. Rumsfeld, then defense secretary, and what Mr. McCain called Mr. Rumsfeld's ''whack a mole'' strategy of moving American troops from one violence-plagued part of Iraq to another. 
 Like Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain has steadfastly refused to set dates for withdrawals of troops and envisions a long-term American presence in the country. But last month, in the general election battleground state of Ohio, Mr. McCain did a semantic dance and said he expected that most American troops would be home from Iraq by 2013. 
 On abortion, Mr. McCain has long been opposed, and is in fact more explicit than the president in his opposition to Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision that established a constitutional right to abortion. Although Mr. Bush has spoken about changing American ''hearts and minds'' to build a ''culture of life,'' Mr. McCain has said directly, in South Carolina in 2007, that Roe v. Wade ''should be overturned.''
 On judges, Mr. McCain has strongly embraced the judicial philosophy of Mr. Bush and vowed to appoint conservative judges in the mold of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.
 On gay rights, Mr. McCain voted against a proposed constitutional amendment backed by Mr. Bush banning same-sex marriage, saying that it should be up to the states. Then in 2006, he made it clear how he thought his home state, Arizona, should decide: Mr. McCain appeared in a television commercial in support of a state amendment, which ultimately failed, to ban same-sex marriages.
 Perhaps Mr. McCain's biggest departure from the president is on climate change. Mr. McCain has called for mandatory limits on greenhouse gas emissions, unlike Mr. Bush, who says such limits would be bad for the economy. Mr. McCain also supports a ''cap and trade'' system in which power plants and other polluters could meet limits on heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide by either reducing emissions on their own or by buying credits from more efficient producers. 
 Mr. McCain, who has a mixed record on the environment in the Senate -- he has missed votes on toughening fuel economy standards and has opposed tax breaks meant to encourage alternative energy -- has nonetheless tried to highlight what he considers his stark environmental divide with Mr. Bush.
 ''There is a longstanding, significant, deep, strong difference on this issue between myself and the administration,'' Mr. McCain said last month.
 On diplomacy, Mr. McCain has regularly distanced himself from the go-it-alone unilateralism of the Bush administration.
 ''We cannot build an enduring peace based on freedom by ourselves, and we do not want to,'' Mr. McCain said in a major foreign policy address in Los Angeles in late March. ''We have to strengthen our global alliances as the core of a new compact.''
 In the same vein, Mr. McCain has significantly broken with Mr. Bush on nuclear security policy. Unlike the president, he supports a legally binding accord between the United States and Russia on limiting nuclear weapons, the elimination of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe, a strengthening of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, increased financing for the International Atomic Energy Agency and nuclear talks with China.
 On Iran and North Korea, the two nations whose nuclear programs will present the next president with a tough set of options, Mr. McCain has allied himself with the Bush administration. He would refuse to engage in unconditional diplomacy with Iran and would continue to maintain contact with North Korea, primarily through multilateral talks. He has insisted, however, that the United States be able to verify effectively any agreement in which North Korea promises to abandon its nuclear weapons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain of Arizona answered questions at a news conference on Monday at his campaign headquarters in Arlington, Va. He has reversed himself on some policy issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); IMMIGRATION (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); OIL EXPLORATION (64%); WIRETAPPING (62%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%); ABORTION (54%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); ARCTIC (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



436 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: In New Defense Policy, France Turns to U.S. and Europe

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
In its first new national defense policy in 14 years, France has decided that its security lies within Europe and NATO, establishing a significant shift from the country's longstanding notions of moral and military self-sufficiency.
 More than four decades ago, Charles de Gaulle, angry with American and British domination of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, said France's military integration into the alliance had been ''stripped of justification.''
 But now that the Soviet Union is gone and the European Union is more fully established, President Nicolas Sarkozy has decided that France is best served by participating fully with Washington and NATO, in part because the vast majority of members of the European Union are also members of the alliance. 
 The new military and security strategy, which Mr. Sarkozy will present in public on Tuesday after months of internal debate, calls for a smaller, more mobile French Army, with savings spent on better intelligence and modern equipment.
 Building a credible European defense is a French priority, the strategy says. But French plans were damaged by the Irish rejection of a new set of rules for the 27-nation European Union that would have made it easier for members to cooperate on defense. In fact, publication of the French white paper was delayed until after the Irish referendum on the so-called Lisbon Treaty, to avoid providing the Irish with another potential reason to vote no.
 The new defense doctrine seeks to prepare France and Europe for a post-Soviet world in which conventional military threats are downgraded compared with a multitude of complex, global risks, from epidemics to terrorism and cyberwarfare.
 An estimated 54,000 military jobs will be cut over the next six to seven years, out of a current total of some 330,000. The cuts are politically delicate, given local and political interests, but a reduction in personnel is the only way to provide more financial room for acquisitions and training intended to create a more modern army whose threats are more likely to come from terrorism, cyberassault or missile attacks than from a traditional invasion.
 A copy of the plan was provided in a briefing by senior French officials who would not allow their names to be used before Mr. Sarkozy's speech. One of the officials said that if France and Europe were capable of acting on their own, the United States would take them more seriously. 
 The officials also emphasized that France's operational needs had changed since the last white paper, in 1994, and that France would concentrate less on bilateral military actions in Africa, for instance, than on joint operations with the European Union, NATO or regional organizations like the African Union.
 Mr. Sarkozy created political waves here when he first proposed that France reintegrate into the military wing of NATO, so long as there was ''parallel progress'' in developing a European defense and security policy that could carry out European Union missions outside the rubric of the American-led Atlantic alliance.
 It was a rejection not only of Gaullism, but also of the generally anti-interventionist and anti-Bush policies of the opposition Socialist Party.
 ''Today there's no longer a raison d'etre'' to remain outside NATO, one official said. The alliance has changed considerably with new members in the last decade, the official said, and with new peacekeeping missions in places like Afghanistan and Kosovo. ''We see the trans-Atlantic relationship as a key to European security and French security,'' he said, emphasizing that the European Union and NATO were now seen as ''complementary,'' not as rivals.
 Still, officials made it clear that France would preserve its independent nuclear deterrent outside of any alliance structure, and that France would not allow its troops to serve permanently under any foreign officer, even in peacetime. 
 France's plan foresees raising the budget for military acquisitions, for example, by more than 16 percent, without immediately raising spending on defense. It also envisions spending twice as much on space defense, with the intention of creating a space-based early warning system against missile attacks. A decision to build another expensive aircraft carrier will be postponed, and spending on intelligence, which is to be reorganized under a single chief, is also expected to double.
 The plan also sets a new requirement of at least 30,000 French soldiers able to be deployed in combat within six months, part of the larger French goal of helping to make a European defense capability both credible and functional. Europe's goal, far from being realized, is to have 60,000 soldiers able to be deployed within a year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles de Gaulle pulled France from NATO's military command. President Nicolas Sarkozy wants closer ties with NATO. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE, 1966) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (91%); ARMIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); TERRORISM (68%); REFERENDUMS (65%); CYBERTERRORISM (63%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



437 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2299 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 TALIBAN POSE NEW THREAT
 Near Southern Afghan City
 Hundreds of Taliban fighters have swarmed into a strategically important district just outside Kandahar, the biggest city in southern Afghanistan, apparently in a push for control just days after 400 Taliban members escaped in a spectacular breakout from the Kandahar prison, officials said. It was unclear whether any of the fighters were among the prison escapees. Afghan military reinforcements arrived in Kandahar and have deployed in Kandahar Province, said a NATO spokesman. PAGE A6 
 PROGRESS SEEN IN ISRAEL'S TALKS
 Israel appeared to be making diplomatic progress on three fronts: a possible prisoner exchange with Hezbollah; a second round of indirect talks with Syrian representatives in Turkey; and a possible truce with Hamas in Gaza. Some Israelis, meanwhile, have suggested that the current flurry of diplomatic activity is intended to distract attention from the political and legal troubles of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who the police say is suspected of receiving illicit funds. PAGE A11 
 LAWYERS' ROLE IN INTERROGATIONS
 Senior Pentagon lawyers played a more active role than previously known in developing the aggressive interrogation techniques approved for use in 2002 at the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, according to officials familiar with a Senate investigation. Documents show that the lawyers gathered information about techniques used to train American pilots to withstand captivity. PAGE A8 
 ROLE FOR CAMBODIA VICTIMS IN TRIAL
 An office worker and a security guard are two of hundreds of Cambodians who have applied to the court to be recognized officially as victims of the Khmer Rouge and to bring parallel civil cases against them. In a controversial experiment by the unusual hybrid tribunal administered jointly by the United Nations and the Cambodian government, the victims will have a chance to seek mostly symbolic reparations: a monument, perhaps, or a museum or trauma center. PAGE A6 
 RICE'S SURPRISE VISIT TO LEBANON
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a surprise visit to Lebanon, the first by a senior American official since an agreement last month that handed decisive new powers to Hezbollah. Ms. Rice met with government leaders from both the government majority and the Hezbollah-led opposition, signaling her support for a compromise that appears to have stabilized the country even as it delivered another setback to American allies in the region. PAGE A11 
 Imprisoned Woman Found in Italy A7 
 Arrest of Militia Leader in Brazil A11 
 Fast Food Charity in India A9 
 NATIONAL
 A QUIET SENATOR
 Moves to the Fore
 Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island is an introverted former Army Ranger who has quietly become one of the Democratic Party's leading voices on military affairs and an expert on housing policy. Now Mr. Reed, best known for his for his repeated efforts last year to set a deadline for the withdrawal of American military forces from Iraq, is being chattered about as a potential running mate for Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee. PAGE A13
 GAY COUPLES MARRY IN CALIFORNIA
 At 5:01 p.m., same-sex couples across California began the state's court-approved experiment with same-sex marriage, and many more are expected in the coming weeks. All 58 counties will begin issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples on Tuesday. But some places in the state have called off all weddings performed by county clerks. PAGE A15
 A NEW LIST OF PLANETS
 The Geneva Observatory just unveiled a list of 45 new planets, some of them slightly bigger than Earth and others twice as massive as Neptune. The planets orbit Sun-like stars in our galaxy, and orbit their stars in 50 days or less, which is a closer orbit than Mercury and puts them within frying distance of any living creatures. PAGE A24
 CRITICISM FOR PROSTITUTION MAVEN
 A Web Site called TheEroticReview.com has quietly come to dominate the country's prostitution scene, helping it migrate from the street corner to the Internet. The site's founder, David Elms, is in jail awaiting trial in a case unrelated to the site, and many in the industry are not at all upset. Some of Mr. Elms's critics have said that he abused his influence over the industry, while others say he would demand sex or money to promote certain women or agencies. PAGE A12
 STILL ON THE FLOODPLAIN
 In 1993, the tiny town of Chelsea, Iowa (population 297) was inundated when floodwaters ravaged communities across the Midwest. The City Council voted to move much of the town, with help from federal aid -- but only few homeowners took the buyouts. As Chelsea sits under six feet of water once again, the town's residents are second-guessing everything but also staunchly defending its right to exist exactly where it wants to. PAGE A12
 COURT TO HEAR MUSLIMS' CHALLENGE
 The Supreme Court agreed to hear a case which would determine whether government officials can be sued for damages by the Muslim men who were rounded up in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The case is an appeal by the Bush administration on behalf of then-attorney general John D. Ashcroft, and Robert S. Mueller III, the director of F.B.I. PAGE A16
 BUSINESS
 DESPITE IRISH VOTE,
 The Euro Remains Strong
 When France and the Netherlands rejected a proposed European Constitution three years ago, it rattled the euro and left many questioning whether the currency could survive without a more unified Europe. But in the first day of trading since Ireland voted down a plan to further integrate into the European Union, the euro actually rose against the dollar. That has helped foster the belief that the European monetary union can prosper even without an accompanying political union. PAGE C1
 HONDA DEBUTS CLEAN-BURNING CAR
 The first FCX Clarity -- the world's first hydrogen-powered fuel cell vehicle intended for mass production -- rolled off the assembly line at Honda, the company that makes it. The company is only planning a small initial run of the clean-burning vehicles, but said it planned more when hydrogen filling stations become more common. ''Basically, we can mass-produce these now,'' a company executive said. ''We are waiting for the infrastructure to catch up.'' PAGE C1
 FINALLY, IN THE SPOTLIGHT
 Mechanical engineers have long toiled in the shadows of Silicon Valley, but no longer. The demand for skilled workers in data centers has helped their salaries climb more than 20 percent in the past two years -- bumping them into the six-figure range, and there is more demand than people to fill it. ''We're building the railroads of the future, and we can't keep up,'' an executive at a company that owns data center sites said. PAGE C1
 F.C.C. CHIEF SUPPORTS MERGER
 Kevin J. Martin, the head of the Federal Communications Commission, said he would circulate a plan this week to approve the merger between Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio, the nation's two satellite radio companies. Mr. Martin said the deal met the requirement of being ''in the public interest,'' but the deal needs the backing of at least two other commissioners for approval. PAGE C6 
 'SOUL TRAIN' KEEPS PLUGGING ALONG
 ''Soul Train,'' the 1970s television staple famous for Afros, tight bellbottoms and the inspired moves of the dancers in the ''Soul Train'' line, was never actually canceled, and continues to live on in reruns. Now a production company, MadVision Entertainment, has purchased the show from its creator (and longtime host) Don Cornelius, and says it has big plans for the music program and its archives. They also might update the show for modern viewers. PAGE C3 
 Anheuser-Busch Sizes up a Suitor C1 
 McClatchy Announces Layoffs C10 
 NEW YORK REPORT
 RESIDENTS IMAGINE LIFE
 Without Community Centers
 The community center at Parkside Houses, a public housing complex in the Bronx, could be one of the casualties in the New York Public Housing Authority's decision to shutter hundreds of its community centers and programs due to a budget crunch. And though many of the tenants and their supporters sympathize with the agency's budget woes, they wonder if it has done all it could to tighten its finances before cutting popular and important programs. PAGE B1 
 SCIENCE TIMES
 A REVOLUTION IN RICE
 That Could Help Feed the Hungry
 Norman T. Uphoff, a professor of government and international agriculture at Cornell, has started a revolution in the way rice is cultivated. His counterintuitive approach focuses not on the amount of rice plants, but the quality of the individual plants. He says the less-is-more ethic could help solve the global food crisis. PAGE F1
 THE ARIA OF ALGORINO
 It's a bizarre sort of convergence: Al Gore's ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' which was a book and then an award-winning documentary, is now set to become an opera. (No, really.) La Scalain Milan, has commissioned the Italian composer Giorgio Battistelli to write it. John Tierney, for his part, has tried to imagine what an exchange between Mr. Gore and Mr. Battistelli over suggestions to the script might sound like. PAGE F1 
 A CLINGY MENACE MOVES WEST
 The quagga mussel is a tiny bivalve about the size of a fingernail with a penchant for clinging to hard surfaces. It also has a formidable sex drive, which means that once it is introduced into an ecosystem, it can wreak a lot of environmental and economic havoc (the mussels have already carpeted much of the Great Lakes). The mussel is making its way west and has been found in the Colorado River, which augurs serious trouble for hydroelectric and water supply plants along the river. ''It's going to be devastating,'' an ecologist said. PAGE F3
 THE ASTRONAUT'S NEW CLOTHES
 NASA said the extravehicular activity suit -- rocket scientist-speak for spacesuit -- will get a major overhaul. Astronauts who have spacewalked have said they have spent a lot of energy ''fighting the suit,'' and so the new suits will be lighter than the 350-pound behemoths they currently wear and will be designed both for weightless conditions in space and walking on the moon. PAGE F4
 ARTS
 THE FRENCH CONSIDER
 The Audacity of Hope
 Rising young black authors, poets and rappers in France say a new black consciousness is emerging there, lately hastened by, of all things, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president of the United States. An article in Le Monde a few days ago described how Barack Obama is ''stirring up high hopes'' in the country. ''Obama tells us everything is possible,'' says Youssoupha, a rapper in France, pictured above. PAGE E1 
 BETWEEN THE WALLS
 Derek Chollet and James Goldgeier's new book, ''America Between the Wars: From 11/9 to 9/11,'' uses the fall of the Berlin Wall on Nov. 9, 1989, and the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as bookends for a period during which, they argue, ''the ideas and dynamics that characterize the current era took shape.'' And while the subject matter has been addressed by many scholars of foreign policy, Michiko Kakutani writes, the authors have written a highly informed book that lucidly maps the forces reshaping the post-cold-war world. PAGE E1 
 Alastair Macaulay: Sampler of Ballet Across America E5 
 SPORTS
 THE LAKERS SURVIVE.
 Now Comes the Hard Part.
 The Los Angeles Lakers staved off elimination by defeating the Boston Celtics in Game 5 of the N.B.A. Finals, but now they have to do what no team has ever done: come back from a 3-1 series deficit to win a title. The quick turnaround before Game 6 -- only one off-day to adjust to make a 3,000-mile trip and a three-hour time difference -- is likely to make that challenge even harder. PAGE D2
 A BREAKTHROUGH, FINALLY
 Charlie Zink has staked his baseball career on his ability to throw a knuckleball, a rare and maddening skill. He'd gotten so good that he became arrogant, and developed a casual work ethic that eventually led to tendonitis in his right shoulder -- effectively costing him the next two seasons. Now the 28-year-old pitcher with the unorthodox grip is poised to make his major league debut with the Boston Red Sox. PAGE D4 
 OBITUARIES
 WALTER NETSCH, 88
 An architect who sculptured sleek, functional structures and placed them in windswept ridges, he designed the ethereal chapel at the United States Air Force Academy, which in 2004 was designated a National Historic Landmark. PAGE B7 
 EDITORIAL
 THE GENOCIDE CONTINUES
 Despite the dispatch of United Nations peacekeepers to Darfur and the issuing of international arrest warrants for leaders of the genocide, the killing goes on. And it will continue until the Security Council shows the will to stop it. PAGE A20
 BETTER SYSTEM FOR YOUNG OFFENDERS
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg has set a welcome national example by opening a juvenile court that cuts down on unnecessary detentions and improves the treatment of children who end up in police custody. PAGE A20
 R.I.P. TO THE S.U.V.
 It's hard to convince most Americans that there is a silver lining to $4-a-gallon gasoline. But General Motors provided a nugget of good news when it announced that it would shutter much of its production of pickups and sport utility vehicles. It's hardly the solution to global warming, but it's a start. PAGE A20
 OP-ED
 DAVID BROOKS
 In a period that has brought us instant messaging, wireless distractions and attention deficit disorder, Tiger Woods has become the exemplar of mental discipline. PAGE A21
 BOB HERBERT
 Two young men embody the true meaning of friendship at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. PAGE A21
 LEADER OF THE PACK
 How can Barack Obama win over those elusive blue-collar voters in November? He can ditch the Nicorette and start smoking again. An op-ed by Tony Horwitz. PAGE A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRISONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ARMIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HAMAS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); GENOCIDE (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (51%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); EHUD OLMERT (55%); JACK REED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (94%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); LEBANON (92%); CUBA (90%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



438 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Gore Endorses Obama as a Solver of Problems

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Michael Falcone and Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Former Vice President Al Gore made his debut appearance in the presidential campaign here Monday evening, offering a vigorous endorsement of Senator Barack Obama and urging Democrats to keep in mind the consequences of not taking the general election with grave seriousness.
 ''Looking back over the last eight years, I can tell you that we have already learned one important fact since the year 2000,'' Mr. Gore said. ''Take it from me, elections matter. If you think the next appointments to the Supreme Court are important, you know that elections matter.'' 
 Mr. Gore and Mr. Obama strode onto the stage arm in arm to thundering applause from a crowd of nearly 20,000 people at a downtown arena. As Mr. Gore ticked through a long list of challenges facing the nation, he hailed Mr. Obama as ''clearly the candidate best able to solve these problems and bring change to America.''
 Mr. Gore had purposefully stayed on the sidelines during the long Democratic primary fight. He announced his endorsement of Mr. Obama a few hours earlier on Monday in a message to supporters on the former vice president's vast e-mail list. Their appearance here touched off a flurry of curiosity among Democrats, with many quietly asking if Mr. Gore would be on Mr. Obama's list of prospective running mates.
 ''When I am president,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I will be counting on Al Gore to help me lead the fight for a clean energy future here in the United States and around the world.'' 
 Since Mr. Obama opened his presidential bid in January 2007, the two have talked frequently, including in a meeting last fall at Mr. Gore's home in Nashville. Mr. Obama said Monday that the former vice president had been helpful throughout the primaries, lending his ear and his thoughts, but always taking care to stay impartial.
 The rally here at the Joe Louis Arena was a rare political appearance for Mr. Gore, 60, who implored Democrats to unify behind Mr. Obama and disregard any suggestions from Senator John McCain of Arizona that Mr. Obama lacked the experience to serve in the Oval Office. 
 Mr. Obama, 46, smiled as Mr. Gore read a quote that President John F. Kennedy once read to a rival: ''To exclude from positions of trust and command all those below the age of 44 would have kept Jefferson from writing the Declaration of Independence, Washington from commanding the Continental Army, Madison from fathering the Constitution and Christopher Columbus from even discovering America.''
 The decision to stage the appearance in Michigan underscored the importance of the state for Mr. Obama. It was also in Michigan that former Senator John Edwards unveiled his endorsement of Mr. Obama in a surprise setting. The state, a general election battleground, was one of the few places that Mr. Obama did not campaign in before the state's primary because of a dispute over delegates.
 Mr. Gore, who seldom talks about the disputed 2000 election in which he won the popular vote but lost the presidency in the Electoral College, urged Democrats to remember that as they made their election decisions. He praised Mr. McCain as a valued American public servant, but said it was time for a change in Washington.
 ''For America to lead the world through the dangers we're facing, to seize the opportunities before us, we've got to have new leadership,'' Mr. Gore said. ''Not only a new president, but new policies. Not only a new head of state, but a new vision for America's future.''
 At a fund-raising reception before the rally, Mr. Gore stood a few paces behind Mr. Obama, a reversal of roles for the man who served for eight years in the White House and dreamed of becoming president. Mr. Gore applauded repeatedly as Mr. Obama gave his remarks, heavily weighted with points about the environment.
 Every few minutes, Mr. Obama referred to Mr. Gore's prescient decisions and judgments, referring to Iraq as ''a war that Al Gore understood should never have been authorized and never should have been waged.'' 
 On climate change and energy, Mr. Obama said: ''Al Gore has done more to educate the world about this problem than anyone. But I have to say, as extraordinary as Al Gore's work has been, there's nothing like $4 a gallon gas to get your attention.''
 Earlier on Monday, Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, called for lifting the federal moratorium on offshore oil drilling for states that want to permit it. He said the impact of high fuel prices was hitting Americans not only at the pump but also in the form of rising food costs and threats of inflation, so he favored giving states incentives to allow exploration as well.
 ''We must embark on a national mission to eliminate our dependence on foreign oil and reduce greenhouse gases through the development of alternate energy sources,'' Mr. McCain said at his campaign headquarters, adding that he still supported a summer gasoline tax holiday.
 In the Senate, Mr. McCain has a mixed record on the issue of oil exploration. In 2001 and 2006, he voted in favor of offshore oil drilling in Florida, but in 2003 he voted against it in Florida and other states. Mr. McCain has consistently opposed drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
 Daniel J. Weiss, a global warming expert at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group, said Mr. McCain's call to lift the moratorium was a ''partial capitulation'' to the oil industry in that states that did not want to drill offshore would not have to.
 ''McCain is handing America's coasts on a platter to the big oil companies the day before he goes to talk to them in Houston,'' Mr. Weiss said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With Senator Barack Obama at his side, former Vice President Al Gore formally endorsed the senator on Monday in Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

PERSON: AL GORE (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



439 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Leader Of the Pack

BYLINE: By TONY HORWITZ. 
Tony Horwitz is the author, most recently, of ''A Voyage Long and Strange: Rediscovering the New World.''

DATELINE: Vineyard Haven, Mass. 

 BODY:
 AS the Democratic primaries revealed, Barack Obama is having a hard time winning the support of blue-collar voters.
 So here's a piece of strategic advice for the candidate: Lose the Nicorette. Light up instead.
 Consider these statistics, culled from studies of smoking patterns. Americans who make between $24,000 and $36,000 a year smoke at twice the rate of those earning $90,000 or more. The same applies to Americans with a high-school education rather than a college degree. Rural Americans smoke more than city-dwellers. As for race, there's a close correlation between states with high rates of white smokers and those where Mr. Obama polled worst in the primaries. Leading the pack of smoking states are Kentucky and West Virginia; industrial states like Ohio aren't far behind.
 Bottom line: small-towners in the Rust Belt and Appalachia don't cling to guns and religion so much as they do cigarettes. 
 By rejoining them, Mr. Obama would also touch voters in several heavy-smoking swing states: Michigan, Missouri and Nevada. Added bonus -- Virginia and North Carolina, two leading tobacco-producing states, are both in play this election.
 In the interests of full disclosure, I should mention that I'm an Obama supporter and fellow Nicorette chewer. Thanks to the gum, I no longer crave cigarettes. But I do miss the companionship of a shared smoke. Indulging in a vice stigmatized by most Americans is an easy way to bond with people with whom you otherwise have nothing in common.
 This aspect of smoking would be of help to Mr. Obama, too. I suspect the discomfort some Americans feel about him has less to do with race than style. He can seem aloof, over-groomed and fussy about eating the right foods and getting enough exercise. Bumming a smoke on the rope line, soiling the sleeve of his pristine suit with cigarette ash and interrupting the flow of his soaring oratory with a smoker's hack would go a long way toward dispelling his effete image. 
 It would also help his wife, Michelle, who made him quit smoking at the start of the campaign. She's going through a rough patch right now as Republicans try to paint her as un-American. If her husband backslides and starts smoking again, Mrs. Obama could assume a more familiar role: beleaguered and betrayed spouse who can't reform her wayward, weak-willed husband. 
 The Obama campaign could also spin his smoking as a belt-tightening measure in tough economic times. Nicorette gum costs about 50 cents a piece, roughly twice the price of a cigarette, depending what state you're in. Smoking can even be cast as a patriotic act, akin to a flag pin. Tobacco goes deeper in our history than any other crop. Native Americans harvested it for centuries before Europeans arrived, and cultivation of tobacco ensured the survival and prosperity of Jamestown, the first permanent English colony on this continent. Without the weed, Jamestown might well have failed, leaving this land to be settled by wicked Spanish or perfidious French.
 Of course, Mr. Obama can't smoke just any cigarette. Like everything in a campaign, his choice requires stagecraft. Clearly, a Dunhill or (quelle horreur!) a Gaulois would be disastrous. American Spirit has the right ring but the wrong demographic: young hipsters. Nor should the candidate bum Newports or Kools, brands traditionally favored by African-Americans. 
 To capture voters in coal country and smokestack towns, he needs an old-fashioned coffin nail. Unfiltered Camels come to mind, except Joe Camel has been tarred as a come-on to children. Tareyton smokers would rather fight than switch -- a slogan better suited to bruised Clinton supporters. And Marlboro, reported to be Mr. Obama's brand before he quit, evokes the wide open spaces and low-electoral-vote country of Montana or Wyoming.
 So my choice would be Winston, which was the longtime sponsor of Nascar. Or, perhaps, Mr. Obama could take up smokeless tobacco. I'm sure the campaign can poll this kind of thing.
 As for voters who might object, the highest rates of nonsmokers live in solidly red states like Utah, or in safely Democratic ones like Massachusetts, where I sit at this moment working my Nicorette. I can't kick the gum, but, Mr. Obama, yes you can. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK TODD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (89%); SMOKING CESSATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOBACCO FARMING (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



440 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: British Premier Says Europe Will Tighten Financial Sanctions on Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Reporting was contributed by Alan Cowell from Paris, Nazila Fathi from Tehran, Stephen Castle from Luxembourg and Eamon Quinn from Belfast, Northern Ireland.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced Monday that Britain and the European Union would freeze the overseas assets of Iran's largest commercial bank, joining the United States in intensifying financial pressure against Iran over its refusal to address international concern over its nuclear activities.
 Mr. Brown, appearing with President Bush after discussions here, also pledged to send additional troops to Afghanistan, and indicated that he would not bend to political pressure at home to withdraw British forces in southern Iraq more quickly. 
 Both leaders said that they remained open to resolving the dispute with Iran diplomatically, but only after it suspended uranium enrichment, which Mr. Bush and others have said is aimed at developing nuclear weapons. Iran's leaders insist the nuclear program is for peaceful purposes.
 Iran gave a chilly reception to a proposal from Western powers that was delivered Saturday. The proposal offered economic and diplomatic incentives to Iran to suspend its enrichment and to begin talks to resolve questions about its nuclear work. While Iran has not formally responded, President Bush said Saturday that it had rejected the offer. 
 Mr. Brown announced that Europe would move to restrict European transactions of the Iranian bank, Bank Melli, immediately. Last week, the Iranian news media reported that Iran had recently moved $75 billion in assets from Western financial institutions to banks in Iran and Asia. 
 Mr. Brown also said that if Iran continued to defy existing United Nations resolutions calling for it to halt uranium enrichment, European leaders would begin considering sanctions on investments in Iran's oil and natural gas industries. That would be a far more significant penalty, though one that causes unease because of already soaring global energy prices.
 ''We await the Iranian response and we'll do everything possible to maintain the dialogue,'' Mr. Brown said at a news conference with Mr. Bush at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. ''But we are also clear that if Iran continues to ignore united resolutions, to ignore our offers of partnership, we have no choice but to intensify sanctions.''
 Iran did not immediately respond to Mr. Brown's announcement, but economists in Tehran said that sanctions could put further strain on Iran, especially at a time when Iran is highly dependent on imports, from Europe in particular, forcing it to look elsewhere for trade.
 ''The sanctions will put on further pressure, but Iran can use its windfall oil revenue and pay further costs to import through smaller banks,'' said Saeed Leylaz, an Iranian economist. ''Iran will also shift its trade from Europe to Asia.'' 
 New sanctions would be the latest move to gradually increase punitive measures against Iran, while offering an option to ease them if its government retreated from its enrichment program.
 The United States, which severed diplomatic relations and most economic ties with Iran after the Islamic Revolution in 1979, has long sought to interfere with Iran's foreign financial transactions. The Bush administration imposed largely symbolic sanctions against Bank Melli, which handles most of Iran's overseas trade, and other banks last fall.
 ''If we freeze the assets of Bank Melli, they start to run out of places they can do business in Europe,'' the senior British official said. ''That starts to apply real pressure.''
 Mr. Brown's strong support for Mr. Bush on Iran, Afghanistan and Iraq came as Mr. Bush was ending a weeklong visit to Europe that featured confrontations over a variety of issues, but produced what administration officials described as progress in several areas.
 Mr. Brown's announcement of sending additional troops to Afghanistan was intended to bolster the NATO mission there, at a time when the alliance has been accused of responding slowly to re-emerging threats from the Taliban and other militants and tying its own hands with individual limits on certain operations.
 Frustrated American defense officials have urged the NATO allies to contribute more forces and let those already there operate more aggressively.
 Britain has 7,800 troops in Afghanistan. That is second only to the United States, which has 34,000, some of those within the NATO-led operation. The NATO force has more than 50,000 troops in all.
 The British defense minister, Desmond Browne, later confirmed to Parliament that an additional 230 troops, including engineers, trainers and other specialists in reconnaissance, would be sent to Afghanistan. That would bring the British total by next spring to more than 8,000, most of them in southern Afghanistan.
 An official traveling with Mr. Bush said that while the increase might seem small, the new troops would not operate with the constraints that other nations have imposed on their forces serving there.
 The announcement came as the bodies of five British soldiers killed in two attacks in Afghanistan last week returned home. A total of 102 British soldiers have died in Afghanistan since 2001.
 In the final stop on his European tour, President Bush met Monday in Belfast with leaders of Northern Ireland, implying that peacemaking efforts there would be a model for other deep-seated conflicts around the world, including Iraq. 
 Flanked by First Minister Peter Robinson, the new leader of the main Protestant party, the Democratic Unionists, and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein, the Catholic party allied to the Irish Republican Army, the president told journalists about his confidence that the Northern Ireland peace agreement, after decades of conflict, would endure. 
 ''Obviously more work has to be done,'' he said of the power-sharing agreement reached in March of last year, which took effect two months later But, he added, ''progress made to date would have been unimaginable 10 years ago.'' 
 Mr. Bush has already visited Slovenia, Germany, Italy, the Vatican and France, a trip he described as a farewell tour a week ago. But as the week went on, Mr. Bush and his aides appeared annoyed with tributes that tended to highlight the end of his presidency.
 ''You kind of wrote my political obituary,'' Mr. Bush told President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, after a glowingly nostalgic toast.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about President Bush's weeklong visit to Europe misstated the response to the foreign policy issues on his agenda. While there had been some expectation of disagreements, administration officials said they did indeed make progress in several areas; it was not a visit that ''featured confrontations over a variety of issues.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain greeted President Bush on Monday at his official residence before their meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFTERIS PITARAKIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) EUROPE (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



441 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Popularity Survives Darkening Mood of City, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and DALIA SUSSMAN; Marjorie Connelly and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg remains as popular as ever, despite an overwhelming consensus that his administration should have done more to ensure the safety of construction sites and an overall sense that the city is headed down the wrong path, according to the latest New York Times poll.
 Some 67 percent of city residents approve of the job Mr. Bloomberg is doing, while 28 percent disapprove, according to the poll. (About 5 percent had no opinion.) That matches Mr. Bloomberg's highest mark ever in a Times poll, which was in October 2005, shortly before he defeated Fernando Ferrer to win re-election to a second term.
 Despite their favorable views of the mayor, two-thirds of residents called the city's term limit law a good idea, although it will force Mr. Bloomberg from office in December 2009. Mr. Bloomberg, who has recently acknowledged that he is uncertain about what to do when his term is over, has been in discussions with his aides about how to remain in public life, and he recently commissioned his own poll asking residents whether they would be open to loosening the limits. 
 The Times poll showed that even though residents like Mr. Bloomberg's leadership, many are hard pressed to point to any particular accomplishments of his administration, a troubling signal as people inside and outside City Hall begin to assess the mayor's legacy.
 Whereas his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, for example, was widely credited with reducing crime, when residents were asked to name the best thing Mr. Bloomberg had done as mayor, there was no single achievement or area identified by a broad swath of respondents. When asked to name the ''worst thing'' Mr. Bloomberg had done, the most frequent response referred to taxes, at 7 percent, followed by congestion pricing, his handling of finances and education, all at 4 percent. 
 But an area of deep concern among residents is whether the city is adequately balancing the need for safety in the construction industry with the economic benefits of development, especially in light of two recent crane accidents. Four-fifths of respondents say that the mayor should have done more to make the construction industry safer.
 One of those interviewed for the poll, Bill Walters, a tour guide from Manhattan, said: ''I'm somewhere in the middle on Bloomberg. I like the fact that he seems to be open and accessible, a little more human than some of the mayors we've had in the past. He's generally done well for the city, except for his penchant to support what I consider wanton speculation and development of the city at the expense of the historic neighborhoods.''
 The poll of 444 New York City adults was conducted by telephone from June 6 to June 11. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus five percentage points.
 The poll mirrors recent national surveys in gauging the public's swelling anxieties over a worsening economy. By 56 to 37 percent, city residents say that the city has gotten on the wrong track; three years ago, the numbers were nearly reversed, with 63 percent saying it was headed in the right direction. Four in 10 residents now feel that they are worse off, financially, compared with four years ago, while just one in four said so in September 2006.
 Still, those numbers are more upbeat than the results of comparable national surveys. 
 The poll also offers a snapshot of a city on the cusp of a major political realignment, thanks to term limits. Not only is Mr. Bloomberg due to step down at the end of 2009, but so, too, are two-thirds of the City Council, the city's two other citywide elected offices of comptroller and public advocate, and four of the five borough presidents.
 And if the poll is any indication, the mayor's race next year is still wide open.
 When asked about three contenders widely believed to be running -- Representative Anthony D. Weiner; Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker; and William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller -- an overwhelming number of residents who were polled did not have an opinion about any of them.
 And, even though 52 percent of those polled said there was ''no excuse'' for the police shooting of Sean Bell in 2006, they still approve of the job Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly is doing, by 56 to 26 percent. 
 That rating has not changed much since an August 2004 poll, which found that 59 percent of city residents liked the job Mr. Kelly was doing. Even among black residents, who were far more likely to say there was ''no excuse'' for the shooting, Mr. Kelly's numbers are solid: 50 percent approve of his performance, while 40 percent disapprove.
 In a follow-up interview after being polled, LaVern Wilkerson, a resident of Cambria Heights in Queens who is a retired school crossing guard, said: ''As far as the city is concerned, there are bad things happening. The cost of transportation, for example. And the police could be better. The Sean Bell case should have been handled better. I think actually Bloomberg handled that fairly well and made good statements, like a lot of it wasn't called for.''
 That kind of dichotomy -- people feeling queasy or unhappy about one issue, yet not holding Mr. Bloomberg directly responsible -- was a common theme underlying many of the survey responses.
 The mayor is so well liked that according to the poll, 67 percent of city residents believe that Mr. Bloomberg, who made billions as a businessman, cares about ordinary New Yorkers -- a figure that rises to 75 percent among those making over $50,000 a year.
 It is, no doubt, a remarkable change from the early days of the administration, when Mr. Bloomberg, a political novice and lifelong Democrat who switched to the Republican Party in order to run, was wildly unpopular.
 Indeed, in a New York Times poll from June 2003, only 24 percent of those polled approved of Mr. Bloomberg's performance, citing job losses, tax increases and service cuts. It was the lowest approval rating for a mayor since The Times began taking polls on mayoral performance in 1978.
 But slowly, and steadily, Mr. Bloomberg's marks climbed. And along the way, New Yorkers felt more strongly about Mr. Bloomberg's strengths and flaws, with many people applauding his efforts to revamp public education and fight crime.
 Yet fewer people are readily able to associate Mr. Bloomberg, who is now an independent, with any single issue. 
 ''I like Bloomberg personally, but I may not always agree with his administration,'' said one respondent, Kwame Okoampa-Ahoofe, a 45-year-old Bronx resident who teaches writing at Nassau County Community College.
 ''There are quality-of-life issues, like shutting down hospitals rather than looking at how effective they were in serving the people,'' he said. ''There have been increases in tolls. Bloomberg is personable. He knows what he's doing most of the time. So I somewhat approve and somewhat disapprove. It's hard to get boxed into yes or no.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: MAYOR BLOOMBERG'S PERFORMANCE: Two-thirds of New York City residents who were polled said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg cares about their needs and problems -- up from just 36 percent in 2003
 THE POLICE SHOOTING OF SEAN BELL: There were sharp racial differences in how New Yorkers viewed the 2006 police shooting of Sean Bell. (Based on telephone interviews conducted June 6-11 with 444 adults in New York City. Those with no opinion are not shown.) (pg. B6) Graphs showing how Mayor Bloomberg's job performance ranks to the people of New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERM LIMITS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008



442 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Jobs for Teenagers, and a Job for the Government

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Out of Sight'' (column, June 10):
 Bob Herbert got it right: unemployment among our nation's young people is a critical challenge facing our country. Summer jobs teach responsibility, offer exposure to future careers and provide a few much-needed extra dollars for low-income youths and their families. 
 Teenagers with early work experiences are more likely to make the transition into the work force successfully and earn more over their lifetime. For decades, the federal government provided financing for summer jobs for young people, giving hundreds of thousands of teenagers across the country a crucial first work experience. That practice was abandoned a few years ago, and the national teenage summer employment rate is now the lowest it has been since World War II.
 Chicago, like other cities and counties, has done the best it can to fill this gap. But we are able to reach only a fraction of the young people who want summer jobs.
 The United States Conference of Mayors annual meeting from June 20 to 24 will pass a resolution urging the federal government to do its part and take action on this issue. 
 But providing summer jobs for young people is not just government's responsibility. That's why for many years we've challenged leaders in our city's private sector to provide new jobs, and many of them have, even during these tough economic times.
 A renewed commitment from Washington is an essential part of a solution to better support America's youth, keep them safe and strengthen our country's future. Our nation's private sector also needs to step up. Richard M. Daley
 Mayor
 Chicago, June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); MAYORS (67%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



443 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Rose 1.4% in May

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Businesses struggled with higher production costs last month, primarily as a result of record-high oil prices, meaning Americans might face more expensive items on store shelves soon. 
 The Producer Price Index advanced 1.4 percent in May, its fastest pace in six months and another sign that inflation was worsening, the government said Tuesday.
 The core inflation index, however, which strips out volatile energy and food prices, rose at a tepid pace of 0.2 percent, in line with economists' expectations. 
 Many economists prefer to use the core index, which does not measure the full effect of inflation on Americans but does offer a guide to how long inflation may linger. 
 ''The general picture sketched by this report continues to be one dominated by a more rapid increase in costs at the producer level'' than at the consumer level, Joshua Shapiro, an economist at MFR, wrote in a research note. ''Given the weak nature of domestic demand now and going forward, it is likely that businesses will have increasing difficulty raising prices to consumers.''
 In a separate report on Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that home construction fell in May to its lowest point in 17 years. It came as little surprise that the housing industry was hurting, but the decline in groundbreakings suggested that the market was unlikely to make a recovery anytime soon. 
 Groundbreakings, or housing starts, dipped 3.3 percent in May, to an annual rate of 975,000, the lowest level since March 1991. Declines occurred for single-family homes and apartment complexes alike.
 Permits for groundbreakings, an earlier phase of the construction process, also declined for the month, slipping 1.3 percent, to a 969,000 annual rate. Permits for new condominiums, however, rose slightly.
 The housing market has struggled through rising foreclosures and tighter lending standards, which has kept many Americans, even those with good credit, from obtaining mortgages. The result has been a buildup in home inventories that has depressed prices and discouraged building.
 On Tuesday, investors focused on producer prices after Federal Reserve officials suggested that the central bank had shifted its attention to fighting inflation. Many investors now expect the Fed to raise interest rates by the end of the year. 
 The Producer Price Index has risen significantly over the last 12 months; from May 2007 to May 2008, producer prices grew 7.2 percent, and core prices were up 3 percent.
 The price of wholesale gasoline alone rose 9.3 percent last month, the sharpest increase of any product. Residential gasoline prices rose 3.8 percent. Over all, the wholesale price of consumer goods increased by 1.8 percent. Prices for passenger cars, women's clothing and computers dipped slightly, according to the Labor Department.
 Other reports on Tuesday suggested further problems for businesses. Industrial production dropped 0.2 percent in May, the second month of declines, according to the Fed. Capacity utilization, a measure of efficiency in American industries, fell slightly, to 79.4 percent, from 79.6 percent in April.
 ''Export growth looks set to remain solid at least over the near term,'' Mr. Shapiro wrote. But, he added, ''an increasingly constrained consumer, deepening woes for the housing sector, and a desire to pare inventories will all weigh on manufacturing output.''
 Separately, the Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit widened to $176.4 billion in the first three months of this year. The deficit, as measured by the current-account balance, was $167.2 billion in the final quarter of 2007. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Labor Department)Chart details line graph for producer prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); FORECLOSURE (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



444 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Office Developers See a Few Bright Spots

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
Last month, a developer began resurrecting the ''skeleton of Parsippany'' -- a steel frame for an office building that was started in the late 1980s but never finished after a recession hit. And some real estate professionals instantly perceived this as a possible harbinger of resurgence for the office market in New Jersey.
 Coming in the teeth of terrible market reports for the first quarter of 2008, it was at least a display of boldness on the part of the developer, the Commercial Realty Group of Morris Plains. 
 ''All this gloom and doom is more talk than what is actually borne out,'' said Andrew Billing, Commercial's general manager. ''We're putting a new Class A building on this site, at last, and the truth is that new Class A buildings with high visibility like this one has'' -- the site is on Route 46, near Interstates 80 and 280 -- ''are still attracting tenants.'' 
 The $50 million transformation of the infamous skeleton, which frustrated real estate brokers have long decried as making a bad first impression on those driving into Morris County, will create a 76,000-square-foot energy-efficient office building with a parking garage, cafeteria and fitness center. 
 A second building, with 109,000 square feet, will be built on the same site, which is behind a Bennigan's restaurant on Route 46, once the first building is 60 percent rented, Mr. Billing said.
 Michael M. Luther, the mayor of Parsippany, was jubilant at the groundbreaking, saying that ''a grim symbol of failure'' would now become ''a monument to future success.''
 Still, not everybody sees this as a watershed moment. A number of market specialists believe that the New Jersey market will remain flat awhile longer, and that putting up a new building on speculation in Parsippany is, well, just nervy.
 ''I wish them luck,'' said Steven J. Pozycki, chief executive of SJP Properties, which has built corporate centers in Parsippany and Hoboken, and is now constructing a commercial tower near Times Square in Manhattan. ''But I've been in the Morris County market since the early 1980s, and I think this market today is about as bad as it has been since that steel went up.''
 During the first three months of this year, leases were signed for only 1.46 million square feet of office space in New Jersey, a five-year low in quarterly leasing activity, according to a report from CB Richard Ellis, the commercial real estate services firm. 
 The Hudson County waterfront had the most leasing activity for the quarter -- 440,000 square feet -- but that included a couple of deals in progress at the close of 2007. A total of 110,000 square feet was leased in the Meadowlands, and a similar amount was taken along the interchange of Interstates 287 and 78, the firm said.
 In fact, more space was actually added to the market for the quarter than was taken off, for the first time since 2004, CB Richard Ellis reported. (This was primarily because two large blocks of space were listed: the former Bell Labs property, a 1.67-million-square-foot complex in Holmdel, now owned by Alcatel-Lucent; and the 749,000-square-foot former offices of Pfizer's health care division, now a part of Johnson & Johnson.)
 The office vacancy rate was up more than half a point from the first quarter of 2007 -- to 18.7 percent by CB Richard Ellis's reckoning -- after a slow decline in the rate during 2007. 
 There are scattered bright spots, however: In the elite Short Hills-Chatham submarket, the vacancy rate is down to about 6 percent, according to CB Richard Ellis, Cushman & Wakefield and other analysts. 
 At the Hudson County waterfront, always a strong submarket because of its proximity to Manhattan, the vacancy rate is less than 8 percent.
 Around northern New Jersey, market specialists said, there are projects drawing what seems to be intensified attention. In Hoboken, for example, where SJP Properties has completed plans for a third structure at its Waterfront Corporate Center and is seeking a major tenant, large companies from Manhattan have made visits in the last few weeks, Mr. Pozycki said.
 Also, companies from Manhattan have recently signed leases for smaller spaces at the Harmon Meadows complex in Secaucus, owned by Hartz Mountain Industries, with several more ''circling,'' said Emanuel Stern, president of Hartz Mountain. 
 His company has made a campaign out of recruiting Manhattan companies to take cheaper space in New Jersey-- posting highway billboards promoting a cost difference of up to 70 percent, and installing a calculator on the company's Web site that enables a real estate executive to instantly figure the savings possible with a move across the river.
 And the market for highly secure back-office space, where Manhattan companies can relocate their data centers apart from their corporate offices, appears to have picked up again after a lull, several commercial brokers said. Digital Realty and Equinox, two publicly traded companies that develop and market data-center space for smaller users, are expanding their presence in the Meadowlands and Piscataway, respectively, said Jonathan Meisel of Jones Lang LaSalle.
 The state's new Urban Transit Hub tax-credit program, which took effect in January for sites near mass-transit stations, is already stimulating the market, real estate specialists say, even though it applies in only nine cities.
 Mr. Pozycki said the tax credit program is a crucial reason why SJP decided to move forward with its third corporate center building in Hoboken, which had sat on the drawing boards for nearly four years. (During that time, SJP shifted its focus to the hot Manhattan office market, and has begun construction of 11 Times Square, a glass-and-steel tower at Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street.)
 ''This is a great stimulus package,'' the builder said, of the tax credit, which developers can pass along to tenants whose companies employ 250 workers or more. Taxpayers are able to take 10 percent of the total credit amount each year over a 10-year period against their corporate business tax, insurance premiums tax or gross income tax liability. 
 ''If you're a Manhattan company, paying $80, $90, $100 a square foot or more,'' Mr. Pozycki said, ''you could come to our Hoboken center and be able to have a new 'green' building, with floor-to-ceiling glass, in a riverfront location that is appealing to young people, for $40 per square foot -- and after the credit, down to $15 per square foot.'' 
 Harmon Meadows is not eligible for the credit program, but Mr. Stern said Manhattan tenants are looking westward anyway: ''I've had more legitimate New York City office-requirement phone calls in the last three to six months than I've had in the last five years,'' he said last week. ''As profits are getting squeezed, and companies start to look at their expenses, New Jersey looks really, really, really good.'' 
 Mr. Stern said that the state did not get its ''fair share'' during the last five years, when the average rent in Midtown has tripled, but ''that will inevitably change'' because the disparity in rates has become so compelling. Others analysts tentatively concurred. 
 ''We were all completely wrong the last time, when rents in Midtown climbed to $125 per square foot last year,'' said Jeffrey Schotz of GVA Williams in New Jersey, ''and we thought it meant a trend of relocation to New Jersey. Instead, with the rising uncertainty about the overall economy, we began seeing companies become somewhat paralyzed in their decision making -- and typically, remaining in place.''
 At some point, though, ''the pressure of rising operating costs is going to force a decision,'' Mr. Schotz said, ''and New Jersey will still be ready and waiting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The developer of Waterfront Corporate Center, in Hoboken, N.J., has completed plans for a third building at the site.
 A 76,000-square-foot structure is under construction in Parsippany, N.J., where for years a building's steel skeleton was a landmark.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%)

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



445 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2024 words

HEADLINE: Biscuit Bakers' Treasured Mill Moves North

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 

 BODY:
 FOR generations of Southern bakers, the secret to weightless biscuits has been one simple ingredient passed from grandmother to mother to child: White Lily all-purpose flour. 
 Biscuit dives and high-end Southern restaurants like Watershed in Atlanta and Blackberry Farm outside Knoxville use it. Blue-ribbon winners at state fair baking contests depend on it. On food lovers' Web sites, transplanted Southerners share tips on where to find it, and some of them returning from trips back home have been known to attract attention when airport security officers detect a suspicious white dust on their luggage.
 White Lily is distinctly Southern: it has been milled here in downtown Knoxville since 1883 and its white bags (extra tall because the flour weighs less per cup than other brands) are distributed almost solely in Southern supermarkets, although specialty stores like Williams-Sonoma and Dean & DeLuca have carried it at premium prices. 
 But at the end of June, the mill, with its shiny wood floors, turquoise and red grinders and jiggling armoire-size sifters, will shut its doors. The J. M. Smucker Company, which bought the brand a year ago, has already begun producing White Lily at two plants in the Midwest, causing ripples of anxiety that Southern biscuits will never be the same. 
 Maribeth Badertscher, a spokeswoman for the company, said the new White Lily was the result of thorough product testing and promised that customers ''won't know the difference.'' But in a blind test for The New York Times, two bakers could immediately tell the old from the new. 
 No test was necessary for Fred W. Sauceman, author of a series of books called ''The Place Setting: Timeless Tastes of the Mountain South, From Bright Hope to Frog Level,'' who said White Lily should stay in Knoxville. ''It's kind of like the use of the word terroir when you're talking about wine,'' he said. ''It means something to have been made in the exact same spot for 125 years, and it's unconscionable not to respect that.'' 
 He continued, ''People felt so strongly about this flour that in the South it was reserved for Sunday dinner. It was called the Sunday flour.'' A White Lily cookbook, now out of print, capitalized on that sentiment with the title ''Sunday Best Baking: Over a Century of Secrets from the White Lily Kitchen.''
 LaDonna Hilton, whose baking has won more than 200 ribbons at the Appalachian Fair in Gray, Tenn., said she has tried other flours and simply discarded the results. ''You wouldn't think you'd be able to tell the difference in the taste,'' she said, ''but you can.''
 For Cathy Riddle, another Appalachian Fair champion who uses White Lily for everything from green tomato bread to ''sad'' dumplings (the kind with a chewy center), the selling point is consistent good results. 
 The passion for White Lily is more than simple nostalgia.
 ''All you have to do is take a little bit in your hand and take some all-purpose flour in the other hand and just look at it,'' said Shirley O. Corriher, the Atlanta-based author of ''CookWise,'' about the science of cooking, and a forthcoming companion volume called ''BakeWise.'' ''There's an incredible difference. It's much, much finer, much whiter and much silkier. You're going to get a finer textured cake.''
 The difference in White Lily flour begins with the kind of wheat it is made from, soft red winter wheat, a low-protein, low-gluten variety. ''Protein is the enemy of light, high-rising, delicate baking!'' the package says. 
 Most other all-purpose flour is made from a blend of wheat varieties that differs from region to region and generally has a much higher protein content. ''It's a little bit good for everything, but not that good for anything,'' said R. Carl Hoseney, a retired grain science professor at Kansas State University who is now a cereal consultant. 
 Soft wheat is, in fact, the key to understanding why the South is better known for cakes, biscuits and pie crusts than for yeast breads, which require the strength of high-protein flour. Soft red winter wheat was once grown primarily in the Carolinas, Georgia and Tennessee and, in the days before national food distribution networks, it was the only wheat widely available in the South. Nowadays, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois are among the largest producers.
 It may also explain why many Northerners' attempts to replicate Southern delicacies fall flat. Low-protein flour absorbs less liquid, so a recipe designed for White Lily won't work with other flours. Cake flour or another low-protein flour like Martha White are the closest substitutes. 
 Carolyn Durst, 62, a sweepstakes winner in the pie competition at the Kentucky State Fair, said, ''I give pie crust demonstrations to my friends, and I tell them, No. 1, you've got to have White Lily flour.''
 Ms. Badertscher said that the new White Lily is also made solely from soft red winter wheat. But there are many other variables, like the grind of the flour. The Knoxville plant has long claimed that White Lily is ground finer and sifted more times than any other flour on the market. All that work costs a bit more -- at an Atlanta supermarket this month, five-pound bags of White Lily went for $2.99, more than Gold Medal, which sold for $2.79, or the store brand, $1.82, but far less than specialty and organic brands.
 Then there is the matter of what part of the grain is used. Underneath the husk of a wheat kernel, a layer of bran encloses the germ and a white substance called endosperm. White Lily is a patent flour, meaning it uses only the heart of the endosperm, the purest part. With wheat prices more than double what they were last spring, some fans fear that selectivity may be compromised. 
 ''At the turn of the century, the question was, how pure and white can you get it?'' said Fran Churchill, a former White Lily plant operations manager. ''For economy, millers have pushed closer and closer to the bran,'' she said. ''Everyone in the industry is getting as much flour out of that kernel right now as they can.''
 Unlike most all-purpose flours, White Lily is bleached with chlorine, a process that not only whitens the flour but weakens the proteins. Chlorination alters the starch particles to make batters more viscous, and thus less likely to fall. It loosens the strict balance of starch, liquid, fat and sugar that baking requires to allow for higher proportions of sugar -- thus, sweeter cakes. 
 The chlorine makes White Lily more like cake flour than other all-purpose flours. But there again is another subtle difference, Ms. Corriher said. While White Lily can be used in cakes, it is not bleached as much as cake flour, which gives White Lily a better, less acidic taste, Ms. Corriher said. Pastry flour is also made from soft wheat, but it is not chlorinated.
 Milling experts said that in theory, it should be possible to replicate White Lily. ''If the source of the wheat is the same, the mill itself won't be that hard to duplicate,'' Mr. Hoseney said. Ms. Corriher, on the other hand, was more skeptical that a process perfected over more than a century of milling and subjected to Knoxville's intensive quality control could be easily replicated.
 A blind test by two bakers, who were sent bags of the old and new product marked only A and B, underscored Ms. Corriher's concern. 
 Zoellyn Smith, who worked in both quality control and research and development at the Knoxville plant, accurately identified the new product before she began to bake. Sample A, the new product, had ''a grayish color'' and made a ''dense and chewy'' cake, while Sample B, the old, made for silky, rather than stiff, dough and a ''light and airy'' cake. 
 ''When I looked at just the flour I thought that Sample B was milled in Knoxville,'' she said. ''After performing the bakes there was no doubt.''
 But it did not take a specialist in food technology and plant sciences to guess right. Ms. Hilton, the amateur baker, said, ''There wasn't a big difference, but I could tell the difference.'' Even her family knew which batch was made with flour milled in the Midwest. ''The biscuits came out just a little more dense, and the texture wasn't quite as smooth.'' 
 Told of the results, Ms. Badertscher said, ''White Lily flour continues to be made from the same quality ingredients and processes as when it was produced in Tennessee.''
 For many Southerners, though, comparison is a moot point. At a Knoxville grocery store, Peggy Melhorn, 85, was spied with a bag of White Lily flour in her cart and asked if it was better than other flours. 
 She shrugged. ''It's been my favorite for a long time, so I don't know if there's other good flours out there or not.''
 Recipe: Touch of Grace Biscuits Adapted from ''CookWise'' by Shirley O. Corriher (Morrow) Time: 40 minutes
 Adapted from ''CookWise'' by Shirley O. Corriher (Morrow)
 Time: 40 minutes
 Nonstick cooking spray
 2 cups self-rising flour, preferably a low-protein Southern flour like White Lily
 1/4 cup sugar
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 4 tablespoons vegetable shortening
 2/3 cup heavy cream
 1 cup buttermilk, or as needed
 1 cup bleached all-purpose flour, preferably low-protein flour like White Lily, or as needed
 2 tablespoons butter, melted.
 1. Heat oven to 425 degrees, and arrange a shelf slightly below center of oven. Spray a 9-inch cake pan with nonstick cooking spray. In a large mixing bowl, stir together the self-rising flour, sugar and salt. Work shortening in with your fingers until there are no large lumps. Gently stir in the cream, then enough buttermilk so that dough resembles wet cottage cheese. (If you are not using low-protein Southern flour, this may take considerably more than 1 cup buttermilk.)
 2. Spread one cup all-purpose flour (not self-rising) across a plate or pie pan. Using a medium (about 2 inches, No. 30) ice cream scoop or spoon, place three scoops of dough well apart in flour. Sprinkle flour over each. Flour your hands. Turn the dough in flour to coat, shaping a ball and shaking off excess flour as you work. Place each ball in prepared pan; biscuits should be touching one another. Continue shaping until all dough is used.
 3. Bake until lightly browned, 20 to 25 minutes. Brushed with melted butter. Invert onto a plate, then back onto another. With a knife or spatula, cut quickly between biscuits to make them easy to remove. Serve immediately.
 Yield: 12 to 14 biscuits.
 Recipe: Touch of Grace Biscuits Adapted from ''CookWise'' by Shirley O. Corriher (Morrow) Time: 40 minutes
 Adapted from ''CookWise'' by Shirley O. Corriher (Morrow)
 Time: 40 minutes
 Nonstick cooking spray
 2 cups self-rising flour, preferably a low-protein Southern flour like White Lily
 1/4 cup sugar
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 4 tablespoons vegetable shortening
 2/3 cup heavy cream
 1 cup buttermilk, or as needed
 1 cup bleached all-purpose flour, preferably low-protein flour like White Lily, or as needed
 2 tablespoons butter, melted.
 1. Heat oven to 425 degrees, and arrange a shelf slightly below center of oven. Spray a 9-inch cake pan with nonstick cooking spray. In a large mixing bowl, stir together the self-rising flour, sugar and salt. Work shortening in with your fingers until there are no large lumps. Gently stir in the cream, then enough buttermilk so that dough resembles wet cottage cheese. (If you are not using low-protein Southern flour, this may take considerably more than 1 cup buttermilk.)
 2. Spread one cup all-purpose flour (not self-rising) across a plate or pie pan. Using a medium (about 2 inches, No. 30) ice cream scoop or spoon, place three scoops of dough well apart in flour. Sprinkle flour over each. Flour your hands. Turn the dough in flour to coat, shaping a ball and shaking off excess flour as you work. Place each ball in prepared pan; biscuits should be touching one another. Continue shaping until all dough is used.
 3. Bake until lightly browned, 20 to 25 minutes. Brushed with melted butter. Invert onto a plate, then back onto another. With a knife or spatula, cut quickly between biscuits to make them easy to remove. Serve immediately.
 Yield: 12 to 14 biscuits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WINTER WHEAT: A staple for Southern bakers since 1883 will now be milled in the Midwest.
TEXTURE AND TASTE: The White Lily plant in Knoxville, Tenn., left, is closing this month. LaDonna Hilton, above, a prize-winning biscuit maker from Fall Branch, Tenn., uses only White Lily.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE AND RIGHT, ERICA YOON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN POYNTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOURMET FOOD STORES (88%); RESTAURANTS (77%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (73%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (63%); WRITERS (63%); AIRPORTS (55%); AIRPORT OPERATION (55%); AVIATION SECURITY (55%)

COMPANY: J M SMUCKER CO (85%)

TICKER: SJM (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (85%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (91%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



446 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Sweet Rewards for Apricot Explorers

BYLINE: By DAVID KARP

DATELINE: Waterford, Calif. 

 BODY:
 JOHN DRIVER has flown halfway around the world for apricots. For the past 12 years he has regularly explored the fruit's most legendary growing areas in Central Asia. Last week he started gathering the bounty.
 At his farm here in the San Joaquin Valley, where he planted trees derived from seeds he brought back from his journeys, Mr. Driver harvested his first commercial crop of intensely flavored fruit, twice as sweet as the apricots usually sold in the United States. Labeled CandyCots, they will be in New York markets through early July.
 For decades, plant explorers, breeders and farmers have dreamed of bringing such supersweet varieties from the apricot's centers of origin to California, which produces 90 percent of the United States crop. Time and again, the promise has led to frustration because the trees generally needed colder winters than California's, and in other states spring frosts often killed their buds. 
 But Mr. Driver, 56, may have succeeded with varieties that seem well adapted to his area. A 10th-generation farmer who grows almonds and walnuts, he planted a test plot of 275 trees in 2001. 
 Starting in 2005, Mr. Driver sold fruits at the Ferry Plaza Farmers Market in San Francisco. The next year he planted the six varieties most popular with shoppers at an eight-acre transitional organic orchard (the one now starting to bear). He is crossbreeding these to create better varieties.
 His apricots average 26 degrees on the Brix scale of sweetness, double the figure typical for most American varieties. Some range into the mid-30s, surpassing any fresh fruit except dates.
 Mr. Driver is taking the unusual step of shipping his fruit to stores fully ripe, packed in foam-padded boxes to avoid bruising. 
 ''Maybe I'm crazy, but I think the industry needs to re-examine how they're selling fruit,'' he said. ''If I were a consumer, this is what I'd want.''
 His most extraordinary variety has smooth, fuzzless skin like a plum, tender yellow flesh and a honey taste. Such glossy-skinned apricots are fairly common in Central Asia, but have never been grown here.
 Most CandyCots are small and have deep orange flesh. Some hang on the tree after maturity, drying like raisins, and develop concentrated flavor. They have sweet, edible seeds in their pits.
 He obtained many of his seeds in the Fergana Valley, a stretch of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan famous for the diversity of its apricots. He was there to help local apricot farmers for a Christian nonprofit group called Community Development Consultants and for a program financed by the United States Agency for International Development. What he found could help revive Americans' taste for the fruit.
 Most of the apricots sold at domestic markets lack the musky fragrance and rich flavor of the best varieties. As recently as 20 years ago the leading variety grown in California was Blenheim, an heirloom packed with sweet-tart flavor. But urbanization and competition from imports of Turkish dried apricots have almost annihilated cultivation in its traditional growing area around San Jose.
 Farmers moved east to cheaper land in the San Joaquin Valley, but they could not grow Blenheim there because the searing heat cooked its tender flesh. They planted tougher varieties, but these lacked real apricot flavor. Sales and plantings plummeted.
 Like Mr. Driver, other apricot breeders saw hope in Central Asia. In 1988 Maxine Thompson of Oregon State University brought back varieties from the Hunza Valley in northern Pakistan, but they rarely fruited in California.
 Craig Ledbetter, a breeder with the United States Department of Agriculture, has been crossing supersweet Hunzas with larger-fruited varieties adapted to California conditions. Last week at his test plot in Parlier, Calif., his most promising trees bore heavy crops of large fruit with almost as much sugar as the average CandyCot.
 The Central Asian fruits are not the only varieties to make lengthy journeys. In Brentwood, Calif., F. A. Maggiore & Sons hopes to harvest 100,000 pounds of Angelcots, sweet white apricots that the fruit breeder Ross Sanborn developed from Iranian and Moroccan seeds. Citarella will have them next week.
 Two pale varieties are now available for planting by home gardeners. Zaiger's Genetics has introduced a white Aprium (an apricot-plum hybrid resembling an apricot) named Cot-N-Candy; and Joseph Goffreda, a Rutgers breeder, released Sugar Pearls, a white apricot of Afghan and Iranian parentage that is adapted to Middle Atlantic growing conditions.
 As for the CandyCots, Mr. Driver is planning on growing demand. He has taken on partners who will plant another 14 acres next winter and is working with a farmer in Washington State to grow more. ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''we'd like to have 1,000 to 1,500 acres.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INTENSE FLAVOR: John Driver, below, is bringing CandyCots to market.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID KARP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (78%); TREE NUT FARMING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); ASIA (90%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



447 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: At Social Site, Only the Businesslike Need Apply

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
For a Web site, it could hardly look less exciting. Its pages are heavy with text, much of it a flat blue, and there are few photos and absolutely no videos. 
 But LinkedIn, the social network for professionals, is dull by design. Unlike Facebook and MySpace, the site is aimed at career-minded, white-collar workers, people who join more for the networking than the social.
 Now, in the midst of Silicon Valley's recession-proof enthusiasm for community-oriented Web sites, the most boring of the social networks is finally grabbing the spotlight.
 On Wednesday, LinkedIn will announce that it has raised $53 million in capital, primarily from Bain Capital Ventures, a Boston-based private equity firm. The new financing round values the company at $1 billion. That heady valuation is more than the $580 million that the News Corporation paid for MySpace in 2005, but less than the $15 billion value assigned to Facebook last year when Microsoft bought a minority stake. 
 LinkedIn's investment round delays a rumored initial public offering, which would have finally tested the public market's interest in social networking. 
 ''What we didn't want is to have the distraction of being public and to be worried by quarterly performance,'' said Dan Nye, the buttoned-down chief executive of LinkedIn, who would not be caught dead in the Birkenstocks and rumpled T-shirts favored by MySpace and Facebook employees.
 LinkedIn, which says it is already profitable, will use the investment to make acquisitions and expand its overseas operations.
 ''We want to create a broad and critical business tool that is used by tens of millions of business professionals every day to make them better at what they do,'' Mr. Nye said. 
 The average age of a LinkedIn user is 41, the point in life where people are less likely to build their digital identities around dates, parties and photos of revelry. 
 LinkedIn gives professionals, even the most hopeless wallflower, a painless way to follow the advice of every career counselor: build a network. Users maintain online resumes, establish links with colleagues and business acquaintances and then expand their networks to the contacts of their contacts. The service also helps them search for experts who can help them solve daily business problems. 
 The four-year-old site is decidedly antisocial: only last fall, after what executives describe as a year of intense debate, did the company ask members to add photos to their profiles.
 That business-only-please strategy appears to be paying off. The number of people using LinkedIn, based in Mountain View, Calif., tripled in May over the previous year, according to Nielsen Online. At 23 million members, LinkedIn remains far smaller than Facebook and MySpace, each with 115 million members, but it is growing considerably faster.
 LinkedIn also has a more diversified approach to making money than its entertainment-oriented rivals, which are struggling to bring in ad dollars and keep up with inflated expectations for increased revenue.
 LinkedIn will get only a quarter of its projected $100 million in revenue this year from ads. (It places ads from companies like Microsoft and Southwest Airlines on profile pages.) Other moneymakers include premium subscriptions, which let users directly contact any user on the site instead of requiring an introduction from another member. 
 A third source of revenue is recruitment tools that companies can use to find people who may not even be actively looking for new jobs. Companies pay to search for candidates with specific skills, and each day, they get new prospects as people who fit their criteria join LinkedIn. 
 LinkedIn is set to undergo a radical shift in strategy to find other sources of revenue. Instead of catering primarily to individual white-collar workers, the site will soon introduce new services aimed at companies. It is a risky move that could alienate members who prefer to use the networking site to network -- without their bosses peering over their shoulders. 
 One new product, Company Groups, automatically gathers all the employees from a company who use LinkedIn into a single, private Web forum. Employees can pose questions to each other, and share and discuss news articles about their industry. 
 Soon, LinkedIn plans to add additional features, like a group calendar, and let independent developers contribute their own programs that will allow employees to collaborate on projects.
 The idea is to let firms exploit their employees' social connections, institutional memories and special skills -- knowledge that large, geographically dispersed companies often have a difficult time obtaining.
 For example, in a test of the feature by AKQA, a digital ad agency in San Francisco, an employee based in Amsterdam recently asked her 350 colleagues on LinkedIn if the firm had done any previous work for television production companies. Executives in San Francisco, New York and London promptly responded to the query.
 ''This is a collected, protected space for employees to talk to each other and reference outside information,'' said Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn's founder and chairman.
 Becoming even more corporate is something of a gamble for LinkedIn. Many companies might resist the idea of confidential corporate information circulating on LinkedIn's servers -- and perhaps being exposed to former employees who are included in the group because they have not updated their LinkedIn resumes. (LinkedIn says every member of a company group can remove people whom they identify as former workers or interlopers.)
 Diffusing the purpose of the site might also repel some users. 
 ''It will be extraordinarily challenging to simultaneously serve as a corporate tool and yet promote the 'brand of me' in an emerging free-agent nation,'' said Keith Rabois, a former LinkedIn executive who is now vice president at Slide, a maker of applications for social networks.
 Jeffrey Glass, a partner at Bain Capital, says his firm invested in LinkedIn primarily because it is now becoming popular enough to introduce these kinds of products to companies and other organizations, like universities. 
 ''This is a powerful tool because inside the corporation, there are massive bodies of knowledge and relationships between individuals that the corporation has been unable to take advantage of until now,'' he said. 
 The new services could help LinkedIn fend off some new competition. Microsoft, long covetous of rapidly growing social-networking properties, is internally testing a service called TownSquare that allows employees of a company to follow one another's activities on the corporate network.
 Executives at Facebook, meanwhile, have recently said that they see networking tools for professionals as a primary avenue of growth. The site recently added networking to the list of options that new users select when they are asked to specify what they intend to do on the site.
 Mr. Hoffman was an early investor in Facebook and says he does not want to disparage the competition. But he said that most members of Facebook who are older than 30 use it for entertainment, like playing Scrabulous, a version of Scrabble -- not for doing their jobs. 
 ''Scrabulous is not work, and it does not enable you to be an effective professional,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW JOHNSON/iSTOCKPHOTO)
 Dan Nye, left, chief executive of LinkedIn, and Reid Hoffman, its founder. Instead of relying on ads, like other networking sites, the company concentrates on subscriptions and recruiting tools.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE GETZSCHMAN)(pg. C2) CHART: A Social Network for the Serious: LinkedIn is much smaller than its two better-known rivals, but it is gaining a following.(Source: comScore)Chart details bar graph and statistics social networks.(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (88%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: LINKEDIN CORP (92%); MYSPACE INC (92%); NEWS CORP (69%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: LNKD (NYSE) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



448 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: Bill Extending Jobless Benefits Is Blocked By G.O.P.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Senate Republicans blocked legislation that would have given an extra three months of jobless benefits to all unemployed Americans, but Congressional Democrats plan to bring the bill back by attaching it to an Iraq war financing measure. The majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, tried to bring the unemployment extension bill up for quick consideration, but was stymied by an objection from Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Senate's No. 2 Republican. It takes unanimous agreement to fast track a bill in the Senate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%)

PERSON: JON KYL (59%); HARRY REID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



449 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: MBIA Debt Is Setting Up A Quandary

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The risks associated with the vast, unregulated market for credit default swaps played a crucial role in the bailout of Bear Stearns. Now these financial instruments are taking center stage in another Wall Street drama: whether regulators will let MBIA, the big bond insurance company, renege on a promise to shore up a crucial unit with $900 million in capital.
 MBIA has written $137 billion in swaps, which are privately traded insurance contracts that let people bet on companies' financial health. Most of these contracts stipulate that if MBIA's bond insurance unit becomes insolvent or is taken over by state regulators, buyers can demand payment immediately. 
 But if that were to happen, MBIA would have far less money to pay policyholders and owners of municipal bonds backed by the company. So the swaps give MBIA significant leverage over Eric R. Dinallo, the commissioner of the New York State insurance department, who wanted the company to bolster its insurance unit with the $900 million in cash. 
 In the case of Bear Stearns, the Federal Reserve feared that credit default swaps might unleash a chain reaction of losses if the bank were allowed to collapse. Given the threat that similar swaps may pose to MBIA, Mr. Dinallo is unlikely to push for a regulatory takeover of the subsidiary even if Joseph W. Brown, MBIA's chief executive, refuses to recapitalize the unit. 
 Mr. Dinallo confirmed last week that the swaps written by MBIA and other financial guarantors were a big factor in his dealings with the weakened bond insurers. 
 ''It is a concern that possibly if one of the companies filed for rehabilitation or if we move to rehabilitate, the holders of the credit default swaps could move to get preferential treatment,'' he said. 
 Mr. Dinallo said he could refuse to honor acceleration demands if he took over a bond insurance firm, but such a move would almost certainly prompt investors who hold the credit default swaps to press their cases in court. The acceleration clause is a standard feature in credit default swaps written by many bond guarantors, including Ambac and the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company. 
 MBIA, which insures $670 billion in municipal bonds and mortgage-related securities, has been hit hard by the credit crisis. It recorded a $2.4 billion loss in its most recent quarter and lost its prized AAA rating from Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor's; its shareholders have watched their holdings plummet 67 percent since the beginning of the year. 
 Wall Street is worried that rising losses on the $230 billion in mortgage and related securities that MBIA has guaranteed will burn through the company's capital in the coming years. The company has said it expects total losses of $2 billion, while other analysts believe the number could be as high as $14 billion.
 MBIA's woes have raised concerns that its insurance unit is on shaky ground and that policyholders may be at risk. To allay such fears, MBIA raised $2.6 billion in capital and twice committed to contributing $900 million to its insurance unit.
 On May 12, for instance, MBIA promised to contribute the money to the subsidiaries within 30 days. ''This contribution is consistent with our previously announced capital strengthening plan and is intended to support MBIA Insurance Corporation's triple-A ratings and existing and future policyholders,'' the company said. 
 But the 30 days have come and gone with no contribution from MBIA. Last week, the company noted that ''the landscape has changed,'' and said it instead wanted to use the $900 million to start a new insurance subsidiary, letting the existing unit wind down its operations. The company said it had changed its thinking because S.& P. and Moody's Investors Service, another rating firm, recently have indicated that a $900 million injection into its existing insurance subsidiary might not be enough for the unit to maintain its current high ratings. 
 ''We have stated from the beginning that we believe MBIA Insurance Corporation has substantially more claims-paying resources and liquidity than it will need to satisfy fully all policyholder obligations on a timely basis,'' C. Edward Chaplin, the company's chief financial officer, said in a statement last week. ''A high priority is pursuing opportunities to support the bond insurance market as a whole.''
 But Joshua Rosner, an analyst at Graham-Fisher in New York, said, ''It seems to me that if Jay Brown insists on putting the money anywhere other than at the insurance subsidiary or through a new subsidiary directly under it, he is making a very clear statement that he no longer believes in the viability of the insurance company to meet its obligations.''
 The swaps' acceleration clauses appear to be a factor in this bit of brinksmanship, although MBIA does not advertise their existence. In a presentation about its first-quarter results, for example, MBIA said its ''insurance contracts are not subject to acceleration.''
 Asked about this discrepancy, MBIA said the presentation language meant that holders of its swaps have no acceleration rights ''as long as the company continues to operate in its current manner,'' which it believes it will do.
 ''Fortunately, for us it's not something that we have to be concerned about,'' said Greg Diamond, director of investor relations for the company.
 Mr. Dinallo said he would consider allowing MBIA to put the $900 million into a new company if it reinsured the municipal bonds in MBIA's existing insurance unit.
 ''I am trying to think carefully of what is the right use from a regulatory perspective for that $1 billion,'' he said. ''If they intend to take the billion and do some cut through reinsurance for the municipal side, I'd be very open to it.''
 MBIA said it was working closely with Mr. Dinallo's office and ''would consider selected reinsurance opportunities'' for its new subsidiary.
 But others are not so sure. John Miller, chief investment officer at Nuveen Asset Management, a big municipal bond fund manager in Chicago, voiced skepticism about MBIA's plans to start a new insurance subsidiary that could reinsure its existing portfolio.
 ''It would be surprising to me if it would be successful,'' Mr. Miller said. ''It will still be an MBIA-insured bond and then reinsured also by MBIA, but MBIA as a new company.''
 As the negotiations between MBIA and the state insurance commissioner continue, a bill is moving through the New York State Legislature that would put restrictions on financial guarantors that insure credit default swaps. For example, a financial guarantor could insure a swap only if the buyer owns the underlying bonds and is using the swap as a hedge.
 Mr. Dinallo said his office was also working on new rules for how and when bond guarantors can write credit default swaps. ''When we rewrite the rules of the road we have to make sure this doesn't happen again,'' Mr. Dinallo said.
 For its part, MBIA said it would no longer write credit default swaps.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric R. Dinallo, the commissioner of the New York State insurance department, leading a staff meeting Monday in his office.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (63%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



450 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Investors Seek Asian Options To Costly China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Keith Bradsher reported in April from Vietnam and later from Bangkok, Beijing, Hong Kong, Manila and Guangzhou, China.

DATELINE: HANOI 

 BODY:
Canon is no longer building or expanding factories in China, but the company is doubling its work force at a printer factory outside Hanoi to 8,000. 
 Nearby, Nissan is expanding a vehicle engineering center. Hanesbrands, the underwear company based in Winston-Salem, N.C., is setting up two new factories here, as is the Texhong Textile Group from Shanghai.
 China remains the most popular destination for foreign industrial investment in the world, attracting almost $83 billion last year. But a growing number of multinational corporations are pursuing a strategy that companies and analysts call ''China plus one,'' establishing or expanding Asian bases outside China, particularly in Vietnam. 
 A long list of concerns about China is feeding the trend: inflation, shortages of workers and energy, a strengthening currency, changing government policies, even the possibility of widespread civil unrest someday. But most important, wages in China are rising close to 25 percent a year in many industries, in dollar terms, and China is no longer such a bargain. 
 Even as companies seek other places to make their goods, they are stalked by overheated economies: in Vietnam, for example, inflation was 25.2 percent last month.
 More than corporate profit margins are at stake. When the cost of making goods in Asia rises, American consumers inevitably feel pain. The Labor Department said Thursday that import prices were 4.6 percent higher in May than a year earlier for goods from China and 6.4 percent higher for goods from southeast Asia. 
 Companies are using the China-plus-one strategy to mitigate the risks of overdependence on factories in one country. 
 Multinational corporations are ''thinking about all the world and keeping a balance'' between China and other countries, said Edward Kang, the chief executive of Ever-Glory International, a sportswear manufacturer in Nanjing, China. Ever-Glory, which sells to Wal-Mart and Kohl's, is building a factory in Vietnam.
 Companies remaining in China are desperately seeking to control costs.
 ''We will maintain our capacity in China, but we will make it more automatic and reduce the number of employees,'' said Laurence Shu, the chief financial officer of Shanghai-based Texhong, one of the world's largest makers of cotton and spandex fabric.
 To limit labor costs, Hanesbrands is building a largely automated factory in Nanjing. But the company is also building a factory in Vietnam, in addition to a factory it bought here, and two more in Thailand. 
 Gerald Evans, the president for global supply chain at Hanesbrands, said that compared with China, ''we found more ready availability of both land and labor in both Vietnam and Thailand.'' Hanesbrands will be shifting some manufacturing from Mexico and Central America to Asia.
 In China, where rural villages are running low on able-bodied young workers to send to factories, wages are rising more than 10 percent a year for many assembly-line workers. And pay is rising even faster for skilled workers, like machinery repair technicians.
 In coastal provinces with ready access to ports, even unskilled workers now earn $120 a month for a 40-hour workweek, and often considerably more; wages in inland provinces, where transport is costlier, are somewhat lower but also rising fast. While Chinese wages are still less than $1 an hour, factory workers in Vietnam earn as little as $50 a month for a 48-hour workweek, including Saturdays. 
 Texhong estimates that average labor costs for each textile worker in China will rise 16 percent this year, including increases in benefits costs -- on top of a 12 percent increase last year. New regulations are making it harder for companies to avoid paying for benefits, like pensions, further increasing labor costs.
 When those increases are combined with a currency rising against the dollar at an annual pace of up to 10 percent, labor costs in China are now climbing at 25 percent a year or more.
 Inflation in China -- more than 8 percent in February, March and April and 7.7 percent in May -- raises the prospect that labor costs will soar even faster soon. That could push up prices for a wide range of goods exported to the United States. 
 China is also phasing out its practice of charging lower corporate tax rates for foreign-owned companies. By contrast, Vietnam still offers foreign investors a corporate tax rate of zero for the first four years, and half the usual rate of 10 percent for the next four years. 
 Foreign direct investment in China has grown by a third over the last three years. By contrast, foreign direct investment has more than doubled in this period in the Philippines, quintupled in India and soared more than eightfold in Vietnam.
 Faster rates of increase in other Asian countries had partly reflected lower starting points. But investment is still growing quickly, and now it's growing from high levels. For example, foreign investment in Vietnam reached nearly $18 billion last year.
 A popular saying among Western investors is that Vietnam is the next China. Cambodia, with even lower wages attracting garment manufacturers, is called the next Vietnam.
 But Vietnam has only 1/16th of China's population and Cambodia has one-fifth of Vietnam's. As foreign investors leap into each new country, they drive up the cost of workers and goods, a dynamic that makes it less likely that a shift in investment patterns will hold down inflation in American imports. 
 A recent survey by Grant Thornton, a global accounting and consulting firm, found that companies were more worried about attracting and retaining critical staff in Vietnam than anywhere else in the world. (China was a close second.)
 ''We trained them, we educated them and then they quit,'' said Akira Akashi, the chairman of Nissan Techno, a division of Nissan that designs vehicles.
 The company plans to expand to 1,400 engineers in Vietnam by 2010. Beginning engineers here still earn just $200 a month, less than half the salary in China and less than a tenth of American and Japanese salaries.
 Even blue-collar labor is becoming harder to find. In addition to the size of the labor force, infrastructure is also likely to be a brake on how fast China plus one can expand. Most countries in Asia, including Vietnam, have not improved transportation links as quickly as China. Lengthy traffic jams slow down shipments and drive up costs. 
 Vietnam's biggest selling point for many companies is its political stability. Like China, it has a nominally Communist one-party system that crushes dissent, keeps the military under tight control and changes government policies and leaders slowly.
 ''Communism means more stability,'' Mr. Shu, the chief financial officer of Texhong, said, voicing a common view among Asian executives who make investment decisions. At least a few American executives agree, although they never say so on the record.
 Democracies like those in Thailand and the Philippines have proved more vulnerable to military coups and instability. A military coup in Thailand in September 2006 was briefly followed by an attempt, never completed, to impose nationalistic legislation penalizing foreign companies.
 ''That sent the wrong signal that we would not welcome foreign investment -- this has ruined the confidence of investors locally and internationally,'' the finance minister Surapong Suebwonglee said in an interview in Bangkok.
 Yet, like China, Vietnam does not offer complete tranquillity either. For instance, workers are becoming more vocal and staging more strikes, despite a government ban on independent unions.
 Nearly 20,000 workers walked out this spring at a Nike shoe factory run by a Taiwanese contractor. The workers went back to work only when given a 10 percent raise, to $55 a month, and a larger meal subsidy.
 That restive pattern is also evident in India, which is expected to have more people than China within two decades. 
 But many companies are leery of poor roads and congested ports in India, as well as long sailing times for components that must be shipped from existing factories in China. 
 And even in India, demand for workers with industrial skills or the ability to speak English outstrips the supply -- and their wages have been rising by 10 to 20 percent a year.
 That has led to worries about India's long-term competitiveness, even for those investing heavily there, like Ford Motor, which is planning to spend $500 million on factory expansion.
 ''I keep saying to our people, 'How long will it be until we're priced out of the market?' '' said John Parker, Ford's executive vice president for Asia, Pacific and Africa. ''The impact of that some day is you're no longer low-cost.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Following a trend, the electronics maker Samsung is building a plant in Yenphong, Vietnam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHS: INVESTMENT IN PARTS OF ASIA IS GROWING FAST . . .: Factory investment continues to pour into China, but foreign investment is rising even faster in neighboring Vietnam and India. Nearby Thailand has attracted somewhat less investment because of worries about its political stability
. . . ALONG WITH CONCERNS ABOUT MAINTAINING ECONOMIC GROWTH: The percentage of privately held companies that are more worried than a year ago about attracting and retaining key staff is highest in fast-growing emerging markets in Asia and lowest in Japan, Singapore and Europe. (Sources: China Ministry of Commerce
India Secretariat for Industrial Assistance
Vietnam General Statistical Office
Bank of Thailand, all via CEIC Data
 Grant Thornton International Business Report 2008) (pg. A11) Graphs showing where factory and foreign investments are growing rapidly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (77%); FABRICS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (73%); COTTON FABRICS (72%); TEXTILES (71%); IMPORT PRICES (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (54%)

COMPANY: CANON INC (91%); HANESBRANDS INC (58%); TEXHONG TEXTILE GROUP LTD (57%); EVER-GLORY INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: CAJ (NYSE) (91%); 7751 (TSE) (91%); HBI (NYSE) (58%); 2678 (HKSE) (57%); EVK (NYSE MKT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (58%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2341 WOMEN'S, MISSES', CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR (58%); SIC2322 MEN'S & BOYS' UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR (58%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS (57%); SIC2281 YARN SPINNING MILLS (57%); NAICS315280 OTHER CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2251 WOMEN'S FULL-LENGTH & KNEE-LENGTH HOSIERY, EXCEPT SOCKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (73%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); VIET NAM (97%); ASIA (94%); THAILAND (94%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



451 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: World's Refugee Count in 2007 Exceeded 11 Million, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
The number of refugees crossing borders to escape conflict and persecution increased last year, and threatens to continue to grow because of factors like climate change and scarce resources, the United Nations refugee agency warned Tuesday. 
 The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees oversaw the care of 11.4 million refugees in 2007, including about 400,000 people who were enduring conflict in their own countries, the agency said. The total was 9.9 million people in 2006.
 The numbers were modest compared with the 17.8 million refugees during the Balkan wars in 1992, but after a steady drop from 2001 to 2005 they represent a worrisome trend, the agency said.
 ''We are now faced with a complex mix of global challenges that could threaten even more forced displacement in the future,'' Antonio Guterres, the high commissioner, said in a statement. 
 The challenges include armed conflicts, bad governance, environmental degradation and extreme price increases for basic goods that have hit the poor the hardest and created instability in many places, Mr. Guterres said.
 The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan accounted for more than half of the world's refugees in 2007. More than two million Iraqis have sought refuge in Syria and Jordan, and three million Afghans have fled to Pakistan and Iran, the refugee agency said. 
 More than 45,000 Iraqis went home in 2007, some of them driven by the hardship of life in refugee camps, but 885,000 left the country for reasons that included violence, sectarian conflict and economic difficulty.
 More than four million Afghans have returned home voluntarily in the past five years, and 374,000 went back in 2007. But the rate of return has diminished, partly because of insecurity but also because many of those inclined to return have already done so, the agency said.
 The latest statistics contradict a number of misconceptions about refugee patterns, officials said, starting with the notion that Western countries shelter most fugitives from conflict.
 Instead, 80 percent of refugees remain in developing countries in the immediate vicinity of their own countries, the agency said.
 Pakistan accepted more than 2 million refugees in 2007, and Syria 1.5 million. The United States sheltered 281,000, according to the agency's data. Developing countries are increasingly reluctant to shoulder the burden of refugees and are imposing stricter criteria for acceptance.
 ''It's becoming a more and more inhospitable world for refugees,'' said William Spindler, an agency spokesman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); STATISTICS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (95%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); SYRIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JORDAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



452 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Workshop on Preparing for Calamities Focuses on the Flu

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Be afraid, be very afraid. There is no telling what the next disaster will be. Another terrorist attack? A steam pipe explosion like the one that shut down several blocks of Lexington Avenue a year ago? Or perhaps a pandemic flu that would cripple New York City's economy by making people afraid to go to work or ride on subways and buses?
 That was the message at a daylong workshop conducted on Tuesday by the city's health and emergency management agencies, intended to give businesses tips on how to cope with the potential calamities. 
 The workshop had all the portentous, overwrought atmosphere of movies about how the world is coming to an end and everyone had better be ready, from ''War of the Worlds'' to the latest M. Night Shyamalan film. Only in this faux disaster, the participants -- some of whom have spent years immersing themselves in the subject -- were treating it with deadly earnestness.
 The possibility of an influenza pandemic was the disaster du jour. Dr. Isaac B. Weisfuse, the city's deputy health commissioner for disease control, told an audience of about 300 business people that since history repeats itself, he considers it likely that there will be a worldwide outbreak of flu, possibly a mutation of the current avian flu, sometime in the 21st century, just as there were killer disease epidemics in virtually every other century.
 ''Everybody in the whole state -- local governments, businesses large and small, families -- should be preparing,'' Dr. Weisfuse told the gathering at New York University.
 Just as Americans built bomb shelters and stocked them with crackers during the Cold War, the city has been stockpiling supplies to combat pandemic flu, Dr. Weisfuse assured his audience. He announced that 25 million surgical face masks -- known as P.P.E.'s, short for ''personal protective equipment'' -- are secreted in a New York City warehouse.
 ''I'm very proud of this collection,'' Dr. Weisfuse said, showing a slide of the rows upon rows of boxed-up masks, like the treasure in an Indiana Jones movie. ''We have more face masks than you could ever imagine.''
 But, still not enough. The stockpile is equal to three for each of the city's eight million residents, and epidemiologists recommend changing those face masks twice a day. ''Look at all these lovely boxes,'' Dr. Weisfuse said. ''They're going to be empty after about a day and a half of pandemic.''
 (One audience member, who said he managed a 42-story residential high-rise, wondered how many microns of particle size the mask should be able to guard against. Dr. Weisfuse replied, in essence, that it does not mater, because the masks are so loose that some germs are bound to escape from the sides.)
 In an indication of how hot the topic is, a competing workshop on preparing employers for pandemic flu has been scheduled for Thursday at the Javits Convention Center, sponsored by, among others, Roche, the maker of Tamiflu, an antiviral treatment used to treat and prevent seasonal flu.
 At Tuesday's session, city officials said they were thinking far beyond the common flu. The city has access to enough antiviral medications to give more than two million people a five-day course of treatment, a supply based on the expectation that a pandemic flu would attack about 25 percent of the population, Dr. Weisfuse said. It is up to individual businesses to decide whether to stockpile their own antiviral medications, and they run the risk of having to replace them at the end of their current five-year shelf life. There are also legal and ethical implications in determining who should get the medication if there is not enough, he said. (The government has posted some guidelines for distributing medication, with national security workers, health care workers, emergency services workers, drug manufacturers, elected officials and infrastructure workers ranking high on the list.)
 The federal government has 20 million to 30 million prepared doses of vaccine, he said, which would probably be reserved for health care workers and the military.
 But Dr. Weisfuse noted that this stockpile was based on the existing strain of avian flu, H5N1, which is not easily transmitted from person to person, and said the real threat would come from a mutation in the existing strain.
 ''We don't know if the prepared vaccination is going to be very useful,'' he said, noting that flu germs have been adept at developing drug resistance. ''It may be that we're kind of all up the creek, because we have no treatment regimens that would be effective.'' Controlling a pandemic and keeping a city running at the same time is a delicate balancing act: how to keep mass transit running so people can get to work, while advising people to stay out of crowds, where flu can spread by coughing?
 ''We know people are more likely to walk,'' Dr. Weisfuse said, ''which, quite frankly, wouldn't be a bad thing, for obesity, exercise.''
 The city's quintessential urbanness could be its silver lining.
 ''One of the beauties of living in New York City is that we have no big poultry production farms,'' like, say, Pennsylvania, Dr. Weisfuse said, with a hint of glee.
 But the city does have live poultry markets, and city officials are making plans to cull diseased birds from those markets. In any case, Dr. Weisfuse dismissed that problem as ''small potatoes.''
 So, someone in the audience asked, what are the chances?
 ''Let's look at history,'' Dr. Weisfuse replied, and then he ticked it off: pandemics in 1968, 1957 and 1918 (the worst, in which an estimated 30 million to 50 million people died). 
 ''By that criterion,'' he said, ''we're kind of due.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 25 million face masks are stored in a warehouse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (74%); COLD WAR (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



453 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: At Museum in Shoeless Joe's House, Fans Say He Deserves a Spot in the Hall

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

DATELINE: GREENVILLE, S.C. 

 BODY:
Shoeless Joe Jackson died 57 years ago in the tiny, red-brick house on the edge of this city that he shared with his wife, Kate. It was in the 950-square-foot home that he endured the final 10 years of his life and the last of three decades banished from baseball for his role in fixing the 1919 World Series
 The home was lifted in 2006 from its foundation on East Wilburn Street, sliced from top to bottom, hauled three miles, and reassembled in a parking lot facing the Class A Greenville Drive's ballpark.
 On Saturday, the house will reopen as the Shoeless Joe Jackson Baseball Museum and Library at 356 Field Street, the number an homage to his career batting average for the Philadelphia A's, the Cleveland Naps turned Indians and the Chicago White Sox. 
 He grew up here and played for the baseball team organized by the Brandon Mill, whose cotton lint he swept up as a child.
 Although it is expected to attract tourists to the city's redeveloped downtown and west side, the miniature museum is really the passion of one woman who came to love his story.
 ''We want the museum to be ground zero for Joe's election to the Hall of Fame,'' said Arlene Marcley, the president of the museum's foundation, its curator, publicist and, she adds, its painter and housecleaner too.
 ''We're not here to argue the case,'' she said, standing on the living room's original pine floors. ''We're here to tell his story. And we don't know the full story.''
 Here, his is not a tale of shame but instead one of civic pride in a local sports hero who always said he had done nothing to rig the 1919 World Series for the $5,000 he admitted receiving from gamblers, and who some say has served enough time in purgatory.
 ''People here think if he's guilty of anything, it was of being naive,'' said Craig Brown, a co-owner and president of the Greenville team, which was told by minor league officials not to call the team the Joes in his honor. A bronze statue near the ballpark depicts Jackson swinging toward the nearby Brandon Mill field that bears his name. The statue stands on bricks from old Comiskey Park, where he played from 1915 to 1920.
 Raised in Georgia, the 66-year-old Marcley had not heard of Jackson until a local petition began circulating in 1997 to make him eligible for election to the Hall of Fame.
 She became more interested when Ted Williams lobbied for Jackson to be removed from the permanently ineligible list. She began assembling exhibits about him at City Hall, where she is executive assistant to Mayor Knox White, and started raising $60,000 for the statue, which was sculpted in the City Hall lobby.
 ''Whenever I heard the words, 'Regardless of the verdict of juries,' '' she said, shuddering slightly as she recited from Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis's fiat in 1921 that barred Jackson and seven White Sox teammates even after a Chicago jury acquitted them of conspiracy to throw the 1919 World Series won by Cincinnati. 
 ''Landis was a stinker,'' she said.
 The museum lacks Hall of Fame-quality artifacts, including his storied 48-ounce Black Betsy that a collector, Rob Mitchell of Pottstown, Pa., bought in 2001 for $577,610. But it features the house's original fireplace, awnings, bathroom tub and mirror. There are vintage photographs, a whistle from the Brandon Mill, a short film, items from the Ty Cobb Museum in Royston, Ga., and 2,000 baseball books shelved on the pine walls of the original screened-in porch.
 There is some irony in the baseball library; Jackson could not read or write. 
 ''It's important that education be central to the museum,'' Marcley said.
 Admission is free but donations will be appreciated to augment the meager, privately financed budget. Marcley says there are enough Jackson fans to make this personal and passionate campaign succeed.
 ''I have five men in my life,'' she said. ''My husband, my son, the mayor, Joel Poinsett,'' -- an 18th-century South Carolina statesman for whom the poinsettia is named -- ''and Shoeless Joe Jackson.''
 In nearby Simpsonville, Shoeless Joe's 16-year-old great-great grand nephew, also named Joe Jackson, catches and bats left-handed for the Mauldin High School team.
 ''I've think he was a great man,'' Joe Jackson said at his family's dining room table. ''Humble. We don't think he was guilty.''
 In his living room, a photograph of Shoeless Joe, in his left-handed stance, hangs above one of young Joe Jackson, also a left-handed batter. Young Joe's mother, Linda, pointed to their similarities in the batter's box, in particular the wide distance between their feet. Her son hit .387 this season swinging a 32-inch, 29-ounce aluminum bat for the varsity squad. ''Joe has no real holes in his swing,'' said his coach, Todd Robinson. ''He adjusts.''
 Jackson said he does not brag about his family history.
 ''My parents tell me, 'Don't say anything unless someone asks,' '' he said. But, he said, his friends ''think it's cool.''
 During a recent class discussion of ''The Great Gatsby,'' which contains a reference to the Black Sox scandal, Jackson said his English teacher asked him to elaborate on the pock mark on early baseball.
 ''I explained it to her, but she didn't know I was related,'' he said. His teacher, Ida Rainey, confirmed his story, saying: ''It's a common name. I've taught a lot of Jacksons.''
 The Jackson relatives living in the area seem content to let others argue Shoeless Joe's case. His widow, Kate, told the family, ''Just let it be,'' said Linda Jackson.
 But local fans continue to believe in him. 
 ''The main thing that keeps him alive is he hit .356 and people intuitively think that someone that great should be recognized by baseball,'' said Gene Carney, who wrote ''Burying the Black Sox: How Baseball's Cover-Up of the 1919 World Series Fix Almost Succeeded'' (Potomac, 2006).
 Last year, the Chicago History Museum acquired an archive of documents about the Black Sox case. Peter T. Alter, a curator who has examined the papers, few of which have been seen publicly, said, ''There's no smoking gun that implicates someone new or exonerates anyone.''
 The uncertainty about Jackson's culpability in the conspiracy, beyond accepting a lot of cash for the era, motivates supporters like Marcley to advocate having the veterans committee of the Baseball Hall of Fame decide if he is worthy of election. ''Baseball should just say it no longer has any authority over Joe,'' Marcley said in the bedroom he died in, ''and let him be on the ballot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS TAMPERING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); SPORTS (73%); ATHLETES (71%); PETITIONS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); MAYORS (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: A BROWN CO INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (56%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (63%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



454 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Yes, We Will Have No Bananas

BYLINE: By DAN KOEPPEL. 
Dan Koeppel is the author of ''Banana: The Fate of the Fruit That Changed the World.''

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 ONCE you become accustomed to gas at $4 a gallon, brace yourself for the next shocking retail threshold: bananas reaching $1 a pound. At that price, Americans may stop thinking of bananas as a cheap staple, and then a strategy that has served the big banana companies for more than a century -- enabling them to turn an exotic, tropical fruit into an everyday favorite -- will begin to unravel.
 The immediate reasons for the price increase are the rising cost of oil and reduced supply caused by floods in Ecuador, the world's biggest banana exporter. But something larger is going on that will affect prices for years to come. 
 That bananas have long been the cheapest fruit at the grocery store is astonishing. They're grown thousands of miles away, they must be transported in cooled containers and even then they survive no more than two weeks after they're cut off the tree. Apples, in contrast, are typically grown within a few hundred miles of the store and keep for months in a basket out in the garage. Yet apples traditionally have cost at least twice as much per pound as bananas. 
 Americans eat as many bananas as apples and oranges combined, which is especially amazing when you consider that not so long ago, bananas were virtually unknown here. They became a staple only after the men who in the late 19th century founded the United Fruit Company (today's Chiquita) figured out how to get bananas to American tables quickly -- by clearing rainforest in Latin America, building railroads and communication networks and inventing refrigeration techniques to control ripening. The banana barons also marketed their product in ways that had never occurred to farmers or grocers before, by offering discount coupons, writing jingles and placing bananas in schoolbooks and on picture postcards. They even hired doctors to convince mothers that bananas were good for children.
 Once bananas had become widely popular, the companies kept costs low by exercising iron-fisted control over the Latin American countries where the fruit was grown. Workers could not be allowed such basic rights as health care, decent wages or the right to congregate. (In 1929, Colombian troops shot down banana workers and their families who were gathered in a town square after church.) Governments could not be anything but utterly pliable. Over and over, banana companies, aided by the American military, intervened whenever there was a chance that any ''banana republic'' might end its cooperation. (In 1954, United Fruit helped arrange the overthrow of the democratically elected government of Guatemala.) Labor is still cheap in these countries, and growers still resort to heavy-handed tactics. 
 The final piece of the banana pricing equation is genetics. Unlike apple and orange growers, banana importers sell only a single variety of their fruit, the Cavendish. There are more than 1,000 varieties of bananas -- most of them in Africa and Asia -- but except for an occasional exotic, the Cavendish is the only banana we see in our markets. It is the only kind that is shipped and eaten everywhere from Beijing to Berlin, Moscow to Minneapolis. 
 By sticking to this single variety, the banana industry ensures that all the bananas in a shipment ripen at the same rate, creating huge economies of scale. The Cavendish is the fruit equivalent of a fast-food hamburger: efficient to produce, uniform in quality and universally affordable.
 But there's a difference between a banana and a Big Mac: The banana is a living organism. It can get sick, and since bananas all come from the same gene pool, a virulent enough malady could wipe out the world's commercial banana crop in a matter of years. 
 This has happened before. Our great-grandparents grew up eating not the Cavendish but the Gros Michel banana, a variety that everyone agreed was tastier. But starting in the early 1900s, banana plantations were invaded by a fungus called Panama disease and vanished one by one. Forest would be cleared for new banana fields, and healthy fruit would grow there for a while, but eventually succumb. 
 By 1960, the Gros Michel was essentially extinct and the banana industry nearly bankrupt. It was saved at the last minute by the Cavendish, a Chinese variety that had been considered something close to junk: inferior in taste, easy to bruise (and therefore hard to ship) and too small to appeal to consumers. But it did resist the blight. 
 Over the past decade, however, a new, more virulent strain of Panama disease has begun to spread across the world, and this time the Cavendish is not immune. The fungus is expected to reach Latin America in 5 to 10 years, maybe 20. The big banana companies have been slow to finance efforts to find either a cure for the fungus or a banana that resists it. Nor has enough been done to aid efforts to diversify the world's banana crop by preserving little-known varieties of the fruit that grow in Africa and Asia. 
 In recent years, American consumers have begun seeing the benefits -- to health, to the economy and to the environment -- of buying foods that are grown close to our homes. Getting used to life without bananas will take some adjustment. What other fruit can you slice onto your breakfast cereal? 
 But bananas have always been an emblem of a long-distance food chain. Perhaps it's time we recognize bananas for what they are: an exotic fruit that, some day soon, may slip beyond our reach. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JACOB MAGRAW-MICKELSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (87%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ORANGE GROVES (75%); RETAIL COUPONS (74%); FAMILY (67%); RAIN FORESTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (82%)

TICKER: CQB (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (82%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); GUATEMALA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



455 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; AMERICAN ALBUM; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: In Hard Times, the Truck Stop Offers a Place to Pray

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: BREEZEWOOD, Pa. 

 BODY:
More than six million souls pass through this quarter-mile strip of all-night waffle houses and gas stations each year. The Rev. Shannon Rust hopes to save at least a few of them. 
 For nearly two decades, he has pulled the chapel inside his 18-wheel tractor-trailer twice a week to this bustling truck stop where the Pennsylvania Turnpike meets Interstate 70. 
 To most people, this place between Pittsburgh and Harrisburg is neither here nor there. It is a tank of gas, a bathroom break and a coffee refill. But to Mr. Rust, the diesel-soaked lot alongside the All-American Petro is a parish ideal for preaching to the traveling masses about life's ultimate arrival.
 ''They all have auto insurance,'' he said. ''I'm trying to tell them about soul insurance.'' 
 A lumbering man with a slow gait and an easy smile, Mr. Rust, 39, started preaching from his truck in 1991. He followed his father, Sam, 74, who began driving his own chapel-mounted truck in 1978 and still tours the East Coast a couple of times a year. 
 The men are part of a growing religious presence at truck stops and rest areas nationally. Last year, more than 230 truck stops and rest areas reported having on-site chapels, on wheels or otherwise, up from about 120 in 2000, according to the Trucker's Friend National Truck Stop Directory, an industry publication.
 The open road is one of the few places where people sit quietly with their thoughts these days, and more people have been showing up with heavy hearts, Mr. Rust said.
 Uprooted by the foreclosure crisis, pained by prices at the pumps and uncertain about the war, the economy and the coming election, they are anxious and searching for a sense of security, he said.
 ''It's loneliness and worry,'' he said, adding that truckers, especially the independent drivers who cover their own expenses, are struggling the most.
 When their cellphones break the solitary silence of long hauls, the calls are usually from wives who are home alone with broken appliances, teenage mischief or other problems that the drivers, so far away, can do little to help, Mr. Rust said. 
 ''They used to always just ask me to pray for their families to be safe while they're gone,'' said Mr. Rust, a member of the Assemblies of God. ''Now, they just want me to pray for their marriages, their homes and their jobs.''
 Four-wheelers, as the nontruckers are called, bring their worries to Mr. Rust, too. 
 Recently, it was a former addict just back from a two-year prison term for methamphetamine possession. Feeling himself slipping back toward temptation, the man asked for encouragement. Mr. Rust held his hand and knelt with him at the pump to pray for strength.
 Before that, it was a young prostitute someone left at his door. Mr. Rust found her a place to stay. Last week a drifter from California living in her rusty Ford Taurus needed convincing that God was not, in fact, punishing her with a life of transience, he said.
 ''I do more listening than talking these days because people have so much to unload,'' he said.
 Growing up, Mr. Rust spent many of his nights on summers and weekends sleeping on the chapel floor in the back of his father's truck as his parents toured the country. His calling to the ministry came one summer at a truck stop along Interstate 20 near Big Spring, Tex., after his father pulled off a desolate road to inspect what sounded like a tire blowout.
 A man, weeping, approached them and told of his marital problems and his losing battle with suicidal urges. The family prayed with the man, and when he stood, the man had a calm to him that Mr. Rust said he had never before seen. As the elder Mr. Rust finally stood to fix the tire he discovered that none had blown. 
 ''God really knows how to make an appointment,'' Mr. Rust said.
 Not everyone seems convinced.
 ''If the reverend could help with that right there, I might just start believing in God,'' said Cory Lewis, an independent driver from Morgantown, W. Va., as he pointed to the gas pump. Mr. Lewis added that it cost him $2,500 a week to keep his truck on the road, up from about $500 two years ago.
 Mr. Rust said he had lately seen subtle changes among drivers and truckers. 
 Fewer truckers spit sass when he prays for them over the CB, said Mr. Rust, whose ministry, ''Headlight in Trucking,'' subsists on about $90,000 in annual donations from churches across the country. 
 More travelers seem to be dropping in for the Sunday morning service he holds in the basement television lounge here, just across from the Asian massage and tattoo parlors. This year, he has been handing out about double the number of free Bibles and copies of a gospel CD, Untold Stories, released by his wife, Rebecca.
 Others have noticed changes, too.
 ''You can smell it,'' said Rodney Kagarise, 38, who cleans the showers in the basement of the Petro truck stop. 
 In years past, he cleaned the showers after each use by about 175 visitors a week, Mr. Kagarise said. This year, he has been cleaning about 90 per week, because drivers are under greater financial strains and less capable of paying the $10 it costs to use the shower, he said.
 ''I'm not one to read the book of Lamentations,'' said the Rev. Bruce B. Maxwell, a United Methodist chaplain who also works at the truck stop. But for the first time in his 15 years in the job, Mr. Maxwell assigned passages from the Old Testament collection of mournful poems about the destruction of Jerusalem to the Bible class he holds at the truck stop restaurant.
 ''It captures the anxiety out there,'' said Mr. Maxwell, who provides counsel, food and gas to people stranded at the truck stop.
 But, Mr. Rust and Mr. Maxwell were quick to add that alongside the worries, there is levity, even beauty, that blows through here all the time.
 They recounted a litany of odd encounters: a man with Tourette's syndrome and dressed as a clown, whom they helped with a bus ticket because his car broke down; and the fugitive they persuaded to stop running from the law but who called the police only to find out the charges against him had been dropped.
 Mr. Rust described a thank-you letter one man sent him recently after they had prayed together for the man's teenage daughter, who had run away but who then reappeared the next day. 
 ''It's been coming for a while,'' Mr. Rust said, abruptly shifting the topic back to the troubled times.
 He looked quietly at the sign he had placed next to the chapel entrance soon after the Sept. 11 attacks. What used to say ''Welcome Aboard'' now paraphrases from the second book of Timothy.
 ''America, but know this,'' it reads. ''That in the end, perilous times will come. Are you ready.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 18-WHEELER BY THE SIDE OF THE ROAD: The Rev. Shannon Rust, top, says tough times are bringing truckers and other drivers to his Headlight in Trucking chapel, inside his tractor-trailer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); RELIGION (66%); METHAMPHETAMINE (65%); CREDIT CRISIS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



456 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Budget Hotels for the Garment District

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
The garment district is taking in lodgers. A handful of developers is transforming an erstwhile manufacturing area into a magnet for budget-minded travelers.
 Although this pocket of Midtown Manhattan -- which is roughly bounded by 34th and 42nd Streets and Fifth and Ninth Avenues -- is still dotted with small garment factories and showrooms, recent zoning changes have allowed more residential and commercial construction on its fringes.
 Three years ago, when the city's Planning Department eased some zoning restrictions there, a few of the city's biggest hotel developers scooped up parcels. Experts estimate that at least a dozen hotels are either under construction or planned. 
 John A. Fox, a senior vice president in the hospitality research group at PKF Consulting, said these projects tended to be smaller budget-oriented hotels in the middle of blocks. Many will have brand names that are familiar to travelers, like Hampton Inn, Hilton Garden Inn and Holiday Inn Express.
 Mr. Fox said that most of the building lots in this area -- which were often former parking lots or warehouses -- were not suitable for hotels with more than 100 or 200 rooms. ''These sites have limited footprints, so you can't put bigger hotels there,'' he said.
 But he added that Manhattan had a dearth of midpriced hotel rooms and that the rates for most of the hotels going up in this area were expected to run about $250 a night, which passes for a bargain in Manhattan these days.
 Barbara Byrne Denham, the chief economist at Eastern Consolidated, a New York real estate firm, said she thought the new construction in and around the garment district fell below the radar screen for most New Yorkers, because they generally did not spend much time there.
 ''If you look at a map, this looks like a prime neighborhood,'' she said. She added that the area had long been viewed as a bit ''edgy'' because it has many industrial buildings and parking garages.
 Two New York hotel developers account for much of the building boom here: Sam Chang, the founder of the McSam Hotel Group, and John Lam, whose company is known as the Lam Group. This fall alone, the two developers plan to open five hotels within a one-block radius, on 39th Street and 40th Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues.
 Gene Kaufman, a prolific architect who has designed all five of these hotels, as well as many of the others planned for the garment district, said one significant attraction of the area had been the availability of inexpensive land.
 He said that Mr. Chang and Mr. Lam acquired most of their lots a few years ago, when land prices were low enough to enable them to build hotels for budget-conscious travelers. In fashionable neighborhoods, Mr. Kaufman said, developers had to build much more expensive hotels to justify the land acquisition costs.
 The Lam Group is building two hotels with a total of 500 rooms between Eighth and Ninth Avenues: a Sheraton Four Points at 326 West 40th Street and a Marriott Fairfield Inn at 330 West 40th Street.
 The McSam Group already has five hotels under construction that will add more than 1,000 hotel rooms to this area by next year.
 Gary Wisinski, the chief operating officer of McSam, said the company was planning two more hotels in the area. He said demolition had begun to make way for a 25-story, 188-room Hyatt Place at 52-54 West 36th Street, which is between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. The company has also applied for a demolition permit and a franchise license for a planned 14-story, 53-room hotel at 308 West 40th Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues.
 Mr. Wisinski said the group had not sought financing yet for either of those projects -- not because of the tighter credit markets -- but because the company usually waited to get building permits and franchise licenses before obtaining financing. He added that the company was conservative with debt, typically borrowing only 60 to 70 percent of the construction cost of a new hotel.
 Mr. Lam, a developer with a similar portfolio of midrange hotels, said he also had a conservative attitude toward debt. ''We only finance 50 percent to 60 percent'' of the construction cost of projects, ''even in higher times, when other companies did 90 percent,'' Mr. Lam said. 
 While many hotels planned for this area may still be just be a glimmer in a developer's eye, financing midrange hotel projects like these should be much easier than for larger upscale hotels, said Jeffrey Dauray, a senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis. 
 Mr. Dauray said that all hotels in this area might eventually benefit from the long-planned expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which is on 11th Avenue between 34th and 38th Streets. ''One doesn't need to build a convention hotel to benefit from that dynamic,'' he said.
 But he predicted that the hotels could be successful even without the Javits Center expansion or on the completion of two other potentially significant projects in the area: the redevelopment of the Hudson rail yards, and the extension of the No. 7 subway line to the Far West Side.
 Experts say there is a huge pent-up demand for hotel rooms under $300 a night anywhere in Manhattan. Occupancy rates have been at historic highs in recent years, according to Mr. Fox of PKF Consulting. He said that hotel occupancy rates in the city have been around 85 percent in the last three years, which was high even by New York standards. Over the last 40 years, he said, hotel occupancy rates in Manhattan have averaged about 76 percent.
 Mr. Fox predicted that occupancy rates would slip to the high 70 percent level in the next year or two, in part because of economic uncertainty, but also because of the new hotels that were expected to open by late next year. ''But relative to New York over the long term, that's not an issue,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Lam, left, chief executive of the Lam Group, has hired Gene Kaufman to design several hotels in the garment district.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%)

COMPANY: MCSAM HOTEL GROUP LLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



457 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 18, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 PRESIDENT OF ARGENTINA
 Addresses Economic Policies
 President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner of Argentina sought to cool mounting criticism over her economic policies, saying she would ask the Argentine congress to legitimize the system of export taxes that led to a three-month revolt by farmers. PAGE A5
 EARTHQUAKE'S DUBIOUS DEATH TOLL
 In the past few days, the updates on the rising numbers of dead and missing from the earthquake that struck Sichuan Province last month have all but stopped, frozen for now with grim precision at 69,172. Behind this seeming clarity, however, lies a far messier reality that the publicly available death toll is little more than a rough guess. PAGE A10 
 TROPIC TALE BECOMES A REALITY
 The plot to overthrow the government of Equatorial Guinea in 2004 was so improbable that it sounded like something out of a tale from the tropics, too outlandish even for Graham Greene. But as the trial of one of the accused men, Simon Mann, an old Etonian and veteran of Britain's elite Special Air Service, got under way in the tiny, oil-rich West African nation of Equatorial Guinea, fact has proved as strange as fiction, if not stranger. PAGE A5
 MUSLIM CLERIC IS RELEASED
 A London-based Muslim cleric who was known as Osama bin Laden's spiritual leader in Europe was released from a prison near London under severe restrictions, after a court decision that blocked his deportation to Jordan. The cleric, Abu Qatada, faces a 15-year prison term in Jordan and is also wanted in Spain for links to the 2004 Madrid transit bombings. PAGE A7
 FLOODS PERSIST IN RAVAGED CHINA
 Torrential rains that have caused some of the worst flooding in 50 years and have killed scores of people continued to batter a huge swath of southern China near one of the biggest manufacturing zones in the country. The floods are the latest in a series of powerful natural disasters to strike China this year. PAGE A10
 EXAMINING MATING CALL OF CHIMPS
 Biologists have long been puzzled by the distinctive calls made by female chimpanzees during sex, which can lure predators. To compensate for this hazard, the calls must confer a significant evolutionary advantage, but what? Researchers followed the lives of seven female chimps in search of the answer. PAGE A6
 Afghan Families Flee Town A9
 Case Against Marine Is Dismissed A9
 NATIONAL
 MARCH SAW LARGE JUMP
 In Illegal Immigrant Prosecutions
 A report by a nonpartisan research group said that criminal prosecutions of immigrants by federal authorities surged to a record in March. The immigration cases accounted for 57 percent of all new federal cases brought nationwide that month. The crackdown is part of an effort by the Bush administration, which has sought to show it is serious about enforcing immigration laws after immigration legislation supported by the president failed in Congress last June. PAGE A14
 THE MISSISSIPPI'S LOOMING WATERS
 The overflowing waters that swamped Iowa and Wisconsin have begun receding, and much of it has ended up in the Mississippi River. That prompted law enforcement officials to scramble and closely monitor the levees that line the river's shores in towns like Clarksville, Mo. Pam Myers and her sons were busy surrounding their house with a mound of sand, even as officials told them that the river could reach hip-high. ''I'll stay and fight her,'' she said of the Mississippi. ''I've got river in my blood.'' PAGE A13 
 SCALING BACK AT THE PUMP, SORT OF
 As fuel prices climb , more drivers are opting for regular or midgrade gasoline, even when they drive luxury cars or their manuals recommend premium. ''Even people with the high-end cars are cutting corners and using the cheaper stuff,'' said the manager of a Shell station in Hartford. ''It's got us constantly guessing how much to order.'' PAGE A14
 CRITICISM FOR THE NEW SAT TEST
 When the SAT test was redesigned three years ago to include a writing test, it was supposed to be a better predictor of college success. But according to studies released by the College Board, which owns the test, it does not do a better job at that than the old model and is still not as accurate an indicator as a student's high school grades. Critics of the new test say that if that is the best it can do, the extra time, expense and stress on students are not worth it. PAGE A19
 MINISTERING TO THE 18-WHEELERS
 The Rev. Shannon Rust is a lumbering man with an easy smile, and he hopes to save at least a few of the six million souls that pass through his quarter-mile strip in Breezewood, Pa. He is part of a growing religious presence at truck stops and rest areas nationally, with 230 of the areas reportedly boasting on-site chapels. ''They all have auto insurance,'' he said. ''I'm trying to tell them about soul insurance.'' PAGE A12
 Official's Conviction Overturned A12
 METRO
 JUDGE DISMISSES DEFAMATION SUIT 
 By Writer Against Clintons
 A judge threw out a lawsuit brought by Jared Paul Stern, a former New York Post gossip writer, against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Bill Clinton, The Daily News and others Mr. Stern accused of conspiring to ruin his reputation. In an 11-page decision granting the defendants' motion to dismiss the suit, the judge said that Mr. Stern failed to detail the precise statements and actions that he claimed were defamatory. PAGE B6
 DE NIRO PETITIONS LANDMARKS BOARD
 Robert De Niro asked the city's Landmark Preservation Commission to approve a penthouse atop his new Greenwich Hotel in TriBeCa -- part of a plea by the hotel's developers to legalize, or retroactively approve, additions and changes to the original design of the penthouse. ''It was a labor of love,'' he said. ''We've really worked quite hard on it, and so anything that would be offensive would be offensive to me.'' PAGE B4
 Advice for Willie Randolph C13
 BUSINESS
 A SITE FOR THE CUBICLE SET
 Picks Up Steam
 All the cool, younger people have flocked to MySpace or Facebook, giving LinkedIn, a social networking site for middle-aged professionals (average user age: 41) a distinct aura of unhipness. But the site is growing faster than its competitors, and has something neither of the other social networking giants has: profits. LinkedIn is scheduled to announce it has raised $53 million in capital, which values the company at $1 billion -- more than the $580 million News Corp. paid for MySpace in 2005. PAGE C1 
 TOUGH TIMES AT A CAR DEALERSHIP
 As Detroit automakers have restructured themselves, much of the pain has fallen onto the shoulders of car salespeople in near-empty automobile dealerships. Leonard J. Immke Jr., who runs a dealership in Columbus, Ohio, used to sell 200 new Buicks a month in the 1960s. Last month he sold 10, and as Detroit considers more changes, both he and his sales staff face uncertain futures. PAGE C1 
 PUSH FOR A STUDENT LOAN MEASURE
 Some lenders have stopped offering federal loans to students who attend community colleges and other institutions, citing low numbers of borrowers and small amounts borrowed at the schools. Patty Murray of Washington and Chris Dodd of Connecticut introduced legislation that would require those lenders to extend loans to all students. ''Denying loans based on school, program length, or income level locks the door for far too many,'' Mr. Dodd said. PAGE C1 
 ARTS
 A WORLD OF EXTREME WORK, 
 Beyond Issues of Class
 ''Black Gold'' is the latest series hatched by Thom Beers, whose shows ''Deadliest Catch,'' ''Ice Road Truckers,'' and ''Ax Men'' focus on the work lives of people whose jobs put them in constant danger. Ginia Bellafante writes that the shows avoid asking tough questions. ''What's at play is a tepid populism that lionizes hard work without taking palpable measure of corporate reward against all the frostbite and injury and sacrifice,'' she writes. PAGE E1
 WHEN POLONIUS STEALS THE SHOW
 Polonius is supposed to be the windbag in ''Hamlet,'' so when he (as inhabited by Sam Waterston) stares ahead glassily and silently for an uncomfortably long time -- a senior moment -- the audience feels a tender compassion for him that lasts until his death in the third act. Ben Brantley writes that Mr. Waterston's take on Polonius is a bright spot in an otherwise ''straightforward and easy-to-follow modern-dress interpretation.'' PAGE E1
 A SERIOUS DANCER'S JOKEY TURN
 The choreography of John Jasperse is usually tethered to adjectives like ''austere'' and ''stark,'' but his latest work, ''Pure,'' at the Reynolds Theater at Duke University was decidedly lighter. At one point, Mr. Jasperse appears with a microphone and proceeds to spend a few minutes trying to correctly execute a single pirouette, and offers the audience his auto-corrections after each attempt. (''Perhaps if I concentrate more on simply pulling up rather than turning.'') Still, Roslyn Sulcas writesthat the piece feels unfinished. PAGE E3
 PENTAGON TO CONSULT ACADEMICS
 The Pentagon's new initiative to combat security threats like the Chinese military, Iraq and terrorism is called Minerva, after the Roman goddess of wisdom, which may seem apt: the unusual program hopes to tap the brainpower and academics and social scientists. And while the idea has been met with excitement among some scholars, others worry that the Defense Department and the academy are getting too cozy. PAGE E1
 ABSURDITY FOR LUNCH
 The death of optimism on Wall Street: too soon? Not for the folks behind the dance-theater group behind ''The Miracle Show and the Death of OPTIMISM,'' which was performed around lunch time in the Manhattan's financial district during a recent workday. Claudia La Rocco says the dancers -- chanting lines like ''Happiness is a decision you must make'' and ''just because you take the L train does not make you cool'' -- threw themselves into the performance with gusto. PAGE E2
 A Prodigy's Approach to Criticism E7
 A Slimmed Down Diva in 'Ariadne' E5
 DINING
 NOTHING SEEMS TO HAVE CHANGED,
 Except for the Genders That Is
 Weddings. The stress. The gifts. The guests. The different sides of the families. Stress and tension abound, pressure rests heaviest on the guests of honor. In other words, business as usual. Or is it? California has begun to issue certificates for same-sex marriages and as a deluge of summer weddings approach, it's becoming clear that the details are familiar. And everybody from planners to caterers is enjoying the extra work. Page F1 
 EXTRA GARLIC, BUT HOLD THE CLOVE
 A meditation on garlic, and the use of two of its incarnations: green garlic, harvested before individual cloves form, and garlic scapes which are the flower shoots of the bulb itself. Sadly, a recent search for the delicacy in farmer's markets yielded only a ''Come back next year.'' But diners' patience is rewarded with dishes that take advantage of green garlic's juicy, musky sweetness, or using scapes to season vegetables or a dish made with soft-shell crab. Page F1 
 A QUEST COMES TO FRUITION
 John Driver, like Johnny Appleseed, has traveled the world for a love of fruit. But rather than planting he is collecting and he is concerned with apricots, not apples. He has thoroughly explored the world's seat of apricot growth in Central Asia and brought the seeds back, planting the trees grown from them, on his farm in the San Joaquin Valley of California in 2001. Now his crop, called CandyCots, are ready for harvest and should find their way to New York City in midsummer. Page F3 
 A Mexican Summer Closer to You F3 
 SPORTS
 MINAYA ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY
 For Decision to Fire Randolph
 In his first news conference since the firing of manager Willie Randolph, Omar Minaya, the Mets general manager, made a point to let the media know that the firing was his decision. It was he, after all, who hired Mr. Randolph, so it was also his decision to let him go. ''I decided that I had to have closure to this,'' Mr. Minaya said. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE D5
 OBITUARIES
 ESBJORN SVENSSON
 He was the leader of the jazz trio E.S.T., one of Europe's most popular ensembles, and composed genre-bending music that drew widely on influence like funk and hip-hop. The trio was slated to appear in New York as part of the JVC Jazz Festival, which was likely to end the act's anonymity in the United States. PAGE D8
 EDITORIALS
 MR. BUSH V. THE BILL OF RIGHTS
 President Bush and his allies are once again trying to scare Congress into expanding his powers to spy on Americans without a court order. PAGE A20
 A REAL SCHEDULE FOR GROUND ZERO
 Gov. David A. Paterson wants a real budget and timetable for rebuilding at ground zero. A fine idea, as long as it does not cost more and take longer. PAGE A20
 READING INTO THE FUTURE
 Eleanor Randolph, self-proclaimed technophobe, gets to know her Kindle, the electronic book-reader from Amazon.com. PAGE A20
 OP-ED
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Iraq is such an emotional topic that it is hard to have a sober discussion about it. As a result, what we do next in Iraq is barely getting discussed in the presidential campaign. That's too bad. PAGE A21
 CONTRIBUTOR:
 Yes, We Will Have No Bananas
 Bananas are becoming more expensive -- and they may one day be hard to find in the supermarket at all. In an Op-Ed, Dan Koeppel warns of a looming threat to America's most popular fruit. PAGE A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PRIMATES (85%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (77%); EARTHQUAKES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); WEATHER (73%); LITIGATION (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); FLOODS & FLOODING (68%); BIOLOGY (66%); ANIMAL COMMUNICATION (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); DEPORTATION (64%); EVOLUTION THEORY (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (57%); SICHUAN, CHINA (57%); SOUTH CHINA (53%) CHINA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



458 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Lag in Tech Growth, Study Says

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
Watching television, gaining access to the Internet and listening to music on mobile phones will be a viable business in the next few years, says a study by a consulting arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers. But while marketers and advertisers have much to cheer in the coming digital revolution, the fastest growth will be in emerging markets, with the United States lagging behind. 
 Overall global consumer spending both online and by mobile phones is expected to grow 21.8 percent annually, to $234 billion by 2012, according to the study which Pricewaterhouse expects to release Wednesday. By contrast, spending in the United States will grow at a rate of 16.1 percent, to $75 billion. The firm said there was more opportunity for Internet and mobile entertainment growth in countries like India and China because people there would use phones as a primary source of entertainment. 
 The good news is that traditional media companies like Time Warner and NBC Universal have less to fear from new media competitors. Stefanie Kane, a partner in the entertainment, media and communications consulting firm, said old media companies would be big players in the digital revolution.
 ''The world is not going to change dramatically,'' she said. ''The established media companies will dominate revenues for the future.''
 Of course, there will be some pain in the transition. Mobile and online advertising, which many had hoped would compensate for declines in traditional forms of print and broadcast advertising, has not grown as quickly as the industry has expected. And despite the colliding interests of Hollywood executives and technologists, the cultures are vastly different. ''They are coming to the realization that they have to work together,'' Ms. Kane said.
 Indeed, several companies are already testing relationships. Last December, Nokia and the Universal Music Group agreed to offer unlimited, free downloads of Universal songs to buyers of certain Nokia mobile phones. In January, CBS and TiVo, which makes digital video recorders, entered into a research partnership to figure out how to better advertise to consumers.
 Partnerships, whatever the form, could not come soon enough. Worldwide mobile television subscriptions are expected to grow fivefold to $19 billion, by 2012 compared with $408 million last year, Pricewaterhouse said. The United States is expected to make up $2.1 billion of that 2012 figure. And Pricewaterhouse expects that the online and mobile music distribution will surpass physical distribution by 2011, although music downloaded over the Internet is expected to grow at a greater percentage than music delivered over mobile phones.
 Stock analysts expect media companies to benefit from the proliferation of so-called smartphones, like the BlackBerry or iPhone, which are minicomputers that consumers carry in their pockets. Of interest to many consumers is using the Internet while on the go. Spending here is expected to grow. According to Pricewaterhouse, both home computer and mobile Internet access in the United States will increase to $69.3 billion in the next five years, from $41.3 billion in 2007. The firm said it did not separate the two categories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE MEDIA (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (68%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (73%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (53%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (53%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (53%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (73%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (73%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



459 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Northwest Plans More Fleet Cutbacks

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Northwest Airlines said Tuesday that it planned to eliminate more planes from its fleet, including Boeing, Airbus and McDonnell Douglas jets, by the end of December, its second cut in capacity this year. 
 The airline attributed the reductions, the latest by a major airline, to the record price of jet fuel, which has nearly doubled in the last year. 
 Northwest will ground 14 Boeing 757 and Airbus jets during the final three months of 2008. It also said that only 61 of its aging DC-9 jets would remain in its fleet by the end of December. It had 94 DC-9s at the beginning of 2008, and 103 a year ago. 
 Over all, Northwest is reducing its domestic and international flying by up to 9.5 percent, the airline said in the regulatory filing. In its previous round of cuts, announced in April, Northwest said it would reduce flying capacity by about 7 percent this year.
 Northwest's chief executive, Douglas M. Steenland, said the airline did not plan to eliminate any cities from its schedule. 
 ''We expect to accomplish this with fewer frequencies,'' Mr. Steenland said in an interview, referring to the number of flights the airline operates to a particular city each day.
 Some jobs will be cut as a result of the flight reductions, but the airline did not say how many. Northwest said it hoped the reductions would come through buyouts and voluntary retirement programs.
 Northwest had already announced plans to reduce its DC-9 jets, but it had not specified whether it would retire them or simply idle them in hopes that traffic would strengthen. But Mr. Steenland said Tuesday that the airline had decided to ground them.
 Airlines have been hurt by the rise in the price of jet fuel, which is up 83.6 percent in 12 months, according to the International Air Transport Association. Several carriers, including American, Continental, Delta and United have announced plans to retire planes and eliminate flights.
 They are also raising fares, imposing fuel surcharges and adding fees, like a $15 charge for checking bags that has been or will be put in place by American, United and US Airways.
 The rise in jet fuel ''is significantly increasing the cost structure'' for the airlines, Mr. Steenland said. ''It puts us and others in a position where we need to pass through those costs to our customers.''
 He acknowledged that the fare increases, charges and fees would deter some passengers from flying. ''As costs get passed through and fares go up, there will be a reduction in travel,'' Mr. Steenland said. ''The number of seats is going to be reduced.'' 
 In April, Northwest and Delta agreed to merge in a deal that would create the nation's biggest airline, ahead of American. The two airlines hope to receive federal approval by the end of the year.
 Both airlines filed for Chapter 11 protection in 2005, when fuel prices spiked in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. 
 Mr. Steenland said his airline did not anticipate making more capacity cuts in 2008. But he said, ''If things change we'll have to respond. At these fuel prices, you watch every drop.''
 Northwest shares rose 18 cents, to $6.78 in regular trading before the latest cuts were announced.
 Service Cuts at Air Canada
 Air Canada, citing higher fuel prices, said it would eliminate about 2,000 of its 28,000 jobs. 
 Via e-mail, John Reber, a spokesman for the airline, said the company was meeting with its unions in a bid to ''minimize involuntary layoffs, while allowing the company to meet the required cost reduction targets.'' 
 To enable lower staff levels, the airline is planning to reduce its overall seat capacity over the autumn and winter seasons. 
 The biggest reductions will be a 13 percent cut in flights between Canada and the United States. By contrast, domestic capacity will drop by only 2 percent, an indication of Canada's still-robust economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Northwest jet above the Detroit airport. Record fuel prices have led the airline to reduce its flying capacity for a second time this year. The reductions will be completed by December.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIICHIRO SATO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); JET FUEL (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (85%); AIRBUS SAS (85%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



460 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Senator Viewed Mortgage Treatment as a 'Courtesy'

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut said Tuesday that he was aware that Countrywide Financial Corporation had assigned him to a V.I.P. program in 2003 when he refinanced mortgages on his homes in Connecticut and Washington but that he and his wife ''assumed'' that ''it was more of a courtesy thing.'' 
 Mr. Dodd insisted that they did not get favorable pricing. 
 As the Senate prepared to take up legislation intended to rescue homeowners at the brink of foreclosure, Mr. Dodd, a Democrat and chairman of the banking committee, defended himself against suggestions that he had received preferential treatment from Countrywide. At a tense news conference, he flatly denied seeking or receiving any discount from the lender.
 But his concession that he never inquired or even wondered whether his special status with Countrywide might be related to his position as a senator prompted a barrage of new questions about the terms of his mortgages and about exactly what he knew and when he knew it. 
 ''Somebody told you you were in a V.I.P. program,'' a reporter said, ''And you didn't think you were getting ... ''
 Mr. Dodd cut off the reporter and finished the question himself. ''A special deal on a loan?'' the senator asked. ''No.'' 
 Another Democrat, Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, has admitted receiving preferential treatment from Countrywide on mortgages for a vacation house in Bethany Beach, Del., and an apartment building in Bismarck, N.D., but he said he was unaware of favoritism until a report last week on Portfolio.com questioned the terms of the loan. 
 Mr. Conrad announced that he had made a donation of $10,700 to Habitat for Humanity -- the amount he saved by getting a one-point discount on fees related to a $1.07 million loan for the beach house. 
 Mr. Conrad had said he would refinance the apartment building loan and on Tuesday said the loan had been paid off. 
 Mr. Dodd said he had no intention of taking similar steps. ''Well, I don't know we did anything wrong here,'' he said. ''I negotiated a mortgage at a prevailing rate, a competitive rate. If anyone had said to me, 'We're giving you some special treatment here,' I would have rejected it. So no, I don't feel at this point that I have any obligation. I did what I was supposed to do. I did what millions of other people did.'' 
 Portfolio.com cited internal Countrywide e-mail messages indicating that the lender had reduced the interest rate on both of Mr. Dodd's loans by half a percentage point, a discount that potentially could save him tens of thousands of dollars over the life of the loans. 
 The questions about the mortgages threatened to overshadow the foreclosure rescue legislation and, as some Republicans pressed for a more aggressive inquiry, Senate Democrats delayed consideration of the bill. 
 (A spokesman for the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said that details were still being worked out on some tax provisions in the bill.) 
 Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, chairman of the Republican Study Committee, called for hearings on Monday. ''We must ensure that no member is inappropriately benefiting from their position,'' Mr. Hensarling wrote in a letter seeking support for hearings. 
 Mr. Conrad said Tuesday that the Senate ethics committee had begun looking into the loans. ''I welcome it,'' he said. ''My conscience is absolutely clear.'' 
 Mr. Dodd said that he was a longtime customer of Countrywide and refinanced the mortgages on his homes in 2003 after shopping for the best deal. Ultimately, he obtained a five-year adjustable rate loan at 4.25 percent for his house in Washington and a 10-year adjustable rate loan at 4.5 percent for his house in East Haddam, Conn. 
 Mr. Dodd rented a house in Iowa, where he lived last year while seeking the Democratic presidential nomination.
 He said the interest rates on his refinanced mortgages were slightly lower than he was quoted initially because rates had declined generally before the loans closed. 
 In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Conrad said that when he bought his beach house in 2002, he was determined not to be treated unfairly as he believed he had been while getting a loan for a different property years earlier. 
 He said he called a close friend, James A. Johnson, who had recently stepped down as the chairman and chief executive of Fannie Mae. Mr. Johnson was forced to give up an advisory role with the presidential campaign of Senator Barack Obama following suggestions that he got special treatment from Countrywide.
 When Mr. Conrad called, Mr. Johnson was with Angelo Mozilo, chief executive of Countrywide. Mr. Conrad said Mr. Johnson handed the phone to Mr. Mozilo, who gave him the name of a loan officer. Mr. Conrad said he never talked to Mr. Mozilo again.
 He said he did not find it unusual to be talking to a chief executive of a lending company about a mortgage because he did that even before he was in the Senate. 
 ''Ten of the 12 mortgages I got were in North Dakota and in every one of those instances I talked with the No. 1 or No. 2 person,'' he said. ''I don't know what I would've done differently.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd on Tuesday answered questions about two loans from Countrywide Financial Corporation, but he denied seeking or receiving any discount from the lender. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); FORECLOSURE (77%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (91%); KENT CONRAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



461 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words

 BODY:
FOREIGN INVESTMENT As labor costs in China soar, a number of multinational corporations are establishing or expanding Asian bases outside China, particularly in Vietnam. 
 NO MORE CHERRY-PICKING Democratic Senators Patty Murray, below, and Christopher J. Dodd introduced a legislative proposal that would make lenders that participate in the federal student loan program extend credit to any eligible student. [C1.] 
 HIGH RISK Credit default swaps are playing an important role in whether MBIA will be allowed to back out on a promise to bolster its insurance unit with $900 million in cash. [C1.]
 SHRINKING DEALERSHIPS As Detroit automakers have undertaken painful overhauls in recent years, the ranks of the dealer network are thinning. [C1.]
 BUILDING A NETWORK LinkedIn, the social network for professionals, will announce it has raised $53 million in capital, valuing the company at $1 billion. [C1.]
 BRITISH INFLATION Consumer prices in Britain rose 3.3 percent in May from a year earlier, accelerating to the highest level in more than 10 years. [C2.]
 POSITIVE RESULTS A potential product that the drug maker Wyeth is testing under the company's so-called war on Alzheimer's disease shows promise in clinical studies. [C2.]
 INVESTMENT BANK SHINES Goldman Sachs reported a modest 11 percent decline in second-quarter earnings, beating Wall Street's estimates. [C4.]
 TRADE TALKS In talks with the United States, China pointedly notes that it has learned lessons about openness from America's regulatory missteps on subprime mortgages. [C4.]
 CUTTING SERVICE Blaming the record price of jet fuel, Northwest Airlines said it would ground more planes from its fleet by the end of the year. [C4.]
 DIGITAL REVOLUTION The fastest growth in consumer spending online and on mobile phones will be in emerging markets, with the United States lagging, according to a study. [C7.]
 EADS INQUIRY A former chief operating officer of European Aeronautic Defense and Space was detained by French Authorities in connection with an insider trading investigation. [C8.]
 'FAMILY' FRIENDLY Big brands like Coca-Cola, Subway and White Castle are borrowing characters from ''Family Guy'' for their marketing efforts. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AIRLINES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING (68%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); INSIDER TRADING (65%); FUEL MARKETS (65%); JET FUEL (64%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (52%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (81%); PFIZER INC (69%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%); COCA-COLA CO (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); EAD (PAR) (81%); EAD (MCE) (81%); PFZ (LSE) (69%); PFEB (BRU) (69%); PFE (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (72%); PATTY MURRAY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



462 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: McCain Showcases His Environmental Side

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Senator John McCain of Arizona began running this commercial on Tuesday on cable news and in closely contested states like Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania, where his advertisements have been running for the past couple of weeks. 
 PRODUCER McCain campaign.
 ON THE SCREEN The spot opens with a frenetic series of images of industry and nature: Smoke stacks and mountains, traffic and streams and, finally, a huge, orange setting sun. It then shows Mr. McCain at a lectern with an image of a newspaper headline -- ''McCain Climate Views Clash with G.O.P.'' -- below him and in the background. It then shows images of alternative energy sources -- wind turbines, a solar panel -- before switching to a shot of Mr. McCain standing on a mountain. Before the commercial ends with the standard candidate approval, it flashes a new slogan against the bright blue sky beside Mr. McCain, ''Reform. Prosperity. Peace.'' 
 THE SCRIPT A female announcer says, ''John McCain stood up to the president and sounded the alarm on global warming five years ago. Today, he has a realistic plan that will curb greenhouse gas emissions. A plan that will help grow our economy and protect our environment. Reform. Prosperity. Peace. John McCain.'' Mr. McCain says, ''I'm John McCain, and I approve this message.''
 ACCURACY In 2003 Mr. McCain joined with Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, then a Connecticut Democrat, to draft a bill requiring industries to cut emissions of carbon dioxide. The White House frowned on the bill, and it did not win Senate approval. Mr. McCain has also joined with Democrats in supporting the idea of a system allowing power plants and other industrial polluters to buy credits from more efficient producers that fall well below limits on emitting heat-trapping gases. But Democrats and some environmentalists have criticized him for missing votes on bills setting stricter fuel standards and for opposing incentives devised to promote energy conservation and the development of energy alternatives, like the wind turbines and solar panels shown in this commercial. (Mr. McCain's campaign did not respond to requests for comment on those criticisms on Tuesday, but he has generally favored market approaches to foster energy alternatives.)
 SCORECARD This spot does a good job promoting a major policy difference between Mr. McCain and President Bush (not to mention most of the rest of his party.) Promoting that rift could certainly help increase Mr. McCain's appeal to the independent voters over whom he and Senator Barack Obama are expected to fight intensely this fall. But his call this week to lift the federal moratorium on oil and gas exploration and give individual states the right to decide if they wanted to allow drilling off their coasts, which is also being considered by Mr. Bush and is not highlighted in this commercial, may undercut its message. Regardless, the spot, with its ''reform, prosperity, peace'' tagline, is decidedly more upbeat than Mr. McCain's last commercial, which was somber in tone and focused on war. 
 JIM RUTENBERG 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); WIND POWER PLANTS (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (87%); LEGISLATION (86%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); POWER PLANTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); APPROVALS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (66%); OIL EXPLORATION (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



463 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Three Questions For McCain

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A week before Pennsylvania's Democratic primary -- in April, back when Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama were still the big story -- John McCain traveled to Pittsburgh to remind everyone how different his economic agenda would be from theirs. 
 In a speech that day, he said he would abolish the dreaded alternative minimum tax. He said he would also allow companies to write off spending on new equipment more quickly than they now could, effectively reducing their taxes. Most ambitiously, he vowed to set up a simpler income tax system, one that anyone could voluntarily use instead of the current tangle. In the months since then, Mr. McCain has repeated these vows.
 Fast forward to last week, when a Washington research group called the Tax Policy Center set out to estimate the budgetary effects of Mr. McCain's and Mr. Obama's plans, after having talked with the campaigns about the details. Almost immediately, the center's report became the yardstick that journalists and bloggers used. 
 To anyone who has been following the campaign closely, however, there were some strange things in the report's summary. The alternative minimum tax? Mr. McCain apparently no longer wants to abolish it. The write-off for corporate equipment? It exists for a few years, but then it disappears. The simple new tax system? Gone. 
 I'll dig into the details in a moment, but suffice it to say that there are some big unanswered questions about Mr. McCain's economic plans. And we in the media have largely overlooked those questions so far. On foreign policy, pundits have rightly pointed out that Mr. Obama will have to get more specific about his Iraq plans, given the recent improvements there. But on fiscal policy, the coverage has generally treated the candidates as equally bad. 
 As the conventional wisdom has it, neither senator has been serious about the long-term budget deficit; both have made rosy assumptions about the revenue that will come from cracking down on waste, fraud, abuse, overseas tax loopholes and other vague fiscal bogeymen. 
 All this is true enough. Mr. Obama, for instance, relies on hypothetical savings from electronic medical records to claim that he can reduce the deficit, and he hasn't been totally clear about his tax plans. But the unknowns about the McCain agenda are simply on a different scale. 
 So far, Mr. McCain is having it both ways. On the campaign trail, he has sounded like a bold tax cutter. To budget wonks, though, his campaign has gingerly inched away from those plans, saying details will be forthcoming. In the meantime, the most-cited analysis of his proposed budget doesn't square with what he is saying on the stump.
 Here, then, are three questions that I hope Mr. McCain will answer soon:
 No. 1: Are you really going to eliminate the alternative minimum tax?
 This tax, known as the A.M.T., was enacted in 1969 to prevent the very rich from claiming so many deductions that they avoided paying taxes. But because the A.M.T. wasn't indexed to inflation, it has begun to ensnare more people. If the law isn't changed, one in four households will pay the tax this year.
 Mr. McCain, in speeches, is perfectly clear about what he wants to do: ''Abolish the A.M.T.,'' as he said to a conservative group. Yet his campaign told the Tax Policy Center that ''Senator McCain does not plan to repeal the individual A.M.T.'' 
 So what's going on here?
 In the fine print of his plan, he doesn't abolish the tax. Instead, he ''patches'' it, so that it would continue to apply to roughly the same number of households as it did last year -- about one out of every 30. (Mr. Obama's A.M.T. proposal isn't so different.) The trick is that no one would actually pay the tax under the McCain plan. As Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a campaign adviser, explained to me, anyone hit by the A.M.T. could opt into Mr. McCain's voluntary, simplified tax system, where their taxes would be lower. 
 Of course, no matter what it's called, an effective elimination of the A.M.T. will cost the government a lot of money -- about $60 billion a year. As a point of comparison, the entire deficit is projected to be $300 billion a year during the next president's first term.
 No. 2:Are you serious about tax simplification? 
 If I told you that you could choose between two different set of tax rules, I'm guessing that you would pick the one that required you to pay less in taxes. Such a system, then, would have to cost the Treasury a good bit of cash. It's inherent.
 Fred Thompson, during his brief campaign, proposed a system along these lines, and the Tax Policy Center estimated that it would have increased the deficit by some $600 billion a year. ''It would be the largest tax cut ever, by a large margin,'' said the center's director, Len Burman (who, I should add, has been careful to note what his calculations do and do not include).
 The McCain campaign says its proposal won't be the same as Mr. Thompson's, but the two certainly are similar. Mr. Holtz-Eakin is responsible for coming up with the details, he said, and he is under orders ''to make it revenue neutral.'' That means the plan will pay for itself -- that it will include tax increases to offset the reductions. When Mr. McCain describes those increases, you'll know he's serious about tax simplification.
 No. 3: Are you going to use gimmicks to make your numbers add up?
 In 2001, President Bush signed a 10-year tax cut with a novel feature. In the final years of the cut -- 2009 through 2011 -- it began disappearing, making the cost look smaller than it otherwise would have. Now that those final years have arrived, however, Mr. Bush argues that Congress should restore the tax cut. 
 Mr. McCain agrees. To do otherwise would amount to an economically damaging tax increase, he says. Once a tax has been cut, in other words, it should not rise again. 
 Yet his campaign agenda includes one of these same sunset provisions (which wasn't apparent until the Tax Policy Center analysis came out). The new rule on corporate deductions for equipment lasts only until 2013, when the old rule -- with its higher taxes -- returns. This gimmick, obviously, helps reduces the proposal's apparent cost. 
 The most disconcerting part of these contradictions is that Mr. McCain could legitimately run as a fiscal conservative, willing to tell hard truths. He has consistently opposed wasteful earmarks. He voted against the pork-laden farm bill last month, while Mr. Obama voted for it. Unlike Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain isn't proposing more than $200 billion a year in new spending, on health care and the like.
 The Obama campaign claims it can pay for all this, and even reduce the deficit, through tax increases and spending cuts. I think a more skeptical look at its budget leaves you worried it may add something like $50 billion a year to the deficit. But applying the same arched brow to Mr. McCain's stated plans leaves you worried that he will add $200 billion or $300 billion or, depending on his voluntary tax system, even more. 
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin told me that a McCain administration would balance the budget and that, in time, the campaign would make the details clear. ''It's just June,'' he said. Fair enough. But Mr. McCain's own words have left him a very big fiscal hole to fill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); TAX REFORM (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); INCOME TAX (55%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (52%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (50%); MEDICAL RECORDS (50%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



464 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tells China Subprime Woes Are No Reason to Keep Markets Closed

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

 BODY:
Bush administration economic officials, frustrated over the pace of change in China, warned Chinese leaders Tuesday not to let American regulatory failures in the subprime mortgage crisis become an excuse for not deregulating Chinese markets and opening them to foreign investment.
 The American appeal was made at the opening of two days of talks at the United States Naval Academy focused on easing economic tensions over trade, food, product safety and other issues. 
 ''The United States and China don't always agree on economic issues,'' said Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., opening the discussions on a day of sunshine and soft breezes at the center of the naval campus on the Severn River. ''Sometimes we may even disagree quite strongly. But we keep talking.''
 Almost immediately, despite the bucolic setting, the talks produced a sharp disagreement over the lessons from the current global financial crisis.
 In the latest sign of Chinese willingness to criticize the Bush administration, Zhou Xiaochuan, minister of the Peoples Bank of China, the country's central bank, said pointedly that this was the first time since the semiannual talks began in 2006 that China needed to learn from American mistakes as well as its successes.
 Mr. Zhou said that the Chinese had listened intently to a presentation on the American economic situation from Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, on what was being done to overcome the recent credit turmoil.
 After hearing from Mr. Bernanke and others about efforts by American companies to recover from the crisis, Mr. Zhou said he was impressed that many shaky American financial companies had increased their capitalization in recent months, as both Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson had urged them to do. 
 The American side did not give any details on Mr. Bernanke's presentation, but Mr. Zhou said the overall session was ''something we have never experienced before,'' in that the discussion focused on the ''inadequacy of regulations'' governing subprime mortgages and other complex financial products.
 The implication taken away by the American side was that he was telling them that deregulating Chinese financial markets, as demanded by Wall Street and the Bush administration, might bring unwelcome consequences.
 American delegates cautioned that China would be wrong to slow its deregulation of financial markets or to ease up on opening them to foreign investment, said Alan F. Holmer, special envoy for China under Secretary Paulson, who is leading the American side in the talks.
 ''There are lessons to be learned from the economic developments in the U.S.,'' said Mr. Holmer, adding that ''there would be significant costs to China if they were to slow down with respect to their financial sector liberalization.''
 The slowness of China's moves to open up its economy to investment by American financial services, from insurance to credit cards, has frustrated Mr. Paulson and others in the Bush administration for years. American officials now say the Chinese are citing the failure to regulate subprime mortgages as a reason for not moving faster.
 Mr. Zhou also charged -- as have other Chinese recently -- that the declining value of the dollar in relationship to other currencies, including the yuan, was contributing to rising prices for oil, food and other commodities throughout the world.
 Blaming the decline of the dollar -- and by extension blaming low interest rates in the United States, which are driving investments to other currencies -- is an argument increasingly being heard as Mr. Paulson has traveled in the Middle East, Europe and East Asia.
 American officials said that Mr. Paulson again rejected the argument, saying that high oil and food prices reflected the fundamental imbalance of supply and demand for both.
 On another point of contention with China, Michael O. Leavitt, secretary of health and human services, said some progress had been made in pressing China to upgrade safety inspections of exports of food, drugs and other products. He said China would soon agree to open offices for American food and product safety inspections in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou.
 But the top Chinese product safety official, Li Changjiang, said China would not open up offices for the Americans until the United States agreed to expand the Chinese embassy to include safety inspectors from China based in the United States.
 ''We have yet to receive the final go-ahead from the U.S. authorities on this matter,'' he said.
 The two sides agreed to set up a framework to discuss environmental and energy cooperation, specifically to improve joint efforts on clean air, water, energy generation, transportation and conservation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wang Qishan, a Chinese vice premier, and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson after opening remarks to begin cabinet-level talks at Annapolis on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); NAVIES (71%); PRODUCT SAFETY (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (55%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES OF HAWAII INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (57%)

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (88%) MARYLAND USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



465 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: New Look Is Planned for Pier 17 at the South Street Seaport

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Conceding the failure of the South Street Seaport pier as a ''festival marketplace'' -- these days, it is not much more than a waterfront mall -- its owners plan to replace it with a mixed-use project including a 42-story, 495-foot apartment and hotel tower, wrapped in a terra-cotta exoskeleton and rising from new pilings in the East River.
 Though other high-profile developments along the East River have foundered, most notably Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum and Santiago Calatrava's apartment tower of stacked cubes, the seaport plan speaks to the undiminished allure of riverfront sites and of developers' faith that megaprojects can inject new life into, and create profit out of, areas where other visions have failed.
The project also amounts to an abandonment of the original vision for Pier 17, which the Rouse Company opened to much fanfare in 1985. It now feels like a run-down, sometimes eerily unpopulated attraction to which its neighbors seldom venture. 
 ''We need to change what the South Street Seaport means in New Yorkers' minds,'' said Michael H. McNaughton, vice president of asset management at General Growth Properties, which bought the Rouse Company in 2004 and now controls the seaport retail space. ''It is going to change dramatically from a place where people in tourist buses buy Yankee T-shirts and bonsai trees.''
 There are those who say that General Growth, and Rouse before it, brought on their own troubles at Pier 17. A lawsuit against the developers by 18 retail tenants -- stores and restaurants -- is now working its way through State Supreme Court in Manhattan. ''We're sort of in their way,'' said a lawyer for the tenants, Richard B. Feldman, of Rosenberg Feldman Smith.
 The tenants have charged Rouse and General Growth with failing to market, promote and maintain the seaport; with allowing the Pier 17 building to fall into disrepair through lack of maintenance; and with cutting back on the security staff.
 ''They were, it seems, deliberately allowing the seaport and Pier 17 to deteriorate in order to move out the tenants so as to have a clear field to redevelop the pier,'' said John O'Kelly, the lawyer who represented tenants in earlier cases.
 Mr. McNaughton responded: ''In this rent dispute, dating back to the days of Rouse, this group of tenants has had significant claims dismissed by the courts. We believe all of their claims are baseless.''
 General Growth, based in Chicago, would build the 42-story tower at the foot of Pier 17, on the site of two buildings once occupied by the Fulton Fish Market: the Tin Building, from the 19th century, which would be moved to the end of Pier 17, and a more recent market building, which would be razed.
 On Pier 17, in place of the three-level shopping center that now covers almost the entire pier, General Growth would build a cluster of two-story retail buildings and a four- and six-story hotel, wrapped in an esplanade and crisscrossed by a grid of walkways, many of the paths meeting at a plaza in the middle of the pier, in front of the restored and relocated Tin Building.
 ''Even though we're known as a mall company, this is unquestionably a site that is a candidate for de-malling,'' Mr. McNaughton said. ''With the Fulton Fish Market moving away, it gave us a wonderful opportunity for a blank canvas. When the project was built, there wasn't a community to connect to. There is now.''
 It remains to be seen how receptive that community will be to a project that includes a tower over water, dominating many vistas of the East River waterfront. There are numerous regulatory hurdles for the project to clear at the federal, state and city levels. General Growth is attempting a Manhattan debut in an unsteady economy, with a complex project that would tax even the most experienced New York developer. Mr. McNaughton declined to estimate the cost.
 Deputy Mayor Robert C. Lieber said the Bloomberg administration strongly supported the project as an extension of its own efforts to revitalize Lower Manhattan, to link downtown's East and West Sides along Fulton Street and to invigorate the underused East River waterfront.
 ''The South Street Seaport represents a great location to accommodate and capture that kind of growth,'' Mr. Lieber said.
 The city leases the pier and the inland portion of the South Street Seaport retail complex to General Growth.
 Allowing that there would be ''a lot of conversations'' and probably some modifications before the project could be approved by all the regulatory bodies involved, Mr. Lieber said, ''We're optimistic it's going to get done.''
 The president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, Elizabeth H. Berger, praised the project for the views it would open from inland blocks, especially along Beekman Street; the creation of both open space and retail space; and the contemporary quality of the architecture -- ''not some Disneyfied version of what South Street may have looked like at one time.''
 Maggie Boepple, the president of the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, applauded the creation of spaces that would be available for dance performances and other artistic programs. (She was also quick to note that a General Growth executive was about to join the council's board.)
 Ms. Boepple allowed that the tower would be big and that building it directly over the river was not necessarily in the best interest of overall planning. But, she said: ''From their perspective, they have to make money. From my perspective -- in moving the Tin Building to the end of the pier, creating the piazzas and respecting the historic district, I think that mitigates that.''
 The project is designed by SHoP Architects, which is also working on the overall plan to redevelop the East River waterfront. Gregg Pasquarelli, a principal, said that approval would be needed for the tower, which would otherwise be limited by the city's zoning rules to 350 feet.
 ''We felt the important thing was to make it as slender as possible,'' Mr. Pasquarelli said, adding that the tower would not block views of the Brooklyn Bridge for any current downtown residents.
 Mr. Pasquarelli said the design of the buildings was inspired by ships' rigging, cables, wharves, dry docks, sails, masts and spars. The intent of the exoskeleton and of the alternating building volumes within it, he said, was to lessen the sense of bulk.
 Mr. McNaughton said the project would essentially take the bulk of the Pier 17 mall and stand it upright, thereby freeing a good deal of space on the pier and ''giving it back to the community.''
 Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, predicted a ''very challenging land-use process.'' He declined to take a position one way or another before hearing from constituents.
 But speaking of the seaport, he added, ''I do think it's time that we took something that is right out of the '80s and bring it into the 21st century.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering of part of the mixed-use development that would replace the current mall on Pier 17.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHOP ARCHITECTS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); RETAILERS (65%); LITIGATION (64%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%)

COMPANY: GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (94%)

TICKER: GGP (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (94%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (94%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010



466 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Gifted Programs Are Less Diverse

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN and ROBERT GEBELOFF

 BODY:
When New York City set a uniform threshold for admission to public school gifted programs last fall, it was a crucial step in a prolonged effort to equalize access to programs that critics complained were dominated by white middle-class children whose parents knew how to navigate the system. 
 The move was controversial, with experts warning that standardized tests given to young children were heavily influenced by their upbringing and preschool education, and therefore biased toward the affluent. 
 Now, an analysis by The New York Times shows that under the new policy, children from the city's poorest districts were offered a smaller percentage than last year of the entry-grade gifted slots in elementary schools. Children in the city's wealthiest districts captured a greater share of the slots. 
 The disparity is so stark that some gifted programs opened by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in an effort to increase opportunities in poor and predominantly minority districts will not fill new classes next year. In three districts, there were too few qualifiers to fill a single class.
 The new policy relied on a blunt cutoff score on two standardized tests. According to the analysis, 39.2 percent of the students who made the cutoff live in the four wealthiest districts, covering the Upper East Side, the Upper West Side, Staten Island and northeast Queens. That is up from 24.9 percent last year, even though those districts make up 14.2 percent of citywide enrollment in the entry-level grades: kindergarten or first grade, depending on the district. 
 Students in 14 districts where the poverty rate is more than 75 percent account for more than a third of enrollment but received only 14.6 percent of the offers for spots in gifted programs this year, down from 20.2 percent last year.
 The results reflect a head-on collision of two key themes in the Bloomberg administration's overhaul of the school system. On the one hand, the city has centralized and standardized admissions procedures, including those for pre-kindergarten and high school, to even the playing field and eliminate any advantage held by certain parents. 
 On the other hand, the administration is intent on ensuring equal access to the system's most coveted offerings and closing the racial achievement gap, which Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein frequently refers to as a critical front in the civil rights battle.
 ''Clearly nobody in the Department of Education wanted this to happen, but they should have known that it would,'' said James H. Borland, a professor at Columbia University's Teachers College who studies gifted education. ''The idea that somehow making this totally reliant on tests would be an improvement, it's mind-boggling.'' 
 Joseph S. Renzulli, director of the University of Connecticut's National Research Center on the Gifted and Talented, who was a consultant to a city task force on the gifted, said he admired the chancellor's intentions but felt that children should be judged against others in their neighborhoods, not by a citywide cutoff. 
 ''I've discussed this with the chancellor and the chancellor's people, and it just doesn't seem to register,'' he said. ''I want the smartest or most creative kids in Red Hook or the South Bronx.''
 Education officials defended their revamping of the system, saying they had introduced fairness and transparency. 
 ''Of course we wanted to have programs in every district for all the students,'' said Anna Commitante, who oversees the city's gifted and talented programs. ''We implemented the eligibility criteria, it didn't shake out that way and now we have to take another look at it.'' 
 Officials said that it was ''very likely'' that the same policy would apply next year but that they would try to broaden the applicant pool. They said judging students against others in their districts was difficult in a city like New York, where children move frequently.
 Education officials noted that last year, they swept away a jumble of locally run admissions systems that befuddled or shut out many parents, and required all applicants to undergo the same two evaluations. But last year, there was no citywide cutoff, so available seats were distributed to the top scorers in each district. Some districts that had many spots or few applicants welcomed children with very low scores.
 ''We just kept going down the list,'' Ms. Commitante said.
 School districts nationwide are struggling to make gifted programs more racially and economically diverse. 
 The Miami-Dade public schools have spent more than $6 million over two years to identify more gifted and advanced students from what officials described as ''traditionally under-represented groups.'' Some districts are rethinking gifted programs under pressure; last year, the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California threatened to sue the Tustin school district, saying that Latino and black students were ''grossly underrepresented'' in the programs.
 The topic is also luring researchers. A study by Sean F. Reardon, of Stanford University, found that the achievement gap between white and black students grew faster among those who enter kindergarten with high skill levels. At Yale, researchers are devising a test that they hope could identify a more diverse gifted population.
 The Times's analysis did not consider racial or demographic information for individual children who were offered gifted spots, because the Education Department said it was not available. The department also said it did not have comprehensive data about how many students in each district were offered gifted spots in previous years. 
 For years, middle-class parents in some districts have clung to gifted programs as a refuge from low-performing schools. The racial composition of the programs has been a flashpoint since the 1990s, when complaints by the reform group Acorn and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund prompted a federal civil rights investigation. 
 In 2005, his re-election year, Mr. Bloomberg vowed to expand gifted programs into neighborhoods that did not have them, and has since opened more than three dozen new programs. There are now 121 elementary school gifted programs citywide.
 Still, the chancellor was dissatisfied with the varying admissions criteria. After requiring last year's applicants to take the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test, or Olsat, a reasoning exam, and be assessed by teachers through the Gifted Rating Scales, Mr. Klein replaced the scales this year with the Bracken School Readiness Assessment, which was considered more objective. He also set a uniform cutoff of the 95th percentile, as measured nationwide, on the combined score. There were so few top scorers that the city lowered the cutoff to the 90th percentile. A higher threshold still applied to three more selective citywide programs. 
 Citywide, fewer children qualified this year than last. This was disproportionately so in districts with a higher poverty rate, measured by eligibility for free lunch.
 In District 6, in Upper Manhattan, where 85.5 percent of students are eligible for free lunch, 160 children were offered slots in gifted kindergarten classes last year. This year, only 50 qualified. Therefore, the district's share of entry-grade offers declined to 2.2 percent of the city total, from 4.1 percent last year. 
 ''They're trying to push Hispanic kids and minority kids away from gifted program,'' said Judith Amaro, a parent leader in District 6. 
 In District 3, which includes the Upper West Side, 310 students qualified for kindergarten gifted slots for next year, down from 440 who were offered slots last year. But this year, District 3 students made up a larger share of city students offered slots -- 13.4 percent, up from 11.4 percent last year.
 Thousands more children opted for gifted testing this year than last. To further broaden future pools, Mr. Klein had planned to screen all kindergarteners. While the plan has fallen victim to budget cuts, widespread kindergarten testing is so controversial that last week, a group of professors and luminaries -- including Deborah Stipek, the dean of Stanford's School of Education, and former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo -- deplored the practice in a letter to the chancellor and mayor. 
 ''Testing young children for gifted classes most likely will increase inequities,'' read the letter, ''and undermine educational opportunities for all children.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Decline in Diversity: The city's new testing regimen for gifted programs steeply cut the number of students from the Bronx and Brooklyn who qualified for the coveted classes. Although the city will not release results by race, schools with high-minority rates lost the most slots.(Source: New York City Department of Education)(pg. B6) Chart details Proportion of students offered gifted slots, by district. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); GIFTED EDUCATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



467 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Dr. A-List Can See You Now

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
ATTENTION, plastic surgery shoppers: Dr. Anthony C. Griffin of Beverly Hills has an opening on his schedule. 
 In 2005, a new client had to wait about two years for an appointment with Dr. Griffin, one of the celebrity plastic surgeons who wielded a scalpel in ''Extreme Makeover,'' the reality program that was on ABC. 
 Now, Dr. Griffin said, his waiting list averages three months. And the big spenders at his practice are as likely to be Russian or British as American. 
 Dr. Griffin, in part, faulted the economy. ''I used to have ballplayers' wives coming in -- they did not even look at what we charged,'' he said last week. ''That is down.'' 
 The dry spell of Americans seeking expensive beauty operations is not limited to the surgical hothouse of Beverly Hills. Earlier this month, this reporter, using a script, made identical anonymous calls to the offices of 48 prominent plastic surgeons in makeover meccas like Orange County, Calif., and the Upper East Side of Manhattan, asking staff members about the earliest possible appointment dates for consultations and cosmetic surgery. I selected plastic surgeons who have appeared regularly on television, or in glossy magazines, or who are listed in the 2007 edition of ''America's Top Doctors,'' a consumer guidebook. 
 This admittedly unscientific inquiry -- known as ''secret shopping'' or ''mystery shopping'' among plastic surgeons, who use it to check out the competition -- elicited the following anecdotal results: about 90 percent of the doctors' offices offered consultations in three weeks or sooner; and about 94 percent offered surgery dates in June or July.
 ''A lot of the busy guys used to brag that they had patients waiting six months or a year,'' said Dr. Michael A. C. Kane, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan. ''Granted, I thought it was exaggerated for their own p.r., but now you almost never hear that. Now you hear a month or two.'' 
 That such a sought-after cohort of doctors is admitting to greater accessibility indicates that plastic surgeons find themselves losing ground in the turf war over cosmetic medicine. 
 Twenty years ago, when the scalpel served as the primary tool for altering a person's physiognomy, plastic surgeons enjoyed a near monopoly on appearance medicine. But now, with the popularization of all kinds of devices like lasers marketed to change the skin, and a variety of injectable fillers used to inflate an aging face, surgeons are increasingly competing with other specialists and even nonspecialists for a finite pool of beauty clients.
 And, in a climate of housing foreclosures, white-collar layoffs and soaring gas prices, beauty consumers may be more disposed to a $1,500 injection session than an $11,000 forehead lift.
 Call it plasticonomics: the new economic reality of vanity.
 ''There is definitely a trading down from big-ticket procedures,'' said Lei Huang, a senior analyst for Summer Street Research Partners, a health care research firm. ''People considering entire face-lifts may hold off on that for a few years and tell themselves, 'I might go in for a little bit of Botox in the forehead and a little filler around the mouth because that may be all I can afford right now.' ''
 Such trading down raises the question of whether surgical artifice may have reached its saturation point, at least in certain markets. ''In Orange County, they have done every housewife,'' said Wendy Lewis, a plastic surgery consultant in Manhattan who counsels clients on cosmetic doctors and procedures. ''Who is left for surgeons to operate on, each other?''
 The rise of nonsurgical procedures is not a new trend in the beauty arena. Last year, continuing a eight-year trend, doctors in the United States performed 81 percent more surgery-free beauty procedures such as Botox injections than they did in 2000, according to an annual report by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. 
 The number of cosmetic surgeries, which declined in 2001 after the terrorist attacks, has not returned to its 2000 levels. Surgery procedures have fluctuated year to year, but they are down 3 percent over 2000, the report said. The statistics do not reflect the economic downturn of the last six months.
 Over the last few years, makeover television shows and direct-to-consumer advertising of products such as breast implants have created an increased middle-income demographic of surgery patients, including teachers, nurses and military wives. But industry analysts predicted that the current economic climate, in which financing is harder to obtain, will put high-ticket surgery beyond the reach of many middle-income consumers. 
 There are no definitive statistics on the annual American consumption of cosmetic medicine, because the national agencies and insurers that compile data on disease treatments generally do not track vanity procedures. 
 But the plastic surgery society, which estimates national trends by extrapolating from a survey of its members and other physicians, reported that doctors performed more than 4.6 million Botox treatments last year, a nearly 500 percent increase over 2000. In the same period, face-lifts decreased by 12 percent, forehead lifts by 65 percent, eyelid surgery by 27 percent and nose surgery by 27 percent, according to the report.
 ''I think it is due to nonplastic surgeons getting a bigger piece of the pie,'' Dr. Kane said.
 Particularly when it comes to facial procedures, plastic surgeons are experiencing increased competition from other doctors (such as facial surgeons, eye surgeons and dermatologists), according to a new economic forecast published this month in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, a medical journal. 
 ''It is clear that plastic surgeons continue to dominate cosmetic surgery of the breast and abdomen but are battling increased competition and even falling behind in the area of facial cosmetic surgery,'' Dr. Tom S. Liu, a resident in plastic surgery at the medical center at the University of California, Los Angeles, and Dr. Timothy A. Miller, the chief of plastic and reconstructive surgery at the center, wrote in the journal article. 
 And now, in addition to increased competition from other doctors, plastic surgery is being squeezed by tighter consumer budgets. 
 ''I think it's related to the economy,'' Dr. Griffin said of the shorter waits at his practice. ''We had people refinancing their homes and using them as A.T.M.s'' to pay for procedures like liposuction and breast augmentation. 
 A survey in April and May of more than 600 plastic surgeons, by the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, reported that almost 53 percent said the downturn in the economy has had an adverse impact on plastic surgery practices. ''When you see greater than half of rank-and-file plastic surgeons saying they are being hit, it is based on the economy and the incursion of other physicians into elective cosmetic procedures,'' said Dr. Alan Gold, the president of the aesthetic surgery society.
 MS. HUANG, the industry analyst, said that consumers are shying away from beauty procedures costing more than $2,000, with dermatologists seeing clients who might otherwise have gone to plastic surgeons. ''They are still seeing patients come in for information and consultations,'' Ms. Huang said. ''They are not seeing as many patients pulling the trigger right now. Surgery, that is a big upfront payment you have to make out of pocket.'' 
 Still, some plastic surgeons said they had not felt an impact. Dr. Sherrell J. Aston, the chairman of plastic surgery at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, said his hospital has seen an increase over the last four years in cosmetic operations. 
 He added that waiting lists are not indicative of the health of the plastic surgery field. ''If someone called today from out of town for a consultation, I would stay late to accommodate them or come in early tomorrow,'' Dr. Aston said. ''This is a service business.''
 But Dr. Linda Li, a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, said that decreasing wait times can be a symptom of decreased interest in -- or funds for -- plastic surgery. Since October, she has seen a 50 percent decline in big-ticket surgeries like face-lifts and nose jobs, she said.
 ''We are a luxury item,'' said Dr. Li, who appears regularly on the reality show ''Dr. 90210'' broadcast on the E! Entertainment Network. ''People want us, but they don't actually need us.''
 It used to require four to six months to get an appointment with her, Dr. Li said.
 Now the wait is a month. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Anthony C. Griffin Location: Beverly Hills Boldface credential: ''Extreme Makeover'' Wait time in 2005: two years Current average wait time: 3 months
 Dr. Linda Li Location: Beverly Hills Boldface credential: ''Dr. 90210'' Wait time in 2007: four to six months Current average wait time: one month.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATASHA CALZATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. G3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (78%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); LAYOFFS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



468 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Abu Sayyaf Militants Free Kidnapped News Crew in Philippines

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA 

 BODY:
Abu Sayyaf militants have released members of a news team they abducted last week in the southern Philippines, among them one of the country's best-known television journalists, officials said Wednesday. 
 The journalist, Ces Drilon, and a cameraman and a guide were abducted June 8 on their way to interview members of Abu Sayyaf. A driver was released more than a week ago, and the others late Tuesday. 
 ''There was betrayal involved, which was why we were kidnapped,'' Ms. Drilon said Wednesday during a news briefing. She did not elaborate.
 The militants had demanded a ransom of about $340,000 by noon Tuesday, but Ms. Drilon's employer, ABS-CBN, the country's largest network, had repeatedly said it would not pay. 
 The driver was released last Thursday after local officials paid the kidnappers about $45,000, which was not characterized as a ransom. 
 Officials said the kidnappers had relented on Ms. Drilon and her companions when offered, in lieu of a ransom, ''a livelihood package.''
 They did not explain what that might entail, but officials had said that the lagging economy in the Muslim areas of the south was a factor in the rise in kidnappings there. Alvarez Ishaji, the mayor of Indanan, a city in Sulu Province, said the package might involve promoting jobs in the region. 
 Avelino Razon Jr., the chief of the Philippine National Police, said Wednesday that the release of Ms. Drilon and her crew was mainly the result of negotiations between the kidnappers and Sulu officials. The police also credited a senator, Loren Legarda, a former colleague of Ms. Drilon's at ABS-CBN.
 Ms. Drilon, whose face bore mosquito bites after nine days in the jungles on the island of Jolo, said, ''We were treated well, in a perverse kind of way.'' But she said the kidnappers had threatened at one point to cut off her driver's head.
 Abu Sayyaf, an Islamist extremist group mainly known for its banditry in the south, has been blamed for several of the more serious terrorist attacks in the Philippines in recent years, including the bombing of a ferry in 2004 that caused a fire that killed 116 people. 
 The group's members have kidnapped, and sometimes decapitated, their victims, including several foreigners.
 Abu Sayyaf has been the target of a sustained military campaign supported by the United States. Although American and Philippine officials say the campaign has weakened the group considerably during the past five years, analysts say the militants remain a high security threat. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ces Drilon, a TV journalist, arriving in Manila on Wednesday after being freed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMEO GACAD/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); FIRES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ABU SAYYAF GROUP (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) PHILIPPINES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



469 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: The Catch Phrase Is 'a La Carte' As Airlines Push Additional Fees

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Airlines are adding fees and surcharges on top of rising fares. They would like travelers to embrace them as ''a la carte pricing.''
 This could be viewed as the industry's new effort to put a positive spin on the soaring cost of flying. They can raise fares only so much before travelers stay home. So to generate more revenue, some carriers are charging for checking the first bag. US Airways even said last week it would charge $2 for nonalcoholic beverages.
 The a la carte phrase came up several times Wednesday during a Merrill Lynch transportation conference in New York, where executives said the tough new cost environment means nothing can be free, or cheap, for travelers anymore. 
 ''If we are going to have an airline business, our customers must ultimately compensate us for the cost of flying them around the country and around the world,'' Gerard J. Arpey, chief executive of American Airlines, said at the conference.
 J. Scott Kirby, president of US Airways, said that passengers would prefer to pay for the features they actually used. 
 Historically, he said, all passengers paid for checking bags even when they did not bring luggage, because a charge for transporting them was built into the ticket price. 
 Now, he said, ''those who want the infrastructure to check bags, will check bags; those that don't, won't pay for them.'' 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Kirby estimated the new a la carte pricing schedule of fees and charges would generate $300 million to $400 million a year for his airline this year. ''There are not a lot of $300 to $400 million ideas in the industry and when you find them, you have to take advantage of them,'' Mr. Kirby said.
 United Airlines, for its part, expects to collect $275 million this year by charging for checking bags and sees even greater possibilities from the a la carte approach. Frederic F. Brace, the airline's chief financial officer, predicted his carrier was on track to collect $1 billion in additional revenue through the new fees and efforts like Economy Plus, an upgraded coach class that offers more legroom. 
 ''Fuel is a game changer for the industry,'' Mr. Brace told the conference audience. But the pay-as-you-go menu also could backfire if customers -- and other airlines -- balk. In the 1990s, American tried to convince its rivals to go along with a streamlined fare system it called Value Pricing; the effort collapsed when other airlines declined to match American's fares.
 This decade, Delta Air Lines instituted sharply lower prices for business class and other tickets under a plan it called SimpliFares. While fares stayed low for a time, rising oil prices drove ticket prices higher, especially after oil crossed $100 a barrel in January.
 The rising oil prices have negated much of the reorganizing work performed by airlines in and out of bankruptcy protection. That includes the $6 billion that American saved as a result of its mid-decade reorganizing. 
 ''Fuel prices erased all of what we have accomplished,'' Mr. Arpey said.
 His airline, as well as United, Continental, and US Airways have announced plans to ground planes, reduce flights and eliminate service. On Wednesday, Delta disclosed a second round of capacity cuts, one day after Northwest Airlines, its merger partner, announced it would park a larger number of planes than it originally planned.
 Delta said it would cut capacity by 13 percent in the second half of the year, more than the 10 percent it had expected to cut. Delta said, however, that it would increase its international routes by 14 percent this year, as it shifts to service where it can charge more for tickets.
 Delta said it was sticking to the plan, announced in March, to eliminate 90 aircraft from its fleet. The airline said it did not plan to eliminate any cities from its schedule, but would cut back on the frequency of flights between its destinations. 
 One airport most affected by the plan is Orlando, Fla., which will see flights reduced to Nashville, Louisville, Ky., Richmond, Va., and New Orleans, among other places. It also is eliminating flights between Los Angeles and Las Vegas.
 Should the fuel situation grow worse, Delta is prepared to make ''additional adjustments if necessary,'' said Edward H. Bastian, the airline's president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Airlines are trying to put a positive spin on the high cost of flying.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (72%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (70%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GERARD ARPEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



470 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Most Doctors Aren't Using Electronic Health Records

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
A government-sponsored survey of the use of computerized patient records by doctors points to two seemingly contradictory conclusions, and a health care system at odds with itself.
 The report, published online on Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, found that doctors who use electronic health records say overwhelmingly that such records have helped improve the quality and timeliness of care. Yet fewer than one in five of the nation's doctors has started using such records. 
 Bringing patient records into the computer age, experts say, is crucial to improving care, reducing errors and containing costs in the American health care system. The slow adoption of the technology is mainly economic. Most doctors in private practice, especially those in small practices, lack the financial incentive to invest in computerized records. 
 The national survey found that electronic records were used in less than 9 percent of small offices with one to three doctors, where nearly half of the country's doctors practice medicine.
 Dr. Paul Feldan, one of three doctors in a primary care practice in Mount Laurel, N.J., considered investing in electronic health records, and decided against it. The initial cost of upgrading the office's personal computers, buying new software and obtaining technical support to make the shift would be $15,000 to $20,000 a doctor, he estimated. Then, during the time-consuming conversion from paper to computer records, the practice would be able to see far fewer patients, perhaps doubling the cost.
 ''Certainly, the idea of electronic records is terrific,'' Dr. Feldan said. ''But if we don't see patients, we don't get paid. The economics of it just seem so daunting.''
 Private and government insurers and hospitals can save money as a result of less paper handling, lower administration expenses and fewer unnecessary lab tests when they are connected to electronic health records in doctors' offices. Still, it is mainly doctors who bear the burden making the initial investment.
 ''We have a broken market for electronic health record adoption because the people who gain financially are not the people who pay,'' said Dr. Blackford Middleton, a health technology expert at Partners Healthcare, a nonprofit medical group that includes Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
 To fix the market, Dr. Middleton, like others, recommends that the government play a role in providing incentives or subsidies to speed the use of computerized patient records in the United States, whose adoption rate trails most developed nations. 
 The government took a step in that direction last week, announcing a $150 million Medicare project that will offer doctors incentives to move from paper to electronic patient records. The program is intended to help up to 1,200 small practices in 12 cities and states make the conversion. 
 Individual doctors will be offered up to $58,000 over the five-year span of the project, which is intended to test the impact of incentives on the spread of electronic health records. Further programs across the country are planned.
 The report published in the journal also found that electronic health records were used by 51 percent of larger practices, with 50 or more doctors. 
 Indeed, electronic health records are pervasive in the largest integrated medical groups like Kaiser Permanente, the Mayo Clinic, the Cleveland Clinic, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and others. These integrated groups not only have deep pockets. By combining doctors, clinics, hospitals and often some insurance they can also capture the financial savings from electronic health records.
 The findings of the study, which was paid for by the Department of Health and Human Services and a grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, broadly echo previous research on the adoption of electronic health records. Large medical groups have long been the early adopters, and small practices have struggled.
 But the new study is based on a large sampling -- more than 2,600 doctors across the country -- and a detailed survey, making it more definitive than past research, experts say. The results, they say, also show a strong endorsement of electronic health records by doctors who have them, especially for what the report termed ''fully functional'' records, which include reminders of care guidelines, based on a patient's age, gender or medical history.
 For example, 82 percent of those using such electronic records said they improved the quality of clinical decisions, 86 percent said they helped in avoiding medication errors and 85 percent said they improved the delivery of preventative care.
 ''Those numbers are huge and very encouraging,'' said Dr. David J. Brailer, the former health information technology coordinator in the Bush administration.
 Dr. Brailer also pointed to the 54 percent of doctors without electronic health records who said that not finding an electronic health record that met their needs was a ''major barrier'' to adoption. In short, they are not satisfied with the existing products, which tend to be designed for hospitals -- big customers -- instead of small practices.
 ''What we see is a deficit in innovation, and that is something innovators and the capital markets can address,'' said Dr. Brailer, who leads a firm that invests in medical ventures, Health Evolution Partners.
 One wave of innovation is coming from big technology companies, like Microsoft and Google, which recently have begun services that offer consumer-controlled personal health records over the Web, which are stored in the companies' data centers. These consumer-controlled health records are intended to link up and exchange information with electronic patient records in doctors' offices and hospitals. 
 Dr. Peter Masucci, a pediatrician with his own office in Everett, Mass., embraced electronic health records to ''try to get our practice into the 21st century.''
 He could not afford conventional software, and chose a Web-based service from Athenahealth, a company supplying online financial and electronic health record services to doctors' offices.
 Dr. Masucci was already using Athenahealth's outsourced financial service, and less than two years ago adopted the online medical record.
 Today, Dr. Masucci is an enthusiast, talking about the wealth of patient information, drug interaction warnings and guidelines for care, all in the Web-based records.
 ''Do I see more patients because of this technology? Probably no,'' Dr. Masucci said. ''But I am doing a better job with the patients I am seeing. It almost forces you to be a better doctor.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Paul Feldan, one of three doctors in a New Jersey practice, said switching to electronic records did not make economic sense.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dr. Peter Masucci, a pediatrician in Massachusetts, said shifting to computerized records helped improve his patient care.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SPENCER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A Matter of Scale: Larger doctors groups have more quickly adopted electronic health records.(Source: Massachusetts General Hospital's Institute for Health Policy) Chart details bar graph for medical practices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RECORDS (94%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (94%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); INSURANCE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



471 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Regional Banks Are Rocked

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
In Ohio, the Panic of 1907 drove the Fifth National Bank into the arms of the Third National Bank, creating the singularly named Fifth Third Bank of Cincinnati. 
 But today Fifth Third and other regional banks across the nation are being shaken to the core by a 21st century financial crisis. For many of them, things are going from bad to worse. 
 Home mortgages and other loans that the banks made in good times are souring so fast that many of the lenders are scrambling to prop themselves up. If the pain worsens -- and many analysts say it will -- some of these banks, like Fifth Third's predecessors, may eventually seek out suitors, most likely large national rivals. 
 For now, however, no one seems to want the regional banks. Stock market investors are deserting them en masse. On Wednesday, Fifth Third's share price plunged 27 percent to $9.26, its lowest level in more than a decade, after the bank said it would cut its dividend and seek to raise $2 billion. Other financial stocks, particularly regional banks' shares, also tumbled. The Standard & Poor's 500 Regional Banks Index sank 6.8 percent. 
 ''Everybody is trying to figure out where the bottom is,'' said Jennifer Thompson, a regional bank analyst for Portales Partners in New York. ''Every time a bank reports another capital raise or reports that things are worse than they anticipated, there is another round of selling.''
 But Wednesday was just one more bad day in what has been a horrible year for small and midsize banks. Their descent in the stock market has been remorseless, reflecting the economic pain in their own backyards. Weakening housing and construction markets in regions like the Midwest, Southeast and Southwest have hit lenders in those areas hard. 
 For the banks' shareholders, the numbers tell a sad story: Wednesday's decline brought the loss for the S.& P. bank index to 39.3 percent so far this year. Fifth Third's odd name almost seems like a bad joke. Fifth Third has lost two-thirds of its value this year. Shares of two other banks based in Ohio, the National City Corporation, of Cleveland, and Huntington Bancshares, of Columbus, have suffered similar declines. 
 Banks based in the Southeast are hurting, too. The Regions Financial Corporation, the biggest bank in Alabama, has lost half its value. Standard & Poor's predicted this week that Regions would cut its dividend to conserve its capital in the face of rising losses on real estate loans. The share price of SunTrust Banks, which operates across the Southeast, has fallen almost 41 percent. 
 Small and midsize lenders are in far less danger than they were during the 1980s and early 1990s, when about 1,600 federally insured institutions failed during a savings and loan crisis. But the breadth and depth of the current troubles have caught bank executives by surprise. Federal regulators are particularly concerned about the exposure of smaller banks to the commercial real estate market, which has softened in some parts of the country. 
 But another worry is that raising money will become increasingly costly for banks that need capital. In a report issued this week, analysts at Goldman Sachs said banks might need as much as $65 billion on top of the $120 billion they have already raised. 
 But so far the vast majority of investors who bought into financial companies in the hope that the industry was out of the woods have lost, and lost big. As a result, many investors are reluctant to sink more money into regional banks, fearing their investments will be diluted if the banks sell even more stock. While many regional banks are trading far below their book values -- at $4.83 on Wednesday, National City fetched just a fifth of its book value per share -- many people are simply afraid to buy. 
 ''You are in this death spiral of dilution,'' said David Ellison, the chief investment officer of FBR Funds, a mutual fund company based in Arlington, Va. ''It's this toxic math.'' 
 The need for new financing highlights the trouble many banks are having in selling assets like mortgages and home equity loans. They are trying to offload these assets to reduce amount of capital they are required to hold. 
 But more than anything, the problems confronting regional banks underscore the extent to which the housing crisis has spread throughout the country. In the Southeast, Regions and SunTrust are reeling from loosely underwritten mortgages now that real estate values are plummeting in the region. 
 In the West, Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, is being hurt by loans that it made to borrowers with shaky credit. Fremont General, the parent of a big subprime lender and a bank in California, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday. Customers' accounts, insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, are safe. 
 A handful of tiny banks have failed in small towns in Arkansas, Minnesota and Missouri. Rust Belt banks like National City and Fifth Third, in the meantime, have been stung by losses not only on their home turf but also in Florida, where they expanded in recent years. Initially, the push into Florida helped the banks increase growth rates as their hometown economies worsened. Now, these lenders are challenged on two fronts.
 Bankers, who tried to assign innings to the credit crisis only a few months ago, are now resigned to participating in an extra-inning game. Several analysts now think that industry losses will not peak until next year.
 ''We have gone from shock and awe to blocking and tackling,'' Mr. Ellison said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fifth Third bank shares fell on news it would cut its dividend.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BEHRMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) CHART: Widespread Suffering: The credit crisis has taken a heavy toll on regional banks over the last year.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details statistics for 12 month change in stocks.
 DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVIDENDS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%)

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (96%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (63%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (63%); REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP (62%); THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF SOUTH CENTRAL TENNESSEE (58%); HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INC (52%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (50%)

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (96%); PNC (NYSE) (63%); RF (NYSE) (62%); HBAN (NASDAQ) (52%); STI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



472 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Trouble in Financials Drags Down Shares

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street sank Wednesday for the second consecutive day on renewed concerns about the financial sector and FedEx's warning that weakening demand and surging fuel costs would weigh on its profits in the coming year.
 The Dow Jones industrial average finished down more than 130 points, after briefly dipping below 12,000 for the first time since mid-March. All three major stock indexes finished down about 1 percent.
 Fifth Third Bancorp said it planned to cut its dividend by nearly two-thirds, raise $1 billion through an offering of preferred stock and generate another $1 billion through the sale of businesses. 
 MF Global, the futures and options broker, predicted that tight credit spreads would weigh on its fiscal first-quarter earnings. The company said it planned to sell $300 million in convertible securities to help pay down a loan due this year.
 And although Morgan Stanley reported a slightly better-than-expected fiscal second-quarter profit, earnings at the investment bank were still down 61 percent from a year earlier, on declining revenue.
 Earlier, FedEx forecast that earnings for the fiscal year that began this month would fall well short of what Wall Street had been expecting. 
 ''I think the news out of FedEx today really is starting to make people second-guess some of the optimism that had been brewing over the last few weeks,'' said Craig Peckham, market strategist at Jefferies & Company in New York.
 The Dow fell 131.24, or 1.08 percent, to 12,029.06. The index briefly fell below 12,000 before recovering. The index had not traded below the 12,000 mark since March 18 and last closed below that level on March 17.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 13.12, or 0.97 percent, to 1,337.81, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 28.02, or 1.14 percent, to 2,429.71.
 Light crude rose $2.67 to $136.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after the Energy Department said that the nation's crude oil stockpiles fell less than expected last week but that gasoline supplies declined. 
 The run-up in oil has unnerved some on Wall Street and raised the prospect that consumers would pare spending on nonessentials because they were forced to reach deeper into their wallets at the gas pump.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 5.86, or 0.80 percent, to 730.71.
 Among financials, one of the weakest-performing sectors in the session, Morgan Stanley rose 10 cents to $40.69, but Fifth Third, a bank mostly in the Midwest and the South, fell $3.47, or 27 percent, to $9.26, and MF Global fell $5.43, or 41 percent, to $7.83.
 ''The financials are getting hit. There just isn't anything to spark interest in buying,'' said Ron Kiddoo, chief investment officer for Cozad Asset Management in Champaign, Ill. He said that investors were finding it difficult to set aside their worries about the economy.
 FedEx predicted it would earn $4.75 to $5.25 a share for its fiscal year, below the $5.92 a share analysts had expected, according to Thomson Financial. The stock fell $1.73, or 2 percent, to $82.60.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped 16/32, to 97 28/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 4.14 percent, from 4.20 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorites (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (76%); FUTURES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%)

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (85%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (85%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008



473 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2342 words

HEADLINE: Crisis and Renewal

BYLINE: By MAXINE SWANN

DATELINE: Buenos Aires 

 BODY:
 ''I'M sad that you see Argentina like this,'' Pola Oloixarac, my new Argentine friend, said one night in November 2003 as we passed a cluster of figures picking through heaps of garbage bags on the otherwise deserted streets downtown. ''It's because of the crisis, you know.'' She was referring to the economic crisis of 2001, the most dramatic societal upheaval in over a decade in a country prone to such upheavals.
 ''But soon you'll see,'' she added. ''Everything will get more and more beautiful.''
 I moved to Buenos Aires in April 2001, a few months before the crash, after my Argentine husband, Juan Pablo, received an offer to write a series for Argentine television. I was 32 and had just signed a contract to write my first novel. 
 Having lived with an Argentine for 10 years but never having seen his native country, I was deeply curious about the place, though ambivalent about leaving behind my newly resuscitated New York life. Juan Pablo and I had only recently moved back to the United States after living together in Paris for eight years, and our plan was to stay in Buenos Aires for six months. I have now been here for seven years.
 In the early days, when I was just a visitor, the city was a maelstrom of exciting, often disorienting impressions, but the center of my life was elsewhere. It was only as it became apparent that we were going to be here longer that I began to know Buenos Aires in a different way. It takes a while to settle down in an eternally unsettled place.
 When we arrived, Buenos Aires's cost of living was not that much less than New York's, because the government had fixed the peso to the dollar in the early 1990s (the exchange rate was one to one). We paid $800 for our first apartment, a small one-bedroom on the ninth floor of a 14-story building, unremarkable except for the view. Nearly all Buenos Aires apartments have a balcony, usually covered with plants, but ours looked out on the Plaza Las Heras, a square several blocks wide that was once a prison but is now a park.
 My favorite pastime was standing on the balcony peering down through the tops of the unfamiliar trees: the palo borracho, with its thorns and flamboyant pink blossoms in spring and fall; the prehistoric-looking araucaria, with its stiff, spiky branches like a giant pine cone. The Plaza Las Heras was populated at every hour with lovers holding hands, making out on benches or sprawled on the grass. When it rained, sudden downpours out of the blue, the treetops swirled and thrashed, shedding flowers and fronds, and the street below would flood. (The city's drainage system needs attention.) I'd watch people wading knee-deep against the current to get from the pharmacy to the bus stop. 
 On dry days, when I wasn't writing, I would walk. The Jardin Zoologico, eight blocks north along the Avenida Las Heras, was crawling with hundreds of cats. Farther along, I'd come across graffiti on walls, not the tags I was used to but whimsical lines, written in direct address form: ''Flor, I need things to go on happening between us, your astronaut.'' I'd turn a corner and see, in the wide, dark doorway of a garage, a man standing in the center, butchering meat.
 As I wandered, captivated, dislocated, I tried to match what I was seeing with the stories I'd heard from my husband about his childhood city, finding that sometimes the vision fit and sometimes it did not. In particular, I hadn't been prepared for the city's endless ability to surprise. 
 Even within a single neighborhood the city would often abruptly change the subject. Walking along a lively street lined with restaurants and shops, I would suddenly stumble into a wasteland where the railroad passed through. Unlike Paris, which had seemed very much a finished city, Buenos Aires felt distinctly unfinished. It was difficult to predict what would occur. This was also what I liked.
 Our neighborhood, Alto Palermo, had a solidly bourgeois character, with modern high-rises overlooking the park, and was known as Barrio Freud for the number of psychoanalysts practicing there. It is widely believed that Argentina has more analysts per capita than any other country in the world. In the same way that every middle-class family has a cleaning woman -- made possible by an abundant workforce streaming in from other South American countries -- most middle-class people seem to have analysts. Mentioning you have an appointment with an analyst, or that your child does, is comparable to saying you have a hair appointment.
 After I had been here a while, though, I began to see that the Argentines I was meeting did not seem particularly interested in self-improvement. The psychoanalysis they practiced and pursued -- the strict kind, years and years on the couch -- mainly provided them with a lens through which to look at the world. In the same way they are fatalistic about their volatile economic and political situation, Argentines seem to think that you are what you are, and not much about that is going to change, even if the world around you is bound to.
 AT the end of 2001 came the dizzying crash. For some time the economy had been deteriorating; the peso's one-to-one convertibility with the dollar was an artificial paradise. Economic measures known as the corralito, or little corral, were introduced, essentially cutting off people's access to their savings. The exchange rate leapt to four pesos to one dollar, then settled at three-to-one. Now, even if people were ever able to retrieve their savings, which was not assured, the amounts would have fallen to a third of their value. People of all classes took to the streets, banging pots and pans, in protests known as cacerolazos, which occasionally turned violent. Some set themselves on fire in front of banks. In less than two weeks from late December to early January, Argentina had five different presidents.
 Often when I went out walking now, I would run into crowds. Once, after my Spanish class, I got caught up in one in a square in front of the Pink House, the presidential palace. There were policemen with plastic shields, a helicopter overhead. The crowd started to panic and run for reasons I could not discern. One man, who must have been caught off guard as he urinated against a building, ran toward me, his pants still down. I ran too, my heart racing.
 People were scrambling, pressing against one another. In the next moment we were dispersed. I spiraled off, into a new neighborhood, and found myself in streets full of empty taxis. No one could afford to take one anymore.
 Although I could not help but be confronted with the crisis on a daily basis, I was also strangely insulated from it. My husband was being paid in pesos, but our savings were not in Argentine banks. Moreover, given the new exchange rate, real estate prices were suddenly absurdly low. We realized we could afford a much bigger apartment, with offices for us both. And although we had never been big savers, we thought we might even be in a position to buy. I began looking, scouting low-roofed houses in Palermo Viejo, a leafy, cobblestone neighborhood that was becoming chic.
 It soon became clear, though, that even with the lower prices, we would not be able to buy. Instead, we rented the fifth floor of a Parisian-style building -- 2,000 square feet, with high ceilings and a separate servants' entrance -- in Recoleta, a wealthy neighborhood famous for a walled cemetery where many of the Argentine elite are buried. Our rent was $500 a month. 
 The apartment was being used as a huge storage unit; we were told that we could keep any furniture we liked and the rest would be removed. For the first time in our lives, we had guestrooms, and invited guests to stay. We threw lavish parties. 
 Up to this point I had only one close friend in Buenos Aires, another American. Now I began to get to know Argentines, like Pola. Instead of wandering around on my own, I began to venture out with them, exploring parts of the city I had never been in and seeing those I thought I knew in a new light. I was encountering another city, previously invisible to me.
 Buenos Aires was starting to feel like home when, in 2005, Juan Pablo and I had our own personal crash, and our marriage ended. I was reeling, and initially considered returning to the United States. But I felt my discovery of Buenos Aires was just beginning; more than that, it was as if, because of the city, new neural pathways were opening in my brain.
 I was working on a second novel at the time (my first was published in 2003), but I found myself focusing on the idea for a third one, much bigger in scope, about Buenos Aires. Returning to New York was not an option. Once again, I began looking for a home.
 I started my search in Palermo Viejo, but by now a real estate and construction boom had begun, fueled by Argentines' mistrust of their banks. Increasingly, people kept their money in their homes or in safe-deposit boxes, sent it abroad or invested in property. And when the exchange rate tripled, foreigners and Argentines who had money abroad began buying real estate, driving up prices. Apartments I had looked at several years ago in Palermo Viejo had more than doubled in cost.
 One night I went to a party in a converted warehouse in the Chacarita neighborhood, named after the large municipal graveyard. The area around the graveyard was still considered seedy, but the other side was up and coming. Although the party was dark, I had a vivid impression of a glass roof of cathedral dimensions and a tree in an enormous pot standing in the living room. 
 The owner moved in the same circles I did, and I learned through a friend that, riding the wave of the construction boom, he had recently converted his place into two rental apartments. When I called him, he said the second-floor apartment was free and I could move in right away, on the understanding that he would be doing construction work above me, building a third apartment on the roof.
 The apartment was one open space, the floors and countertops polished concrete, and it was put together on a limited budget. The stove, unnervingly powerful, was from a restaurant the landlord had once owned, as was the factory-size fan nailed high on the wall. But the apartment captured my imagination. Vines crossed the windows and a little glass patio box in one corner let in light. Things worked in their own special way. The owner had done all the plumbing and wiring himself, and once, when he was out of town, I had to call a plumber to fix something. He stood and stared for a long time. ''What the hell is this?'' he said.
 Then the construction began above, and water started running down the walls. In places it ran in rivulets, in others in sheets. There were puddles on the floor. One day in a heavy rain the patio's drain was blocked with leaves and the apartment flooded. My neighbor downstairs, whose place was also flooding, came up to help. First we sopped up the water with towels, then, when it rose higher, we grew frantic and began pushing it down the stairwell with brooms. Once it subsided, I lay exhausted on the bed. The owner was putting in a small swimming pool that would double as a hot tub above my head. I could hear the water splashing as I lay there.
 THIS new rooftop apartment, with the little pool, has become my home. It has the same polished concrete floors, quirky plumbing and dangling vines as the apartment downstairs, but it is smaller and has a row of windows that lets in a flood of sunlight. Nearly every night, I sit in the hot tub, gazing past the neighbor's araucaria tree up into the evening sky.
 By now I've worked out the various walks I can take from here. One option is to cross Palermo Viejo and, passing the superstore Jumbo and the mosque, walk down to the Bosques de Palermo (Palermo Forests), a vast stretch of green on the north side of the city inspired by the Bois de Boulogne in Paris. Skirting Rosedal, the famous rose garden, I follow the runners' path around the artificial lake. People sit together in the grass, next to or on top of one another, doing nothing. The smell of the eucalyptus rises up. In the evening the transvestites materialize; a transvestite in white is often the first, wearing high white boots and white leather. The first cars are cruising slowly, the air edged with darkness. 
 Another walk is around the Chacarita graveyard. Like Recoleta, Chacarita has its mausoleum sector, distinctly urban, like a miniature city, with white and black marble structures and streets so wide you can drive a car through them. Beyond this monumental zone is the vast common area. Small wooden crosses mark the graves, where yellow, pink and red China rose bushes bloom. 
 Baffled by the way rotating portions of the graveyard were always being dug up, I stopped one day to talk to a gravedigger. After telling me how much he loved his job -- ''you're always outside in the sun!'' -- he explained how the burial system works. Unlike in the States, where you own your plot, here the plots are rented. People are buried for four years, then, unless rent is paid to secure the spot, they are dug up to make way for others. Here, the volatility of your dwelling place in death is apparently as dependent on the winds of fortune as it is in life.
 Usually, I walk around the outside of the graveyard, on the path along the wall. There are people along the way I've come to know. I pass the taxi drivers who sack out in their cars in the middle of the day, seats cranked down, doors left open, arms and legs protruding. There's the prostitute in her 40s, round and attractive, who works on the corner, with her great clothing style: suede boots, green-and-brown-patterned skirts. There's the boy with long hair who lives in the slum by the railroad and is always out playing with his friends, whom I've imagined adopting. It's a fantasy, but maybe not entirely. 
 One sure thing I've learned while living here is how the future keeps busting in and surprising you.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WITH A VIEW: When Maxine Swann, an American writer, moved to Buenos Aires in 2001, her first apartment overlooked the Plaza Las Heras, top, once a prison and now a park. Below, Ms. Swann outside her current apartment in the city's Chacarita neighborhood.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO PINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A NEW HOME: The American writer Maxine Swann, right, now lives in a rooftop apartment with a pool, above, in the Chacarita area of Buenos Aires, named for a graveyard, top. The mausoleum sector there is distinctly urban, like a miniature city, with white and black marble structures and wide streets.
BUENOS AIRES SCENES: From far left: the Chacarita neighborhood
a French-style building, center, in Recoleta, a wealthy area where Ms. Swann and her former husband lived shortly after their arrival
 and, left, their apartment, the fifth floor of a Parisian-style building.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO PINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); COST OF LIVING (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



474 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Subway Service Increase To Be Less Than Hoped

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
A burgeoning financial crisis will prevent the Metropolitan Transportation Authority from delivering on most of a series of promised service expansions -- but a more modest set of changes aimed at easing subway crowding is still in the works, officials said on Wednesday. 
 Extra service, sometimes in small increments, sometimes in larger ways, will be added to nine subway lines in July, according to information distributed to the authority's board this week. 
 The changes include having the B and W trains run until 11 p.m. on weekdays, an hour and a half later than they currently run. And the No. 3 train, which currently shuts down from midnight to 5 a.m., would run during those hours between Times Square and 148th Street. 
 The changes will cost about $4.5 million for the remainder of this year and $8.9 million a year after that. They require approval by the authority's board, which meets next week. 
 Most of the changes were included in a larger set of service improvements -- for the New York City subway and buses, the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Railroad -- that the authority's board put forward last December at the same time that it approved a fare and toll increase. 
 Those improvements were expected to cost a total of $46 million annually, and the board said in December that they would not be put in place until a review of the authority's finances in the first three months of this year had been completed. 
 That review showed that the authority was receiving far less revenue from taxes on real estate transactions than it had anticipated, and the improvements were put on hold until June. 
 But officials said this week that the financial situation had become worse and that the authority would not be able to carry out most of the proposed improvements, including several ambitious expansions to bus service. 
 (The authority's executive director, Elliot G. Sander, said recently that early estimates showed the authority facing a deficit of $500 million to $700 million next year.)
 That leaves the subway service changes, which will be paid for by making cuts in other parts of the subway budget, including administrative costs and subway car cleaning expenses, among others.
 ''Customers are going to see more service on these lines during these specific time periods, shorter waits during these time periods and a little bit more wiggle room,'' said Paul Fleuranges, a spokesman for New York City Transit, which operates the subway. 
 The changes range from adding one train to the schedule on the No. 3 line throughout the morning peak period to running 14 additional trains on the No. 7 line on Saturdays and Sundays. 
 Mr. Fleuranges said that adding even one train on a busy line like the No. 3 would shave about a minute off wait times and would relieve crowding. 
 ''One train is a lot of people,'' he said.
 The documents distributed to the board said that the changes were needed on lines that exceed what the transit agency calls its loading guidelines -- a measure of the maximum number of people that subway cars should carry at different times of the day. Those guidelines typically require at least three square feet per person, and they are often violated in rush periods when people squeeze in. 
 Some of the lines that will receive more service, like the B and W, do not exceed the limits, but adding trains there will ease crowding on other lines that use the same tracks, like the Q and the N.
 The lines that will receive added service or that will benefit from added service elsewhere include the 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, B, J, M, N, Q, W and the shuttle between Times Square and Grand Central Terminal, according to the board documents. 
 One line that had been scheduled for more service in the original proposal last December but was not included in this round of improvements was the G. Riders on the G often complain of long waits between trains. Officials said the G did not exceed the loading guidelines. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Thursday about a reduction in subway service expansions promised by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority referred incorrectly to the service changes that will be carried out. They do not in fact have to be approved by the authority's board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



475 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Former Company Town Faces Uncertain Future

BYLINE: By PAMELA J. PODGER

DATELINE: BONNER, Mont. 

 BODY:
For the past century, residents here have known two constants. They worked at the local lumber mill, where a seemingly endless supply of timber from the mountains kept saws whirring. And they played at the Milltown Reservoir, fishing and swimming behind a dam that was built at the confluence of the Clark Fork and Blackfoot Rivers to supply electricity to the mill. 
 Now the mill has closed, the dam is being torn down and a multimillionaire developer from Missoula, Mont., Scott Cooney, is buying up Bonner, one of the nation's last company towns. 
 The changes -- social, economic and environmental -- are turning ''everyone's world upside down,'' said Amanda Henderson, 25, whose husband, Mike, was laid off from the mill. 
 ''Some changes can be for the better,'' Ms. Henderson said. ''But with the mill gone, there isn't a whole lot out here.''
 Mr. Cooney said he planned to transform this unincorporated working-class community of several hundred residents into a modern ''Mayberry R.F.D.,'' with new and renovated homes, upscale shops and ''green'' manufacturers along the Blackfoot River, which Norman Maclean made famous in his fly-fishing novel ''A River Runs Through It.''
 ''I'd like to take the cyclical nature of the wood-products industry out of here and give people consistent economic engines for the next 100 years,'' Mr. Cooney said.
 He has been working with residents to retain some of Bonner's timber heritage, including reusing hand-hewn timbers from the dam for homes and other new buildings. He also says he wants Bonner to remain affordable, with new homes ranging from $80,000 to $250,000 and current residents given the first chance to buy the renovated mill homes. 
 Still, many residents worry that Mr. Cooney is trying to create a wealthy playground like Coeur d'Alene or Sandpoint in Idaho. He has raised monthly rents on the older mill homes to $650, from $450, despite peeling paint, cheap sawdust insulation and moss that blankets some roofs. Winter heating bills run as high as $400 a month, forcing some residents to cover drafty windows with bubble wrap.
 Gary Caluori is a single father who worked at the mill for 15 years, has lived in several company homes and would like to buy one, but he said he was struggling just to pay the rent. 
 ''People don't like Cooney jacking up the rent, and they worry about what he might do here,'' Mr. Caluori said. ''People want Bonner to stay small. We don't want the community to grow.''
 Another longtime worker at the plant, Gary Tobol, has raised four children with his wife, Sandra, in a mill house. ''It has been a one-company town for so long,'' Mr. Tobol said. ''Everything rises or falls with the economies of the logging industry.''
 Since 1886, when the first log was cut, the Bonner mill has changed ownership several times and survived economic downturns. But the current owner, the Stimson Lumber Company, of Portland, Ore., decided recently to shut it down. Company officials cited the ailing housing market, foreign competition and declining timber prices. 
 ''It's sad,'' said Jeff Webber, Stimson's vice president for manufacturing. ''If a business can't stay competitive, then I'm not sure it's worth keeping it open.''
 Stimson sold all 42 company-owned houses for an undisclosed price to Mr. Cooney, who said he planned to restore the 1930s-era cottages and create a National Historic District along the tree-lined main street opposite the mill. He said he hoped to buy up the rest of Stimson's timber operations. This year, he bought a 116-acre log yard and wants to buy the company's remaining 155 acres. 
 Stimson officials would not comment on negotiations with Mr. Cooney, but Mr. Webber said the company had asked Gov. Brian Schweitzer to help find a manufacturer who could take over running the plant. 
 Most residents have never cashed a paycheck other than one from Stimson or its predecessors. They expressed hope that whoever acquired the mill would offer manufacturing jobs with wages to match those of Stimson, which paid $12 to $20 an hour. 
 Mr. Cooney said he envisioned light manufacturing operations having to do with solar and wind power, and specialty wood products. Ideally, he said, employers would offer workers perks like the free use of kayaks and mountain bikes for lunch-hour recreation. 
 Bonner retains a fierce community pride, but its once bustling character has been replaced by a forlorn air, a near-ghost town where the last few loads of logs outnumbered the few mill workers who remained when the plant shut down last month.
 The Hendersons still live in one of the dilapidated mill houses, but Mr. Henderson has taken a job helping to demolish the Milltown Dam, part of the cleanup of one of the nation's largest Superfund complexes, a toxic legacy from the mining of copper and other heavy metals that took place in the area. 
 He has also hung a sign reading ''Redneck Auto'' outside his garage, hoping to make a few extra dollars as a shade-tree mechanic. 
 The Hendersons' neighbor Dawn Krueger, 53, described Bonner's current state as ''all a jumble with families moving out and others trying to hang on without jobs.''
 ''We're a small community,'' Ms. Krueger said, ''and we're all getting torn apart.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A company home once owned by Stimson Lumber is being moved from its site near the mill. Scott Cooney bought the Stimson Lumber log yard, which is seen directly behind him
 For many years the Stimson Lumber mill provided steady work to people in Bonner, Mont., but it has now closed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM BAUER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Bonner, Mont., finds itself on the cusp of major change. Map of Bonner in Montana. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAW MILLS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (78%); RIVERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); SPORT FISHING (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (71%); CHILDREN (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); RETAILERS (52%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (79%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



476 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2292 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 19, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 U.S. BLAMES SHIITE LEADER FOR DEADLY BAGHDAD BLAST
 The American military blamed a Shiite militia leader for detonating a car bomb that killed 63 people in a Shiite district a day earlier, saying he had intended to incite sectarian violence against Sunnis returning to the area as security improved. Enraged residents had blamed either American soldiers, who had been nearby, or Sunni insurgents from Al Deel, the bordering Sunni district. But the United States military said it was Haydar Mehdi Khadum al-Fawadi and identified him as a leader of the Iranian-linked Shiite fighters known as the Special Groups. PAGE A14 
 MORE CLASHES WITH TALIBAN
 Using helicopter gunships, NATO and Afghan forces battled Taliban insurgents a few miles north of the city of Kandahar. The fighting left 2 Afghan soldiers and about 23 Taliban fighters, including two commanders, dead, the Afghan Defense Ministry said. Three Afghan soldiers were also wounded, the provincial governor said. PAGE A14 
 SOUTH AFRICAN HEAD VISITS MUGABE
 President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, the region's most powerful nation, met with Zimbabwe's strongman, President Robert Mugabe, as a rising chorus of voices warned that a fair vote could be impossible. It is far from clear that Mr. Mbeki, chosen by regional leaders to mediate Zimbabwe's political crisis, has the clout to persuade Mr. Mugabe to halt the systematic efforts to intimidate the political opposition. Mr. Mugabe has vowed in recent days to go to war if he loses after 28 years in power. PAGE A8 
 CHALLENGES FOR E.U. AFTER IRISH VOTE
 The Irish refusal last week to support a new organizational treaty for the 27-member European Union has thrown the bloc into confusion, shocked its bureaucratic elite and done significant damage to France's plans for its six-month presidency, which begins in less than two weeks. European leaders meeting in Brussels for summit talks intended to focus on the next six months, but will spend their time analyzing the solid Irish ''no'' and deciding what, if anything, they can do about it. PAGE A10 
 OLD CAPITAL IS GLOBAL DESTINATION
 Germany's former capital, Bonn, known derisively as the Hauptdorf, or capital village, is supposed to be a relic of the past. But the little city on the Rhine, immortalized by John le Carre as ''a small town in Germany'' in the novel of the same title, has succeeded in the unlikely goal of remaking itself as a place of the future, becoming an international campus for everything from medical research to alternative energy. PAGE A10 
 Taiwan Leader on China Policy A6 
 NATIONAL
 A TEXAS CITY TAKES A STAND 
 Against Inheriting More Waste
 When a town's list of nicknames includes Cancer Alley, the Armpit of Texas and Ring of Fire, the threat of it becoming the final destination for 40 million pounds of toxins from Mexico does not rub the residents the right way. ''Who's next? Germany? Finland? England? We have a right to a clean environment,'' said a community advocate from the downtrodden chemical town on the Gulf of Mexico, Port Arthur. PAGE A16
 MRS. OBAMA CO-HOSTS 'THE VIEW'
 Just as Cindy McCain appeared as a co-host on ''The View'' to smooth over her campaign kerfuffle, Michelle Obama followed in her steps. Mrs. Obama went on the television talk show to combat the notion that she is a little too authentic to be a first lady, while Mrs. McCain did it to undercut the image that she is too fake. PAGE A19
 CHANGING THE WAY WE TEACH
 A new class of young social entrepreneurs seeking to reshape the United States' educational landscape is sprouting across the nation, like Wendy Kopp, the founder of Teach for America, a nonprofit program that recruits elite college graduates to teach in low-income schools. Some prominent academics are skeptical. But others think they just might etch important changes on the nation's schools. PAGE A16
 LEVEES FALL SHORT IN ILLINOIS
 The Mississippi's waters broke over a levee near the hamlet of Meyer, Ill., and surged over tens of thousands of acres of farm fields. The runaway river was gruesome news for the farmers and the residents near Meyer and in other towns near where more than 20 levees have overflowed so far. PAGE A21
 TOMATOES CASE REMAINS UNSOLVED
 The Food and Drug Administration may never be able to pinpoint the origin of salmonella-tainted tomatoes that have sickened hundreds of people, an agency official said. PAGE A24 
 McCain's Goals for Nuclear Reactors A18
 Oak Tree Protesters Are Victorious A16
 METRO
 AFTER 3-YEAR-OLD'S DEATH,
 Grief and Regret at Missed Clues
 The outpouring of support at the wake and funeral of 3-year-old Kyle Smith belied the biography of a boy whose parents had left him in what prosecutors describe as the monstrously brutal Brooklyn home of a woman who had previously lost custody of her own children in Texas. While many of the mourners expressed anger at city officials for not protecting the boy, the Adminstration for Children's Services was only peripherally involved in the case. PAGE B1 
 BUSINESS
 CREDIT CRISIS HITTING
 Regional Banks Hard
 The announcement by Fifth Third Bank of Cincinnati, which has lost two-thirds of its value this year, that it plans to sell $1 billion in convertible preferred stock, sell noncore operations and reduce its dividend by 66 percent is more evidence of the difficult conditions faced by small and midsize banks as credit losses continue to mount. ''Everybody is trying to figure out where the bottom is,'' said one regional bank analyst. PAGE C1 
 AIR TRAVEL GOING a LA CARTE
 Airlines that are adding fees and surcharges on top of rising fares would like travelers to embrace them as a la carte pricing. (The phrase came up several times during a Merrill Lynch transportation conference in New York.) Some carriers are charging for checking the first bag, while US Airways has said it will begin charging $2 for nonalcoholic beverages. The new schedule of fees and charges is expected to generate $300 million to $400 million for US Airways, the company's president said. PAGE C1 
 WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM BOLLYWOOD
 Steven Spielberg and other top executives at DreamWorks SKG may be bolstered by an ambitious Bollywood player, Reliance Big Entertainment of India, that would allow them to split from Paramount Pictures, which owns their boutique film label. Mr. Spielberg and another executive, David Geffen, could get $500 million to $600 million in cash in return for an undisclosed equity stake in their new company, say executives briefed on the negotiations. PAGE C2 
 DOCTORS SPLIT ON ELECTRONIC RECORDS
 A report published in The New England Journal of Medicine found that doctors who use computerized patient records overwhelmingly say that they have helped improve the quality and timeliness of care. Yet fewer than one in five of the nation's doctors have started using such records. Why? The cost of the equipment. ''The economics of it just seem so daunting,'' said one doctor. PAGE C3 
 THE NETFLIX OF GROCERIES
 When George Jetson got hungry, he pushed a couple of buttons on the Food-a-Rac-a-Cycle, and a meal would appear on a plate. Now, a machine that could be that gadget's great-great-grandfather is available in the real world: the Ikan. Each time you are about to throw away an empty container, you pass its bar code under the Ikan's scanner, which beeps and displays the product's name. After a few days of this, you can review a list you've compiled online and click once to have everything delivered to your home at a time you specify. PAGE C1 
 Pfizer Heads Off Lipitor Competition C1 Americans Driving Less, Study Says C3 
 Morgan Results Reflect Decline C4 
 ARTS
 BEHIND THE PORTRAIT OF AN ARTIST,
 A Fierce Muse
 When asked to play the legendary sculptor Louise Nevelson in ''Edward Albee's Occupant,'' Mercedes Ruehl knew little of Ms. Nevelson's assemblages. So she read biographies, collected art books and interviewed Ms. Nevelson's friends, like the art dealer Arnold Glimcher and, of course, Mr. Albee, who was close to her for more than 40 years. The earthy performance that resulted has won plaudits from critics, and the playwright. ''She has a lot of opinions and ideas, and the nice thing about them is most of them are right,'' Mr. Albee said. PAGE B1 
 SHE KNEW HOW TO USE THEM
 A Hollywood immortal, she was not. But those moves! Those legs! It is impossible to imagine the Hollywood musical without Cyd Charisse, the long-legged beauty who in the 1950s gave Fred Astaire some midcareer oomph and Gene Kelly his match in pure animal vitality. An appraisal of the dancer's life by Manohla Dargis. PAGE B1 
 INSTALLATION RESTORATION
 The pivoting windowsills and panels that make up the facade of the Storefront for Art and Architecture, on Kenmare Street, were designed by Steven Holl and Vito Acconci in the early 1990s to illustrate an aesthetic concept that Mr. Holl calls porosity. As it turns out, the building's porosity was more than metaphorical: water flowing through the facade has left it badly damaged. After considering donating the facade to a museum, the Storefront's board has decided instead to commission a restoration. PAGE B3 
 Dinitia Smith: Mahfouz's 'Cairo Modern' B9 
 STYLES
 BLACK AND WHITE, YES, BUT NOT CHECKERED ALL OVER
 A man can successfully borrow style tips from the early 1980s, as long as he knows which ones to choose. Aggressive neon colors, outsize silhouettes and asymmetrical hairstyles? File them under Missing Persons. Skinny black Levi's, checkerboard Vans and a pair of red Wayfarers, though, and you're good to go. David Colman, Dress Codes. PAGE E5 
 A CYCLIST'S LEVELHEADED APPROACH
 Christian Vande Velde, who is expected to be selected for the United States road racing team for the Summer Olympics, does not think that you have to train on lung-busting climbs to be competitive. ''I'm proof that you don't have to ride hills to do well on hills,'' he said. Other tips on offer: spend wisely (''The difference between a $1,500 bike and an $8,000 bike is very small''); rely on power readings, not heart rate or wheel cadence; and skip the Nutella rice. PAGE E1 
 HOUSE & HOME
 OF MILES AND YEARS AND PENCIL LINES
 Once a shambles, now a fortress of steel and stone, the house of Mircea and Silvia Marinescu has been transformed. Mr. Marinescu was an architect in Bucharest, Romania, but was stripped of his portfolio and any evidence of his degree when he left for the United States. Starting over at the bottom, he held jobs beneath his skills, happy to be at least holding a pencil instead of a shovel. In the end, a 100-year-old house in Fort Lee, N.J., became his masterpiece. PAGE D1 
 IS THAT A GALLOWS ON YOUR PLATE?
 Those plates that you reserve for special occasions may have had a previous owner, but rest assured they have never looked as good. After an epiphany that she found most dinnerware boring, Sarah Cihat, a ceramist based in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, began pillaging local thrift shops for old ceramic dishes, and Rehabilitated Dishware was born. She covers the old dishes with new designs, including silhouettes of cuttlefish, flamingos and even chains. Page D7 
 Give That Old Deck New Life D2
 A Paradise in Upstate New York D4
 OBITUARIES
 DETLEF GROMOLL, 70
 A mathematician who helped lay the foundations for studying the abstract distortions of shapes in three or more dimensions, he did research that formed some of the groundwork leading to the proof of the Poincare Conjecture, one of the most famous and intractable problems in mathematics. PAGE C17 
 DONALDSON PILLSBURY, 67
 A lawyer and great-great-grandson of one of the founders of the Pillsbury Company, he guided Sotheby's, the auction house, through a welter of legal problems and helped restore its reputation after a price-fixing scandal in 2000. PAGE C17 
 SPORTS
 SURF AND TURF AT TROPICANA FIELD
 Along with their lofty status atop the National League Central, the Cubs brought to the Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Fla., the celebrity cachet of their manager, Lou Piniella, a Tampa native who ran the Rays from 2003 to 2005. The Cubs-Rays combination proved electric. ''It was a little bit awesome,'' Rays third baseman Evan Longoria said of the game's boisterous atmosphere. The Rays pulled off a tense 3-2 victory before a crowd of 31,607. PAGE C13 
 The Impact of Tiger's Injury C12 
 EDITORIALS
 THE BIG PANDER TO BIG OIL
 President Bush wants to end the federal ban on offshore oil and gas drilling along much of America's continental shelf. This is worse than a dumb idea. It is cruelly misleading. PAGE A26
 TESTING AND LEARNING
 Testing is the only real way to measure student progress and teacher effectiveness. But as a new study from the University of Chicago shows, teaching to the test can be self-defeating. PAGE A26
 A WAR WITH KBR
 Four years ago, a Pentagon contract manager confronted KBR because it could not adequately explain more than $1 billion in war billings. Whoops! He was suddenly replaced. PAGE A26
 OP-ED
 GAIL COLLINS
 There President Bush was in the Rose Garden on Wednesday, unveiling his plan for reducing the price of oil. A little grayer, but strangely unchanged. PAGE A27
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 In Gaza, the yearlong blockade feels not only morally bankrupt but also counterproductive. If the United States and Israel had formed a Joint Commission to Support Hamas Extremists and Bolster Iranian Influence among Palestinians, they could hardly have done a better job. PAGE A27
 SUE OPEC
 The price of oil is nearly twice as high as it needs to be given the cost of production. States could help bring the price down by collectively bringing a suit against OPEC, says Thomas W. Evans in an Op-Ed. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); ENERGY RESEARCH (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (62%); HELICOPTERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); BELGIUM (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



477 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Strengthening Extremists

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: GAZA 

 BODY:
 The yearlong siege of Gaza may soon end with the new cease-fire there, marking the eclipse of one more American-backed Israeli policy that backfired by strengthening extremists.
 Here in Gaza, sulfurous with fumes from cars burning cooking grease because the siege has made gasoline scarce, the entire last year of the blockade feels not only morally bankrupt -- a case of collective punishment -- but also counterproductive. The fragile new truce between Hamas and Israel just might create a new opportunity to stabilize the Palestinian territories, but only if we absorb the lessons of what has gone wrong.
 Consider Adham Sharif, a 26-year-old man whose only child, a baby girl named Mariam, had a tiny hole in her heart and needed surgery to repair it. Gaza hospitals were unable to perform such an operation, but doctors said that surgeons in Israel or in neighboring countries could save her. 
 In theory, there was an exception to the siege to let people out of Gaza in medical emergencies. But Mr. Sharif could not get the Israeli permit for Mariam to leave, and she died in November. ''It's so hard,'' he told me. ''You see your child dying, and you can't save her.''
 Does Mr. Sharif blame Hamas as the cause of the blockade that cost his daughter's life? ''Of course not,'' he said. ''I blame the ones who closed the border: Israel. And America, its ally.''
 Now when he hears of extremists firing rockets at southern Israeli towns like Sderot, Mr. Sharif has a warm feeling all over. 
 When Hamas won democratic elections in Gaza and then seized full power a year ago, there were no good choices for Israel and America. Hamas includes terrorists, Islamic fundamentalists and ideologues, and it has cultivated ties with Iran. It has decent governance by the region's devalued standards -- it is not particularly corrupt; it delivers social services efficiently, and the streets are safe -- but it runs a police state and alarms all its neighbors. 
 Of all the bad choices, Israel chose perhaps the worst. Punishing everyone in Gaza radicalized the population, cast Hamas as a victim, gave its officials an excuse for economic failures and undermined the moderates who are the best hope of both Israel and the Arab world.
 If the U.S. and Israel had formed a Joint Commission to Support Hamas Extremists and Bolster Iranian Influence, they could hardly have done a better job. The episode is the latest evidence that hard-liners in Israel, Palestine and America all reinforce each other. Arab terrorism led to the rise of Israeli hawks and to two invasions of Lebanon. The first Israeli invasion helped give birth to Hezbollah, and then the Israeli assaults on Palestinian police helped nurture Hamas.
 So while Israelis denounce Hezbollah and Hamas, they helped create them. And while Palestinians denounce the separation barrier, their suicide bombings built it. 
 ''Extremists need each other, support each other,'' noted Eyad el-Sarraj, a prominent psychiatrist in Gaza. He laments that the siege of Gaza has discredited pro-American voices: ''Whoever is not going along with the U.S. is a hero, even the crazy ones.'' 
 The U.S. and Israel devoted their energies to punishing Hamas and didn't work to make a success of our preferred interlocutors. So moderates like Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, now come across as weak, irrelevant and ineffective, while Hamas emerges as the victor.
 We should talk to Hamas, not because negotiations will necessarily get anywhere, but because a failure to negotiate will necessarily get nowhere.
 Israel's decision to block Gazans from studying abroad was particularly shortsighted. Educating Gazans might help build a contingent of moderates, but Israel has continued to block three Fulbright scholars from leaving for the U.S.
 ''For Israel to have a better future, it should want neighbors with better education,'' Zohair Abu Shaban, one of the Fulbright students, noted reproachfully.
 So far, Hamas has outmaneuvered Israel and the United States. Opinion polls this year show Hamas gaining over all in the West Bank and Gaza. And, when we help Hamas, we inadvertently boost its backer, Iran.
 Perhaps most depressing, large Palestinian majorities -- more than before -- now favor terror attacks. A university student in Gaza, Rajaa Batrikhi, 20, told me she has suffered so much from the siege that she relishes the rocket attacks from Gaza on Israeli towns.
 ''I think it's good when we hit them with rockets,'' she said defiantly. ''Our rockets are nothing like the rockets they hit us with. At least they feel the fear that we feel every day.''
 It's a credit to Israel that it was willing to negotiate indirectly with Hamas, and with the truce, we now have a chance to break this downward spiral. Let's stop bolstering Hamas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); HEART DISEASE (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%); ELECTIONS (63%); RELIGION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



478 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan's Leader Outlines His Policy Toward China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan called on Wednesday for a rapid expansion of economic relations between Taiwan and mainland China over the next year or two that would go far beyond the weekend charter flights and increased tourism announced last Friday. 
 Mr. Ma said he wanted broad access to the mainland market for Taiwanese financial services businesses, an end to double taxation by government agencies in Taipei and Beijing and the removal of investment restrictions. 
 He also called for direct sea and air cargo links across the Taiwan Strait, regularly scheduled passenger flights, the drafting of common technical standards and the creation of a system to resolve commercial disagreements. 
 ''I think if we could continue the current talks with them to achieve economic normalization, I'm sure the feeling of a peaceful environment will continue to grow, and this is exactly what we have in mind,'' Mr. Ma said in his first interview with an American news organization since taking office on May 20. He spoke for an hour at the presidential palace on Wednesday afternoon. 
 Mr. Ma led his Nationalist Party to a decisive victory in the March elections, prevailing over a candidate warier of closer ties with mainland China. Mr. Ma had promised to strengthen the Taiwanese economy through reconciliation. 
 Two other broad sets of issues will wait until his economic agenda is resolved, Mr. Ma said. These are Taiwan's limited ''international space,'' in the sense that most of the outside world now recognizes Beijing instead of Taipei as the legitimate government of China, and security issues across the Taiwan Strait. 
 ''I think that's the order -- first is economic normalization, and then international space and then the peace accord,'' he said. 
 Economic agreements should also be easier to reach because officials in Beijing seem to have reached a consensus that they want such pacts, Mr. Ma said. No such consensus exists on the mainland regarding Taiwan's international space or security issues, he added. 
 China has worked to block Taiwan from joining certain international bodies, like the World Health Organization, something Mr. Ma said he would like to reverse. In addition, only 23 countries still have diplomatic relations with Taiwan, while 171 recognize Beijing. The two sides have vied for friends with lavish offers of financial aid. 
 President Hu Jintao of China told a Taiwanese negotiator on Friday that he was certain that a way could be found to address this competition, Mr. Ma said, warning that he did not want to see any more allies lured away. 
 ''The marginal utility of adding one country to that 171 list is getting less and less,'' he said. ''On the other hand, the 23 countries are very important to us as a source of dignity.'' 
 Mr. Ma also repeated his demand that China remove the more than 1,000 short- and medium-range missiles that it has aimed at Taiwan. Their removal is needed before any peace talks can begin to end the legal state of hostility that has persisted since the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949, he said. China has threatened the use of force to achieve political reunification. 
 ''The idea is quite simple: we don't want to negotiate a peace agreement while our security is under the threat of missile attack,'' Mr. Ma said. 
 Mr. Ma conducted the interview in flawless English, as befits a man who returned from his doctoral program in legal studies at Harvard in the early 1980s to become a translator and assistant for Chiang Ching-kuo, then the president. Mr. Chiang, the son of Chiang Kai-shek, helped Mr. Ma start his meteoric rise.
 A senior legislator with the Democratic Progressive Party, now in opposition, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday night that Mr. Ma's proposed economic initiatives would make Taiwan too dependent on China for economic growth. 
 ''We're very worried and concerned about the future,'' said the legislator, Lai Ching-teh. ''Ma Ying-jeou's government is placing Taiwan's economic future entirely upon China and is also willing to give up on Taiwan's sovereignty.'' 
 Mr. Lai said that in the years his party held power before Mr. Ma took office, Taiwanese leaders held discussions with China over similar economic proposals. But the talks stalled, he said, because Chinese officials were unwilling to accept the Democratic Progressive Party's broader vision of Taiwanese sovereignty.
 Given the global economic downturn, Mr. Ma was more cautious on Wednesday than he had been during his campaign about Taiwan's economy even with closer ties to the mainland. He had promised 6 percent annual economic growth while campaigning but said in the interview that this probably would not be possible in 2008 because he had just taken office.
 Lately Mr. Ma's energies have been focused on smoothing out a diplomatic conflict that caught him by surprise -- a surge in tensions with Japan over a June 10 incident in the group of disputed islands that the Taiwanese call the Diaoyutai Islands, where a Japanese coast guard vessel sank a Taiwanese sport-fishing boat. Although Japan administers the islands, which it calls the Senkaku Islands, China and Taiwan argue that they belong to the Chinese people. 
 Protesters in both mainland China and Taiwan have demanded a formal apology from Japan. 
 The issue is especially delicate for Mr. Ma, who has long argued that the islands legally belong to the Chinese people. Since then, some Japanese officials have regarded him with suspicion. 
 Asked about the June 10 incident, Mr. Ma said that discussions between Taiwan and Japan were continuing and that tensions were lessening.
 ''We don't want to have this incident hurt our relations with Japan,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); TOURISM (57%); TAXES & TAXATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



479 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BONN JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: No Longer the Capital, But a Global Destination

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: BONN, Germany 

 BODY:
Someone forgot to turn out the lights in Bonn.
 Germany's former capital, known derisively as the ''Hauptdorf,'' or capital village, is supposed to be a relic of the past, nine years after Parliament and the embassies picked up and moved to Berlin. But the little city on the Rhine, immortalized by John le Carre as ''a small town in Germany'' in his spy novel of the same title, has succeeded in the unlikely goal of remaking itself as a place of the future.
 Local officials and entrepreneurs combined shrewd spending and no small amount of federal largess with the city's prime location in the Rhine Valley to refashion it into an international campus for everything from medical research to alternative energy to the United Nations, which began opening offices here in 1996. 
 Since the Bundestag and the Chancellery left in 1999, Bonn, rather than watching employment plummet, has seen an increase of more than 12,000 jobs in a modest-size city of just 315,000 people.
 Bonn, like Germany itself, appears to have been written off far too soon. Unemployment in Germany is at its lowest level in 15 years. And while it is expected to slow, the German economy grew at an annual rate of 6 percent in the first quarter of this year. 
 Though it is bound to be overtaken by the breakneck growth of China, this old standby in Old Europe -- with only one-sixteenth of China's population -- is by many statistical measures still the world's third biggest economy, behind only the United States and Japan. It is also the world's leading exporter of goods, second to none thanks to its thriving, high-end manufacturing sector.
 The country's former Parliament building is now a convention center, with a bigger facility going up beside it amid a thicket of cranes. Bonn is also home to SolarWorld, one of the leading companies in Germany's top-flight solar-energy industry. 
 Health care accounts for 1 in 10 jobs in the city and surrounding area. The central government announced in March that Bonn had been selected as the site of a new $1 billion dementia research center. 
 Downtown, the dominant feature of the city's skyline has appeared since the central government left. The 40-story steel and glass Post Tower of Deutsche Post, the postal service that employs 7,000 people in and around Bonn, towers over the city. It opened in December 2002, two years after Deutsche Post went public. Deutsche Telekom is the region's largest employer, with some 12,000 employees. 
 ''It's really a city that I feel growing in importance and not the other way around,'' said Torbjorn Possne, an executive at the wireless equipment maker Ericsson, which has offices here.
 Both Germany and its former capital, which former Chancellor Helmut Kohl referred to as a ''symbol of conspicuous modesty,'' have reasons to be understated about their strengths. Germany's tendency to bury its power and influence in international institutions, chiefly the European Union but also the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, allows it to exert its influence without tempting accusations of revanchist ambitions after the two world wars. 
 For Bonn, the city's receipt of more than $2.2 billion from the federal government from 1994 to 2004 to ease the transition of losing Parliament, bred no small amount of resentment around the country. And by law the city held on to some 20,000 government jobs, including the headquarters of half a dozen ministries. Taxpayer groups say the result is wasted money and commuting time for employees shuttling back and forth from Berlin, and environmentalists have complained about the excess pollution as a result of the excessive air travel.
 ''One remains very reserved about it,'' said Jorg Haas, chief executive at HWB AG, a private equity group based in Bonn. 
 Mr. Haas is less reserved about the gap between his country's reputation and its economic reality. ''Germany is always written off, but if you look at the numbers it just isn't true,'' said Mr. Haas, who moved his previous software company to Bonn from Cologne in 2001. 
 ''In the past, we tried a great deal of offshoring in the countries to the east; we went to Hungary, to Poland,'' Mr. Haas said. ''We brought everything back because at the end of the day the most productive structure and the most affordable place to develop and produce software is Germany,'' he said, citing the education, efficiency and reliability of the workers, as well as the physical infrastructure in Germany. 
 Now Mr. Haas and his partners have bet their money on the future of Bonn, building a $465 million real estate development at a scenic bend in the Rhine. The luxury Elysion Hotel, under construction, was originally planned for 160 rooms, but strong local growth led them back to the drawing board to expand it to 254 rooms. 
 The views of the Rhine from Mr. Haas's office -- with long, narrow barges filled with sand and stone heading toward the Netherlands -- are breathtaking, as are those of the peaks of the Siebengebirge hills, including the famous Petersberg and the Drachenfels, where, according to some legends, Siegfried slew the dragon. 
 The city still benefits from its time as the cold war capital. The federal government spent half a century trying to give Bonn the trappings of a historic capital. As a result, Bonn sometimes feels like a small city on steroids, with all the perks and benefits normally associated with big-city living, like a subway system and top-notch museums and concert halls, not to mention international schools. 
 Its time as the capital also gave the city name recognition few smaller cities could hope for, which helped it gain a reputation for medical tourism among civil servants from less developed countries. 
 Jurgen Reul, a specialist in neuroradiology, just opened a private clinic specializing in minimally invasive surgery for neurovascular and spine problems. Operations started on the first of the month and foreign patients from everywhere from Persian Gulf states to Russia have helped the clinic fully book its first month of appointments, leaving it with a waiting list.
 ''Bonn was pronounced dead, and then everybody went ahead and proved the opposite,'' Dr. Reul said. ''Now there's a gold rush mood.'' Dr. Reul has a unique perspective. Before starting his medical studies, he worked as a police officer on diplomatic security details in the mid-1970s. ''We used to say that it was a sleepy nest of bureaucrats,'' he said. ''It's a living city now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A business park being built near the Rhine in Bonn, which can feel like a small city on steroids. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN SPECHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ENERGY RESEARCH (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); STATISTICS (70%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); POSTAL SERVICE (63%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (56%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%); DPW (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (58%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



480 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Grows in West Over Region's Efforts on Firefighting

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO 

 BODY:
As fire season arrives in the West, there are growing doubts about the region's ability to attack the kind of sweeping blazes that devastated parts of California last year.
 The cost of fuel in fire trucks, a scramble to hire new firefighters and new budget constraints have sowed anxiety as a persistent drought worsens in California and elsewhere, even as heavy rains cause flooding in other parts of the country.
 Here in San Diego County, where eight people died in two big fires last year, a long-recommended regional county fire department has still not been created, and the San Diego city fire chief has warned that a number of homes built ever closer into wild lands face peril in another major blaze.
 On Wednesday, the union representing federal firefighters testified before Congress that nearly a third of the federal fire engines in California are unavailable because of staffing shortfalls. Many firefighters have retired or moved to higher-paying jobs, said Casey Judd, the union's business manager. 
 Over all, the United States Forest Service and other agencies ''are not as prepared for the wildfire season as the agencies would like us to blindly believe,'' Mr. Judd said in an interview.
 In other Western states, high gas prices are battering firefighting budgets, tough economic times are making it harder to recruit volunteers in some rural areas, and the prospect of deep cuts in assistance from the Forest Service is darkening the horizon. 
 ''Federal and state fire agencies are looking at what they can do to control costs; the local departments are just looking to keep fuel in their trucks,'' said Brett Waters, the fire chief in Belgrade, Mont., and president of the Montana County Fire Wardens Association. ''You're going to see this year, more than before, a lot of discussion about who's paying for what.''
 The budget crimping has meant less field training and reconnaissance of conditions, fire officials said, raising concerns that firefighters will not have a full picture of the potential danger.
 ''The best offense is preparation and training -- it's really tough when you have to reduce that because of the budget,'' said Bob Roper, the county fire chief in Ventura County, Calif.
 State and federal officials have issued statements and organized events displaying new fire trucks to send the message that improvements have been made since the swarm of wildfires last year, including the two in San Diego County that charred more than 288,000 acres and destroyed 2,100 structures.
 ''I think we are as ready as we can be,'' said Ruben Grijalva, the director of California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. The state's largest fire department, it has, among other steps, increased the size of crews on its 336 engines, already deployed ''supertanker'' aircraft weeks earlier than normal, and eliminated red tape that delayed use of some military aircraft last year, Mr. Grijalva said.
 But sagging under a $15 billion budget deficit, California is well behind meeting recommendations made after the state's worst wildfire season on record in 2003. It has not added the 150 engines a commission recommended, though the state is delivering 15 this year to local departments and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's budget, under negotiation with the State Legislature, asks for money to meet the larger goal in the next several years.
 ''We are going to go and provide those kinds of resources as we have money,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, said at a recent news conference where he criticized a ''dysfunctional budget system'' as making it difficult to find the money for added fire protection.
 What is more, the Forest Service has proposed cutting back state grants for training and personnel in its 2009 budget.
 ''It would cut our ability to train volunteers and supply equipment,'' said Bill Crapser, the state forester for Wyoming. 
 And because local agencies are usually the first responders to a fire -- and can often control small fires before they become conflagrations that involve the Forest Service and cost millions of dollars to fight -- the policy is shortsighted, Mr. Crapser said. 
 ''In the long run,'' he said, ''it would increase their fire costs, not decrease them.''
 Mark E. Rey, the Agriculture Department under secretary who oversees the Forest Service, said proposed cuts in state aid programs for fire preparation had been to some extent made up for by new money for conservation and forestry that was part of the farm bill recently passed by Congress. (President Bush vetoed the bill on Wednesday.)
 But Mr. Rey acknowledged that choices were becoming tougher for everyone. The farm bill, for example, put the onus on states to decide how the money was to be distributed, and some states might put more of that money into fire prevention and equipment than others.
 Last week, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, took note of an ominously early start of fire season after a round of fires in Northern California this month destroyed dozens of homes. Mrs. Feinstein called delays in hiring federal firefighters unacceptable and said that only 186 of the Forest Service's 276 engines in California were available to respond to the fires. 
 ''With the hot, dry and windy conditions that led to the 13 major fires in California,'' the senator said, ''I believe the agency should have been able to muster a stronger force. This is only further evidence that the Forest Service must act quickly to fill these critical staffing positions.''
 Mr. Rey declined to respond directly to the concerns raised by Mrs. Feinstein and the firefighters' union, saying it was improper to do so through the news media.
 But he said the service's resources were comparable to last year's and ''that allowed us to extinguish 98 percent of fires on initial attack.'' Firefighters and equipment could be moved from state to state as hot spots developed, Mr. Rey said. And the Forest Service had cleared or trimmed back 26 million acres of vegetation since 2000 to reduce fire danger.
 Still, he said, ''the largest independent variable is Mother Nature, and we don't know what she has in store for us.''
 Here in San Diego, the city fire department has far fewer fire stations than experts say are needed and officials are bracing for another bad year.
 The city has opened an additional fire station, plans over the next two years to clear the 1,190 acres of brush that abut housing developments and acquired a second water-dropping helicopter to arrive later in the summer. In addition, a county supervisor, Ron Roberts, has pushed the county to lease two ''super scooper'' firefighting planes for the fall as a stopgap.
 But the city's former fire chief, Jeff Bowman, has called the city and region woefully unprepared for another round of large blazes.
 ''There's a lot of talk, but very little action,'' Mr. Bowman said in an interview. ''The city has done virtually nothing.''
 Outside experts have recommended 20 additional fire stations in the city, and elected leaders in the city and county increasingly agree that the only way to find a steady source of revenue for expanded fire protection is through taxes. But voters in the city have twice rejected the idea, and opposition to any tax has proved a particularly strong message for winning candidates here.
 ''This county is a cheap county,'' Mayor Jerry Sanders of San Diego said. ''I shouldn't say cheap. It's thrifty. And they have not been prone to raise taxes. That makes it pretty difficult.''
 Tracy Jarman, the San Diego city fire chief, said residents must confront the reality that some homes built on the fringes of wild lands cannot be saved in a big fire. While cautiously optimistic that the additional aircraft and other measures will put the city on better footing in the event of another disaster, Ms. Jarman said, ''We didn't get here overnight; we're not going to climb out of it overnight.''
 A wet, cool late spring has raised spirits in some places, like Montana and parts of Wyoming, but one long spell of hot, windy weather could change everything. 
 ''Even though resources are scarce, we've been holding our own, so we'll cross our fingers and hope that system keeps working for us,'' said Tracy Dunford, the Utah state fire management officer at the Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands. ''But I can see a situation where we come up short.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fires like this one near the town of Jamul, in the San Diego area, ravaged parts of Southern California last year, and the 2008 season threatens to be worse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 Tracy Jarman, right, the San Diego fire chief, said residents would have to face the reality that some homes built on the fringes of wild lands could not be saved in a big fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (91%); FOREST FIRES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DROUGHT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); WEATHER (71%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); VOLUNTEERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



481 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 452 words

PERSON: Donaldson Pillsbury 

HEADLINE: Donaldson C. Pillsbury, 67; Helped Sotheby's Out of Morass

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Donaldson C. Pillsbury, the lawyer who guided Sotheby's, the auction house, through a welter of legal problems and helped restore its reputation after a price-fixing scandal, died on Thursday in Old Lyme, Conn. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. 
 The cause was a heart attack he suffered after returning from a bike ride, said Fraser P. Seitel, a family friend.
 Mr. Pillsbury, a longtime partner at Davis Polk & Wardwell who specialized in banking law, came out of retirement to become Sotheby's worldwide general counsel in 1998. He could not have expected what lay ahead. In 2000 the auction house was charged with colluding with its chief competitor, Christie's, to fix the price of commissions paid by sellers. The chairmen and chief executives of both houses were found to be conspirators, and A. Alfred Taubman, the chairman of Sotheby's, went to prison.
 In addition, to settle a civil suit, the houses agreed to pay $256 million each to resolve a class-action civil suit brought by more than 100,000 of their customers. Sotheby's, a public company, faced stockholder wrath as well. 
 It was Mr. Pillsbury's daunting task to formulate and execute the strategy that would not only bring the legal attack on Sotheby's to an end but also cauterize the wound to the company's reputation and allow it to survive.
 ''Don helped us navigate through an incredibly complicated legal and public company environment, in many ways allowing me to feel optimistic about our future when our future was, in fact, very challenging,'' Bill Ruprecht, the chief executive of Sotheby's, said in an e-mail message on Tuesday. Mr. Pillsbury was named a chairman of Sotheby's North and South America earlier this year.
 Donaldson Clark Pillsbury was born in Minneapolis on Sept. 14, 1940, the great-great grandson of a founder of the Pillsbury Company and the son of John S. Pillsbury, Jr., an insurance executive. He attended the St. Paul's School in New Hampshire and then Yale. He spent two years at University College, Oxford, earning a degree in philosophy, politics and economics, then returned to Yale for law school. 
 Mr. Pillsbury joined Davis Polk in 1967, became a partner within five years rather than the usual seven and shortly afterward became the firm's lead lawyer for J. P. Morgan. During the Iranian hostage crisis of 1980 and 1981, he represented the bank, which had made substantial loans to Iran.
 Mr. Pillsbury is survived by his wife, Marnie; a son, Donaldson Clark Pillsbury Jr., of San Francisco; two daughters, Blair Pillsbury Enders of Manhattan and Wendy Pillsbury Eichmann of Greenwich, Conn.; five grandchildren; and three siblings, John S. Pillsbury III, L. Harrison Pillsbury and Katharine Jose.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donaldson Pillsbury (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 2004) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); AUCTIONS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PRICE FIXING (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); BANKING LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); SCANDALS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (92%); PILLSBURY CO (64%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (64%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (64%)

A ALFRED TAUBMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

CATEGORY: Art, Law

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



482 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Hearst Chief Executive Resigns Over Policy Differences With Family Trust

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The Hearst Corporation announced on Wednesday the unexpected resignation of its president and chief executive, Victor F. Ganzi, citing unspecified ''irreconcilable policy differences'' with the Hearst family trust that owns the company.
 Hearst owns Cosmopolitan and The San Francisco Chronicle, and is an investor in dozens of well-known media companies.
 Frank A. Bennack Jr., who headed the company for more than two decades before handing it off to Mr. Ganzi, the successor he had groomed, will return as president and chief executive while the company searches for a long-term replacement. 
 The ouster of a media chieftain is usually preceded by public signs of trouble, but Mr. Ganzi's fall after six years came as a surprise to executives at Hearst and some of its major joint venture partners, and to investment bankers who track the company closely. They insisted on anonymity to avoid damaging their relationships with Hearst management.
 They said there had been disagreement in the company over recent moves to deepen its investment in newspapers, contrary to the conventional wisdom among analysts and investors, but they could not say whether that was the reason for the shake-up. In the last year, Hearst invested $288 million in the MediaNews Group, a struggling newspaper chain, bought two small newspapers in Connecticut, and announced plans to build a new printing plant for The Times-Union in Albany.
 One person briefed on the company's strategies said: ''The word had come from on high that they weren't doing enough getting into digital, nothing big enough to fundamentally change the business model. But I don't know of anyone who thought they were leading up to a move to remove him.''
 ''This is a company that has historically been very stable, that doesn't fire people,'' one banker said. ''This comes as a surprise to everyone.''
 Under Mr. Ganzi, Hearst has diversified extensively into new businesses, including online ventures, though it remains primarily a magazine, television and newspaper company. The company has recently acquired or bought large stakes in Fitch Ratings and a long list of video game, dating, shopping and advertising Web sites, and it entered into advertising and technology partnerships with other companies to enhance newspapers' performance online.
 Hearst's inner workings are opaque even for a privately held company; it has kept its disputes internal. But analysts and bankers, as well as Hearst executives, say it is highly profitable, tightly contains costs and eschews borrowing. It paid cash in building its unusual headquarters tower on West 57th Street in Manhattan, which opened in 2006.
 The company's statement announcing Mr. Ganzi's departure said his disagreement ''about the future direction of the company'' was with the board of trustees of the Hearst family trust; it did not say he had clashed with the company's board of directors. The trustees include five Hearst family members and eight others, most of them longtime former Hearst Corporation executives. All the trustees are also among the company's 20 directors; one, George R. Hearst Jr., is the company's chairman.
 William Randolph Hearst, who died in 1951, created the trust to give his heirs ownership of the company, but limit their say in its operation. Some family members have raised the possibility of a legal challenge to the trust, which will not dissolve -- and give the Hearsts direct control of the company -- until the death of the last Hearst heir who was living in 1951.
 The company has reported publicly that it had record cash flow in 15 of the last 16 years, though it is not clear whether that is partly due to expansion by acquisition.
 Hearst reported that last year, excluding its new acquisitions, newspaper revenue fell 6 percent and magazine revenue rose 6 percent -- somewhat better than the industry as a whole.
 Hearst publishes 15 daily newspapers, including The Houston Chronicle; 31 weekly papers; and 19 magazines in the United States, including Cosmopolitan, Redbook, O The Oprah Magazine, Esquire and Good Housekeeping. It has a growing business overseas in versions of its magazines produced in partnership with local publishers.
 Hearst's broadcast unit, which includes 26 television stations, recorded a 3 percent drop in revenue last year. Its entertainment and syndication unit, which includes large stakes in ESPN, A&E, Lifetime and the History Channel, reported a 10 percent revenue increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (88%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (62%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (98%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (98%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (98%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



483 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Agree to Ease Foreign Investment

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
China and the United States, concluding two days of high-level economic talks, announced Wednesday that they would step up their cooperation on energy and the environment and also try to negotiate a new treaty to ban discriminatory practices that block foreign investments in both countries. 
 Talks, however, to produce the investment accord, which administration officials hailed as the major achievement of the meeting this week, could slip into next year and might have to be completed by the next American president. 
 After two days of discussions at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md., there were no major breakthroughs to ease frictions over trade, currency, food and product safety and other issues between the United States and China. But the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., hailed the session as positive.
 ''Our discussions have gained momentum, leading to progress on a number of fronts this week and creating a foundation for timely progress going forward,'' Mr. Paulson said at the Treasury Department here, after returning midday from the Naval Academy. 
 He said he expected to hold the fifth in a series of these meetings, which he started at the end of 2006, in December in China. But by then the presidential election will be over, complicating whatever ceremonies the Chinese are likely to have.
 Although the Chinese delegation was welcomed by President Bush at the White House, many experts say that one reason the Chinese have been slow to respond to American pressure this year is that they may be waiting to make concessions on trade and finance issues until a new administration takes office.
 Leading Democrats are already warning the administration not to conclude any new arrangements for investment safeguards and trade that could tie a future administration's hands. They also criticized the administration for not pushing China harder on trade issues.
 The Chinese praised the session in Annapolis as positive. Wang Qishan, the vice premier who is China's chief envoy in the economic talks, called the talks a ''complete success'' and said the so-called strategic economic dialogue should continue, a comment that Mr. Paulson and his aides appreciated.
 Mr. Paulson began the talks with China two years ago, shortly after he left Goldman Sachs to join the Bush administration. He has led delegations of Cabinet members twice in China and twice in the United States, and he said at a briefing Wednesday that he hoped the next president would continue the process.
 One measure of the dialogue's success, Mr. Paulson said this week, was that China has allowed its currency, the yuan, to appreciate more than 20 percent since mid-2005. The undervalued yuan has been the focus of criticism of China in Congress, where lawmakers charge that the low value has artificially made Chinese exports cheaper.
 But recently, along with the rise in the value of the yuan, American exports to China have grown at a faster rate than imports from China, and the currency issue has become more muted among lawmakers. The trade deficit of the United States with China was more than $250 billion last year.
 Along with complaints about the trade deficit, American businesses now charge that China is increasingly using regulations, industry standards and other methods to discourage American investments and develop its own ''national champions'' in telecommunications, financial services and other areas.
 American foreign investment in China reached $22 billion in 2006, more than twice the amount four years earlier. But Mr. Paulson and other administration officials say that China has been backsliding on its openness to foreign investments, especially in financial services like insurance and credit cards.
 China, on the other hand, charges that American officials have been too quick to invoke ''national security'' to block its investments in the United States. The Chinese also remain upset about the furor in 2005 when a Chinese government energy company tried to buy the Unocal Corporation, an American oil company, but backed down in the face of American criticism.
 A new bilateral investment treaty would try to ease complaints on both sides with standards for nondiscriminatory treatment of investments, clear and fair regulations, and arbitration of disputes. China has similar treaties with several European and Asian countries.
 American business interests reacted positively when the treaty talks were announced, though some comments were guarded because it was a pledge to negotiate something in the future, not to do something now.
 Other announcements from the talks on Wednesday involved incremental steps to move down a path that was agreed upon in a previous session. In Beijing in December, the two sides vowed to develop a 10-year framework for cooperation on energy and the environment. 
 This week, they set up ''working groups'' on that goal to pursue eliminating trade barriers to environmental goods, cooperating in sudden energy emergencies and cracking down on forest management and illegal logging. American environmentalists have labeled China a major purchaser of logs harvested illegally around the world.
 In the investment area, besides the talks for a treaty, the two sides agreed to modest steps aimed at making it easier for the United States to operate financial services companies or invest in China. China also agreed to invest its own government-held reserves without regard to political objectives.
 Further pledges were made to make Chinese rules more clear and to allow American credit rating agencies to operate more freely in China.
 In another contentious issue, involving a request by Washington to station American personnel in China to inspect the safety of food, animal feed and other products, the two sides repeated an earlier promise to bring that step about but to work out details later.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wang Qishan, a Chinese vice premier, and the Treasury secretary, Henry Paulson, at the Naval Academy in Annapolis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); NAVIES (70%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (70%); PRODUCT SAFETY (69%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



484 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: The Muck of the Irish

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
 Europeans have spent a lot of time in recent years asking Americans how they could be dumb enough to make the same mistake twice in electing George W. Bush. But when it comes to sheer electoral crassness, it's hard to beat what the Irish have just done. 
 I can't think of a country that's benefited from European Union membership more than Ireland. It has catapulted itself in a few decades from beer-soaked backwater to the Celtic Tiger whose growth rates, foreign investment and rags-to-riches story were the envy of every languishing small nation with a thirst for a makeover. 
 Enormous E.U. farm subsidies, access for foreign investors to the E.U. market, and the liberation from a Britain complex afforded by new European horizons all contributed to the rebranding of Ireland. Dublin was suddenly hip; the peat bogs were passe. No wonder the Irish adopted the euro with elan while the British shrunk from ''the Continent'' and stuck with sterling.
 Yet here we have the Irish, in a fit of Euro-bashing pique worthy of the worst of little-Englandism, rejecting the renegotiated Lisbon treaty essential for the functioning of an expanded 27-member E.U. Biting the hand that feeds you does not begin to describe this act of bloody-mindedness. 
 The Lisbon Treaty is essential. It alone can create a streamlined decision-making mechanism for a 27-member union. It alone can forge the meaningful presidency and foreign-affairs posts that will give the E.U. the increased political clout that its economic weight demands. At a time of flux in global power, with the United States overextended and China and India emergent, Europe needs coherence to count. 
 I know, the Irish, like the rest of us, were looking for someone to blame for soaring gas prices and food inflation and unresponsive politicians and new economic pressures, and what better opportunity than a referendum on a still impenetrable E.U. treaty that was once billed as a ''constitution'' and is now the downsized nightmare of every Brussels bureaucrat? 
 Still, what the Irish did was unconscionable. It makes me despair of a Europe that should be proud of what it's achieved in absorbing the freed former vassal-nations of the Soviet Union in Central Europe. But instead of rejoicing at a Europe ''whole and free,'' Europeans have been in a funk of which the Irish ''No'' is the latest expression. 
 Yes, it's more complicated running a 27-member E.U. than a cozy 12-member club. Yes, Polish plumbers might show up in Western Europe and take a job or two. Yes, European institutions can seem remote. But measured on any sensible historical scale, the pettiness of Europeans confronted by the need to reform a post-Berlin-Wall E.U. has been mind-boggling. 
 Who cares about Yalta or the Gulag when you can rail at some Brussels functionary trying to regulate the contents of beer or the permissible curve in a banana? 
 It's been interesting watching this European drama from Turkey, a country that has been on the European Union membership waiting list for close to a half-century, and has become disillusioned with the whole process. Enthusiasm has given way to almost universal mistrust of European intentions. 
 The fact that the French agriculture minister, Michel Barnier, said the Irish referendum showed that Europeans were afraid of an E.U. ''without borders and limits'' was immediately noted. Nobody here has any illusions about what a planned French referendum on Turkish membership would mean. The French Euro-funk is just as acute as the Irish. 
 Of course, there have been reassuring noises from some E.U. officials about the so-called enlargement process, but Hans-Gert Pottering, the president of the European Parliament, was probably the most honest in declaring that the Irish ''No'' meant further expansion was impossible, with the possible exception of Croatia. 
 All this is wrongheaded. Turkish membership of the E.U. is important -- Bush is right about that -- for historical reasons as overarching as Europe's debt to the nations Yalta imprisoned. No more important bridge could be forged at this moment between the Christian and Muslim worlds. A commitment was made back in the 1960s. It should be honored. 
 Europe needs to get over its funk. To come into force, the treaty requires ratification by all member states. Others must now proceed with the ratification process. E.U. history is full of acts of ingenuity that have kept the Euro bicycle from toppling. The months ahead should be used to find one to deal with the ungrateful Irish. 
 Failing that, the Turks could hardly be blamed for turning away from a Europe beset by institutional paralysis and a Lilliputian view of history. I suspect other nations would do the same because it would be clear that the idea of a political Europe is dead, replaced by the narrow insularity the Irish just demonstrated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); REFERENDUMS (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (54%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%) EUROPE (97%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



485 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Bad Day in the Rose Garden

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
It's very easy, in our chaotic world, to lose track. Did you know, for instance, that ''ER'' is still on television? That ''The Phantom of the Opera'' is still on Broadway? That Hugh Hefner is still dating? 
 It was in this spirit that I looked up at CNN on Wednesday and noted that George W. Bush is still the president. 
 Yes! There he was in the Rose Garden, unveiling his plan for reducing the price of oil. A little grayer, but strangely unchanged. When he was complaining about the way the Democrats wrote last year's omnibus spending bill, I swear I heard him call it the ''ominous spending bill.''
 In a major change of policy, the president announced that he wanted to end a federal ban on offshore drilling and open up drillers' access to the outer continental shelf. 
 He repeatedly referred to the outer continental shelf as ''the O.C.S.,'' making the whole proposal sound a little like a search for energy sources in an old teen TV series.
 The O.C.S. was only one part of a four-point recipe for producing tons and tons of American-bred gasoline in the future. Bush wants to search for oil offshore, out West, in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, in the basement, beneath the Washington Monument -- you name it, he's ready to drill.
 This would require a great deal of excruciatingly controversial legislation, all of which he demanded the Democrats in Congress pass before the Fourth of July recess.
 Otherwise, everything is their fault.
 ''They will need to explain why $4-a-gallon gasoline is not enough incentive for them to act,'' the president said. It was sort of mesmerizing. Imagine some half-forgotten celebrity popping up out of nowhere and announcing that he wants an Academy Award. By Tuesday. And if he doesn't get it, he cannot be responsible for the consequences.
 The Rose Garden event was peculiar, and only partly because the chief executive of the United States suddenly announced that Congress has two weeks to reverse an offshore drilling policy that it has had in place since 1981.
 There was also the matter of John McCain. Poor McCain has been trying desperately to convince the public that there's a vast, vast gulf between him and the current administration. It's been tougher than he expected. 
 In the past, McCain parted company with Bush on everything from torture to taxes. But now he's fudged some of those differences, and completely caved on others. 
 There's not much left but global warming, and the people who really, really care about that will probably be looking to see which candidate Al Gore likes best.
 Earlier this week, McCain made news when, in a change of position, he called for allowing more offshore drilling. It was his moment to betray the environmentalists in the name of cheaper gasoline. You'd think the president would have the decency to wait, and refrain from holding a press conference that made the two of them sound like soul mates.
 Really, it isn't fair. Bush has already created a national antipathy toward the Republicans so intense that the party would be hard pressed to hold its ground with Abraham Lincoln and Tiger Woods on the ticket this fall. The least he could do is stay put long enough for McCain to disagree with him.
 McCain is struggling to put together some kind of economic policy that gives him the aura of a candidate who feels the public's pain. 
 First, there was that extremely cheesy idea of a federal gas-tax holiday. It was dead on arrival the day he proposed it. Besides, any position that leaves you lashing out at ''so-called economists'' is not going to instill a deep sense of confidence in the voting public.
 The way he's been working the energy issue only makes him look like a man with no inner core. For instance, the guy who was speaking in Houston this week was considerably different from the one who did a town-hall meeting in New York last week.
 The New York McCain laced into oil companies for their ''obscene'' profits and their failure to invest in alternative sources of energy. ''I think it's an abrogation of their responsibility as citizens,'' he said, assuring the audience he was ''very angry with oil companies.''
 The Houston McCain seemed to have gotten over his wrath, and contented himself with lacing into Obama's plan for a windfall-profits tax on oil companies. It would, he said, discourage oil exploration. 
 And worst of all, it ''was President Jimmy Carter's big idea, too.''
 Even if Americans had enough historical memory to recall what they didn't like about Jimmy Carter's energy policy, this is a bad strategy. 
 McCain does not want this to be an election in which the public is asked whether they'd rather have Carter II or Bush III. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (65%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); AL GORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



486 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: House Leaders Reach Deal On Top Spending Measure

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
House leaders struck a bipartisan deal on Wednesday night on a major spending measure that would provide money for the war in Iraq through the end of the Bush administration, establish a significant new education benefit for veterans, and meet Democratic demands for added unemployment benefits.
 The bill, which could be voted on as early as Thursday in the House, would effectively bring to a close the two-year battle between President Bush and Congressional Democrats over war financing by allocating about $163 billion for combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through early next year without imposing conditions like a withdrawal deadline. 
 White House officials took part in the talks that produced the agreement, suggesting the president was willing to sign the emerging legislation.
 ''I think we have an agreement,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, who worked out the final deal in talks with Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, as well as senior members of both parties from the Appropriations and Ways and Means Committees. 
 The measure would entitle veterans, those who enlisted after the Sept. 11 attacks and served three years or more, to what amounts to four years of college education at a state university. To win Republican support, House leaders dropped a plan to pay the $50 billion cost of the program through a tax on affluent Americans and also agreed that some of the benefits could be transferred to immediate family members.
 In response to a Democratic push to aid laid-off workers whose unemployment pay is running out, the bill would extend jobless benefits for 13 weeks in all states, according to Congressional officials briefed on the contents of the measure. But in a concession, they said, the bill would drop a plan for an additional 13 weeks of benefits for the hardest-hit states and reinstate a requirement that workers must have put in 20 weeks on the job to qualify.
 The bill, one of the few must-pass measures facing a highly partisan election-year Congress, would also allocate about $2.5 billion to deal with the flooding in the Midwest and provide money for the continuing recovery in Louisiana from Hurricane Katrina. It would also block a series of new administration rules that lawmakers said would cut Medicaid health services for the poor.
 ''This bill is a real victory,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It gets our troops the funding they need for success, without hamstringing our commanders in the field with politically motivated war restrictions. It provides new resources to help our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get a better education, without raising taxes unnecessarily on the American people. It also does not include billions in unrelated wasteful Washington pork that was added by Senate Democrats.''
 While the measure does not include most of the restrictions on war spending long opposed by the administration, Democratic aides said the measure would retain a prohibition on permanent American military bases in Iraq and also call on the Iraqi government to share equally in the cost of rebuilding the country.
 The willingness of House Republicans and Democrats to reach a deal showed that both sides concluded it was expedient for them to dispose of politically troublesome issues like the war money and the unemployment aid. Mr. Bush, should he sign the measure, would be relenting as well since he had earlier indicated he would reject the veterans program and the unemployment aid.
 Senate leaders were not directly involved in the talks, and the tentative deal does not include some of the spending programs that senators had included in their own version, leaving it in question whether the Senate would go along with the House agreement. But the plan did take into account the Senate view that the new G. I. benefit promoted by Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, not be underwritten through a new tax.
 ''Early reports indicate the House will send us a supplemental that includes a G. I. Bill, extends unemployment insurance and provides disaster relief -- three important priorities we have been pushing for some time,'' said Jim Manley, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. ''We look forward to reviewing the House's complete proposal, and we will take it up quickly once we receive it.''
 The agreement was something of a surprise because many lawmakers and aides expected the House to pass a version that would draw little Republican support, necessitating another round of negotiations and votes. But the speaker, Nancy Pelosi, made it clear in recent days that she wanted a measure that Congress could pass and would be signed by the president before Congress breaks for the Fourth of July next week. The Pentagon has raised the possibility that workers might have to be furloughed if Congress did not act by then.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MEDICAID (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); HURRICANES (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (59%); STENY HOYER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



487 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Will $4 Gasoline Trump a 27-Year-Old Ban?

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One was an oilman from Texas, the other a high-paid energy executive. Despite that, or perhaps because of it, for seven years George W. Bush and Dick Cheney have been unable to persuade Congress and the public that domestic oil drilling is an answer to America's energy needs.
 With the clock running down on his presidency, Mr. Bush made one last push Wednesday by calling on Congress to end the 27-year moratorium on most offshore drilling. With oil at more than $130 a barrel, gasoline over $4 a gallon and the broader economy threatened, the White House is betting it can finally break a decades-old Washington deadlock between those who favor domestic oil exploration and those who say conservation is the key. 
 The question is whether Americans are feeling enough pain at the pump to force their elected leaders to go along, and whether it will make any real difference if they do.
 ''If Congressional leaders leave for the Fourth of July recess without taking action, they will need to explain why $4-a-gallon gasoline is not enough incentive for them to act,'' Mr. Bush said Wednesday in the White House Rose Garden. ''And Americans will rightly ask how high oil -- how high gas prices have to rise before the Democratic-controlled Congress will do something about it.''
 Other Republicans, notably Senator John McCain, the party's presumptive presidential nominee, are abandoning their long-held opposition to drilling in coastal waters. Newt Gingrich, former speaker of the House, recently posted an online petition, headlined ''Drill Here, Drill Now,'' to strengthen support for domestic oil exploration, and gathered 650,000 signatures in two weeks.
 ''My prediction is that unless oil prices go down below $60 a barrel, you are now at a fundamental turning point at which you will see a new political coalition emerge,'' Mr. Gingrich said in an interview. ''This is a huge populist issue, and politicians who ignore it do so at their own peril.''
 But Democrats do not feel especially imperiled. Although one moderate Democrat -- Senator Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana, who has long advocated expanding drilling in the Gulf of Mexico -- is drafting legislation aimed at increasing domestic production, the leadership is holding fast. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said Wednesday, ''We cannot drill our way to energy independence.''
 If anything, Democrats say, the White House action gives them a chance to paint Mr. Bush as beholden to the oil industry and Mr. McCain as a clone of Mr. Bush, a message that will only grow louder as the November election draws near.
 ''To have President Bush be the face of this issue for the Republicans means having the worst possible spokesman,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic strategist who helped run Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign.
 ''What Republicans are doing for themselves right now,'' Mr. Garin added, ''is deepening the impression that they are the party of Big Oil.''
 Whether $4-a-gallon gasoline is producing more support for domestic drilling is hard to discern. A Gallup poll conducted last month found that 57 percent of those surveyed favored drilling for oil in coastal and wilderness areas that are now off limits, but there are no earlier data for comparison. In March, before the latest spike in gasoline prices, a Pew Research Center survey found that 50 percent opposed drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, in Alaska, while 42 percent were in favor. 
 Mr. Bush has long supported the proposal to drill along a coastal strip of the refuge. But he has not before taken up the cause of offshore drilling, partly because it was such a hot-button issue in the state of Florida, where his brother Jeb was governor. Congress first adopted its moratorium against drilling on the outer continental shelf, 3 to 200 miles offshore, in 1981. In 1990, Mr. Bush's father signed an executive order reinforcing the ban; Mr. Bush promised Wednesday to rescind the order if Congress ended its moratorium.
 In the Rose Garden, the president made the case that in the long run, the solution to high prices was to reduce demand for oil by promoting alternative-energy technologies, a view widely shared across the political spectrum. But ''in the short run,'' he said, ''the American economy will continue to rely largely on oil, and that means we need to increase supply, especially here at home.''
 The federal Energy Information Administration estimates that 18 billion barrels of oil are in the area covered by the moratorium, and the White House says that is enough to match current American production for 10 years. But a 2007 analysis by the agency concluded that opening up drilling in the moratorium area ''would not have a significant impact on domestic crude oil and natural gas production or prices before 2030.''
 The primary concern about offshore drilling has been that unsightly oil rigs would dampen tourism, or that spills would threaten the environment. Advocates, and even critics, say new technology has greatly reduced the risk of spills. But David B. Sandalow, an energy expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington who advises Democrats, argues that the amount of oil that could be recovered is so small as not to be worth the environmental risk.
 ''It's like walking an extra 20 feet a day to lose weight,'' he said. ''It's just not enough to make a difference.''
 But Robin West, who managed the offshore leasing program for the Reagan administration and is now chairman of PFC Energy, a consulting company, argues that additional supply could make a difference in price, especially if domestic drilling were coupled with aggressive conservation efforts. He said it would take time, though -- a minimum of five or six years, even if drilling were to begin today.
 ''A logical energy policy,'' Mr. West said, ''is to encourage production and discourage consumption. And prices will go down.''
 But with just seven months left in his presidency, the relationship between Mr. Bush and Congressional Democrats is already set, and unlikely to produce fresh agreement on what might be a logical energy policy, especially in the thick of a presidential election season.
 As Vin Weber, a Republican former congressman from Minnesota, said: ''I think we have been deadlocked on energy over ideological concerns for a long time, and the urgency in the country was not there to break out of this debate. And now the urgency of the country is there, and it's too late for this administration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush on Wednesday with Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne, left, and Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); POLITICS (70%); PETITIONS (69%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (73%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (58%); MARY LANDRIEU (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



488 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: DEALS WITH IRAQ ARE SET TO BRING OIL GIANTS BACK

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; James Glanz and Jad Mouawad contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Four Western oil companies are in the final stages of negotiations this month on contracts that will return them to Iraq, 36 years after losing their oil concession to nationalization as Saddam Hussein rose to power. 
 Exxon Mobil, Shell, Total and BP -- the original partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company -- along with Chevron and a number of smaller oil companies, are in talks with Iraq's Oil Ministry for no-bid contracts to service Iraq's largest fields, according to ministry officials, oil company officials and an American diplomat.
 The deals, expected to be announced on June 30, will lay the foundation for the first commercial work for the major companies in Iraq since the American invasion, and open a new and potentially lucrative country for their operations.
 The no-bid contracts are unusual for the industry, and the offers prevailed over others by more than 40 companies, including companies in Russia, China and India. The contracts, which would run for one to two years and are relatively small by industry standards, would nonetheless give the companies an advantage in bidding on future contracts in a country that many experts consider to be the best hope for a large-scale increase in oil production. 
 There was suspicion among many in the Arab world and among parts of the American public that the United States had gone to war in Iraq precisely to secure the oil wealth these contracts seek to extract. The Bush administration has said that the war was necessary to combat terrorism. It is not clear what role the United States played in awarding the contracts; there are still American advisers to Iraq's Oil Ministry. 
 Sensitive to the appearance that they were profiting from the war and already under pressure because of record high oil prices, senior officials of two of the companies, speaking only on the condition that they not be identified, said they were helping Iraq rebuild its decrepit oil industry. 
 For an industry being frozen out of new ventures in the world's dominant oil-producing countries, from Russia to Venezuela, Iraq offers a rare and prized opportunity. 
 While enriched by $140 per barrel oil, the oil majors are also struggling to replace their reserves as ever more of the world's oil patch becomes off limits. Governments in countries like Bolivia and Venezuela are nationalizing their oil industries or seeking a larger share of the record profits for their national budgets. Russia and Kazakhstan have forced the major companies to renegotiate contracts. 
 The Iraqi government's stated goal in inviting back the major companies is to increase oil production by half a million barrels per day by attracting modern technology and expertise to oil fields now desperately short of both. The revenue would be used for reconstruction, although the Iraqi government has had trouble spending the oil revenues it now has, in part because of bureaucratic inefficiency.
 For the American government, increasing output in Iraq, as elsewhere, serves the foreign policy goal of increasing oil production globally to alleviate the exceptionally tight supply that is a cause of soaring prices. 
 The Iraqi Oil Ministry, through a spokesman, said the no-bid contracts were a stop-gap measure to bring modern skills into the fields while the oil law was pending in Parliament. 
 It said the companies had been chosen because they had been advising the ministry without charge for two years before being awarded the contracts, and because these companies had the needed technology.
 A Shell spokeswoman hinted at the kind of work the companies might be engaged in. ''We can confirm that we have submitted a conceptual proposal to the Iraqi authorities to minimize current and future gas flaring in the south through gas gathering and utilization,'' said the spokeswoman, Marnie Funk. ''The contents of the proposal are confidential.''
 While small, the deals hold great promise for the companies. 
 ''The bigger prize everybody is waiting for is development of the giant new fields,'' Leila Benali, an authority on Middle East oil at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said in a telephone interview from the firm's Paris office. The current contracts, she said, are a ''foothold'' in Iraq for companies striving for these longer-term deals.
 Any Western oil official who comes to Iraq would require heavy security, exposing the companies to all the same logistical nightmares that have hampered previous attempts, often undertaken at huge cost, to rebuild Iraq's oil infrastructure.
 And work in the deserts and swamps that contain much of Iraq's oil reserves would be virtually impossible unless carried out solely by Iraqi subcontractors, who would likely be threatened by insurgents for cooperating with Western companies.
 Yet at today's oil prices, there is no shortage of companies coveting a contract in Iraq. It is not only one of the few countries where oil reserves are up for grabs, but also one of the few that is viewed within the industry as having considerable potential to rapidly increase production.
 David Fyfe, a Middle East analyst at the International Energy Agency, a Paris-based group that monitors oil production for the developed countries, said he believed that Iraq's output could increase to about 3 million barrels a day from its current 2.5 million, though it would probably take longer than the six months the Oil Ministry estimated.
 Mr. Fyfe's organization estimated that repair work on existing fields could bring Iraq's output up to roughly four million barrels per day within several years. After new fields are tapped, Iraq is expected to reach a plateau of about six million barrels per day, Mr. Fyfe said, which could suppress current world oil prices. 
 The contracts, the two oil company officials said, are a continuation of work the companies had been conducting here to assist the Oil Ministry under two-year-old memorandums of understanding. The companies provided free advice and training to the Iraqis. This relationship with the ministry, said company officials and an American diplomat, was a reason the contracts were not opened to competitive bidding. 
 A total of 46 companies, including the leading oil companies of China, India and Russia, had memorandums of understanding with the Oil Ministry, yet were not awarded contracts. 
 The no-bid deals are structured as service contracts. The companies will be paid for their work, rather than offered a license to the oil deposits. As such, they do not require the passage of an oil law setting out terms for competitive bidding. The legislation has been stalled by disputes among Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish parties over revenue sharing and other conditions. 
 The first oil contracts for the majors in Iraq are exceptional for the oil industry.
 They include a provision that could allow the companies to reap large profits at today's prices: the ministry and companies are negotiating payment in oil rather than cash. 
 ''These are not actually service contracts,'' Ms. Benali said. ''They were designed to circumvent the legislative stalemate'' and bring Western companies with experience managing large projects into Iraq before the passage of the oil law. 
 A clause in the draft contracts would allow the companies to match bids from competing companies to retain the work once it is opened to bidding, according to the Iraq country manager for a major oil company who did not consent to be cited publicly discussing the terms. 
 Assem Jihad, the Oil Ministry spokesman, said the ministry chose companies it was comfortable working with under the charitable memorandum of understanding agreements, and for their technical prowess. ''Because of that, they got the priority,'' he said. 
 In all cases but one, the same company that had provided free advice to the ministry for work on a specific field was offered the technical support contract for that field, one of the companies' officials said. 
 The exception is the West Qurna field in southern Iraq, outside Basra. There, the Russian company Lukoil, which claims a Hussein-era contract for the field, had been providing free training to Iraqi engineers, but a consortium of Chevron and Total, a French company, was offered the contract. A spokesman for Lukoil declined to comment. 
 Charles Ries, the chief economic official in the American Embassy in Baghdad, described the no-bid contracts as a bridging mechanism to bring modern technology into the fields before the oil law was passed, and as an extension of the earlier work without charge. 
 To be sure, these are not the first foreign oil contracts in Iraq, and all have proved contentious. 
 The Kurdistan regional government, which in many respects functions as an independent entity in northern Iraq, has concluded a number of deals. Hunt Oil Company of Dallas, for example, signed a production-sharing agreement with the regional government last fall, though its legality is questioned by the central Iraqi government. The technical support agreements, however, are the first commercial work by the major oil companies in Iraq. 
 The impact, experts say, could be remarkable increases in Iraqi oil output. 
 While the current contracts are unrelated to the companies' previous work in Iraq, in a twist of corporate history for some of the world's largest companies, all four oil majors that had lost their concessions in Iraq are now back. 
 But a spokesman for Exxon said the company's approach to Iraq was no different from its work elsewhere. 
 ''Consistent with our longstanding, global business strategy, ExxonMobil would pursue business opportunities as they arise in Iraq, just as we would in other countries in which we are permitted to operate,'' the spokesman, Len D'Eramo, said in an e-mailed statement. 
 But the company is clearly aware of the history. In an interview with Newsweek last fall, the former chief executive of Exxon, Lee Raymond, praised Iraq's potential as an oil-producing country and added that Exxon was in a position to know. ''There is an enormous amount of oil in Iraq,'' Mr. Raymond said. ''We were part of the consortium, the four companies that were there when Saddam Hussein threw us out, and we basically had the whole country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oil fields in the Iraqi province of Basra. Iraq produces about 2.5 million barrels of oil per day.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (95%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); OIL & GAS LEASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



489 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Driving Less, Americans Finally React to Sting of Gas Prices, a Study Says

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
As the price of gasoline quadrupled over the last decade, American drivers seemed to defy the laws of economics by pumping more into their vehicles year after year. 
 But this is the year American drivers appear to be finally succumbing to price shock at the pump, according to a new report by Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm affiliated with IHS Inc. It says the slowdown in the economy and soaring gasoline prices have finally persuaded Americans to drive fewer miles in fewer gas-guzzling vehicles.
 ''U.S. gasoline demand will likely decline in 2008 for the first time in more than 17 years,'' says the report to be released Thursday. ''For the first time since the 1970s and early 1980s the number of miles driven by Americans has clearly begun trending downward.'' 
 The Transportation Department reported on Wednesday that Americans drove 1.8 percent fewer miles on public roads in April 2008 compared with the same month last year, the sixth consecutive month of driving mileage declines. 
 The Cambridge Energy report cites some fundamental shifts in consumer behavior that suggest the beginning of an enduring trend. The report noted that in California, where gasoline prices have historically led the rest of the country, gasoline consumption has declined for two consecutive years and hybrid vehicle sales are rising.
 Now the rest of the country seems to be following. Sales of pickup trucks, minivans and sport utility vehicles have fallen below 50 percent of new passenger vehicle sales this year for the first time since 2001, the report says, as consumers turned to smaller vehicles in favor of fuel economy.
 ''It's kind of stunning,'' said Aaron F. Brady, a co-author of the report. ''It was over 50 percent as late as February and by May it fell under 44 percent. It's like falling off a cliff.''
 Drivers, meanwhile, are becoming more prudent in their driving habits, either by using public transportation, carpooling or just cutting down on unnecessary trips, the two authors said in an interview. ''Public transit ridership is surging all over the country,'' said Samantha Gross, the other author. 
 While total vehicle miles Americans traveled grew by nearly 3 percent a year from 1984 to 2004, the rate of growth slowed suddenly in 2005 and 2006 and has declined since then. 
 The last time gasoline consumption declined for a prolonged period was during the oil shocks in the late 1970s and early 1980s, when annual United States consumption declined by 12 percent. Fast-rising oil prices, a deep recession and improved fuel efficiency standards drove down demand for gasoline. 
 The same situation is beginning to emerge today, according to the report, and basic home economics explains the trends. Since the 1980s, demand for gasoline has climbed fairly steadily, except in late 1990 and 1991 because of a sharp price increase related to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and a recession. That is because spending on gasoline became a smaller percentage of family income, especially through the 1990s.
 Americans spent about 4.5 percent of their after-tax income on transportation fuels in 1981, according to Global Insight, a forecasting firm. As gasoline prices dropped and family incomes rose, that percentage dropped to 1.9 percent in 1998. Today, it is back to 4 percent or more. 
 The national price for unleaded gasoline would need to average $4.23 a gallon ''to create the same economic pain as in 1981,'' the Cambridge Energy report said. ''Once unthinkable, such a level is now within view.'' On Wednesday, gasoline averaged nearly $4.08 a gallon.
 It would take a sizable decline in consumption to get back to the levels of gasoline use only a generation ago.
 National gasoline consumption has grown over the last 25 years by 40 percent because of the growing popularity of sport utility vehicles and minivans as well as longer commutes to work from the suburbs. Low gasoline prices made the growth relatively painless, until the last three years or so.
 The Cambridge Energy report said gasoline demand growth slowed significantly from 2005 to 2007 and peaked last year. Demand in the first quarter of 2008 declined by 1.3 percent from the first quarter in 2007.
 Even if consumers start driving more, the report predicts that the efficiency of the American vehicle fleet will continue to improve. ''New fuel efficiency standards for light vehicles (scheduled to phase in starting in 2011) by themselves have the potential to begin reducing U.S. gasoline demand within the next decade,'' the report said.
 If gasoline prices remain high, motorists may well ''accelerate their preference shift toward more fuel-efficient vehicles,'' the report concluded. ''If these trends hold, then 2007 could stand as the peak year for U.S. gasoline demand.''
 The authors said they thought gasoline consumption would continue to ease even if gasoline prices went down, unlike in the 1980s and 1990s when consumption sprang back up as prices went down.
 ''With climate change concerns now, it's very likely that fuel efficiency will be at the forefront for the foreseeable future,'' said Ms. Gross, ''and it's unlikely we will go back to not caring about fuel efficiency the way we did in the late 1980s.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Fewer Miles: Americans drove less this April than in April last year, the sixth consecutive monththat has happened.(Source: Federal Highway Administration)Chart details line graph for miles driven. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); TRENDS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); GASOLINE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (70%)

COMPANY: IHS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



490 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: After Loss, FedEx Issues a Cautious Forecast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
FedEx, the international package delivery company, reported a fourth-quarter loss Wednesday and offered a gloomy outlook as it wrestled with a slumping American economy and soaring fuel costs. 
 FedEx predicted 2009 earnings of $4.75 to $5.25 a share, well below Wall Street expectations of $5.92 a share. The company expects to earn 80 cents to $1 a share in the first quarter of the current fiscal year. Analysts had forecast $1.27 a share.
 In the fourth quarter, which just ended, FedEx lost 78 cents a share, or $241 million, in contrast to a profit of $610 million, or $1.96 a share, for the same quarter last year.
 Excluding one-time charges, FedEx earned $1.45 a share for the quarter. Revenue rose 8 percent, to $9.87 billion, from $9.15 billion a year earlier. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial had expected $1.47 a share on revenue of $9.6 billion.
 FedEx, which owns the world's largest cargo airline, spent almost $1.4 billion on fuel in the fourth quarter, and those costs represented 14 percent of total operating expenses, said Dan Ortwerth, an analyst for Edward Jones.
 FedEx customers pay fuel surcharges, but those do not cover all of the increases. The company spent 54 percent more on fuel than it did for the same quarter last year, Mr. Ortwerth said, while the surcharges were up less than 30 percent.
 ''They don't try to recover the entire increase in fuel because that would really hurt the customer and they have the sense to invest in long-term customer relations,'' he said.
 Higher fuel costs, however, mean higher prices for FedEx services.
 ''The prices have gotten high enough that people are looking for other ways to ship their goods,'' said a Morgan Keegan analyst, Art Hatfield. And even customers who stay with FedEx may shift from express shipments to less expensive, slower services, he said.
 The fuel surcharges, which are added to the company's basic shipping rates, were 28 percent for June and will increase to 32.5 percent in July, Mr. Hatfield said.
 FedEx's chairman, Frederick W. Smith, said FedEx was confident it could deal with the economy's troubles by holding down expenses, limiting capital spending and expanding the company's international business.
 ''It's my opinion that great companies always improve their competitive positions in economic downturns,'' Mr. Smith said, ''and we intend to do just that.''
 FedEx said it would continue capital spending on overseas expansion, ''significant investments'' in more fuel-efficient aircraft and other projects related to its long-range strategies.
 FedEx said its outlook for the new fiscal year ''assumes no additional increases to current fuel prices and no further weakening in the economy.''
 The fourth-quarter earnings included a one-time charge of $891 million for the expected costs of renaming the company's office service and copying division from FedEx Kinko's to FedEx Office.
 FedEx shares fell $1.73, or 2.1 percent, to $82.60 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AIRLINES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (60%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



491 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: The Big Pander to Big Oil

 BODY:
It was almost inevitable that a combination of $4-a-gallon gas, public anxiety and politicians eager to win votes or repair legacies would produce political pandering on an epic scale. So it has, the latest instance being President Bush's decision to ask Congress to end the federal ban on offshore oil and gas drilling along much of America's continental shelf. 
 This is worse than a dumb idea. It is cruelly misleading. It will make only a modest difference, at best, to prices at the pump, and even then the benefits will be years away. It greatly exaggerates America's leverage over world oil prices. It is based on dubious statistics. It diverts the public from the tough decisions that need to be made about conservation. 
 There is no doubt that a lot of people have been discomfited and genuinely hurt by $4-a-gallon gas. But their suffering will not be relieved by drilling in restricted areas off the coasts of New Jersey or Virginia or California. The Energy Information Administration says that even if both coasts were opened, prices would not begin to drop until 2030. The only real beneficiaries will be the oil companies that are trying to lock up every last acre of public land before their friends in power -- Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney -- exit the political stage. 
 The whole scheme is based on a series of fictions that range from the egregious to the merely annoying. Democratic majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, noted the worst of these on Wednesday: That a country that consumes one-quarter of the world's oil supply but owns only 3 percent of its reserves can drill its way out of any problem -- whether it be high prices at the pump or dependence on oil exported by unstable countries in Persian Gulf. This fiction has been resisted by Barack Obama but foolishly embraced by John McCain, who seemed to be making some sense on energy questions until he jumped aboard the lift-the-ban bandwagon on Tuesday.
 A lesser fiction, perpetrated by the oil companies and, to some extent, by misleading government figures, is that huge deposits of oil and gas on federal land have been closed off and industry has had one hand tied behind its back by environmentalists, Democrats and the offshore protections in place for 25 years.
 The numbers suggest otherwise. Of the 36 billion barrels of oil believed to lie on federal land, mainly in the Rocky Mountain West and Alaska, almost two-thirds are accessible or will be after various land-use and environmental reviews. And of the 89 billion barrels of recoverable oil believed to lie offshore, the federal Mineral Management Service says fourth-fifths is open to industry, mostly in the Gulf of Mexico and Alaskan waters.
 Clearly, the oil companies are not starved for resources. Further, they do not seem to be doing nearly as much as they could with the land to which they've already laid claim. Separate studies by the House Committee on Natural Resources and the Wilderness Society, a conservation group, show that roughly three-quarters of the 90 million-plus acres of federal land being leased by the oil companies onshore and off are not being used to produce energy. That is 68 million acres altogether, among them potentially highly productive leases in the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska. 
 With that in mind, four influential House Democrats -- Edward Markey, Nick Rahall, Rahm Emanuel and Maurice Hinchey -- have introduced ''use it or lose it'' bills that would force the companies to begin exploiting the leases they have before getting any more. Companion bills have been introduced in the Senate, where suspicions also run high that industry's main objective is to stockpile millions of additional acres of public land before the Bush administration leaves town.
 This cannot be allowed to happen. The Congressional moratoriums on offshore drilling were put in place in 1981 and reaffirmed by subsequent Congresses to protect coastal economies that depend on clean water and clean coastlines. This was also the essential purpose of supplemental executive orders, the first of which was issued by Mr. Bush's father in 1990 after the disastrous Exxon Valdez oil spill the year before. 
 Given the huge resources available to the energy industry, there is no reason to undo these protections now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



492 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Campaign Tightens Control of Image and Access

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Julie Bosman and Sarah Wheaton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At a rally for Senator Barack Obama in Detroit on Monday, two Muslim women said they were prohibited from sitting behind the candidate because they were wearing head scarves and campaign volunteers did not want them to appear with him in news photographs or live television coverage.
 The Obama campaign said it quickly called the women to apologize after learning of the incident. ''It doesn't reflect the orientation of the campaign,'' said Anita Dunn, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''I do not believe that mistake will be made again.'' 
 But the incident, first reported Wednesday by Politico.com, pointed to pitfalls the campaign faces as it moves into the general election and seeks to maintain control of Mr. Obama's image by tightly managing his public appearances.
 The Obama campaign is vigilantly fighting erroneous information that has spread on the Internet that he is Muslim -- he is, in fact, Christian -- and emphasizing his patriotism and American story, with flags in abundance. In Washington on Wednesday, he invited photographers to his meeting with new members of his national security team and retired military officers supporting his candidacy.
 The campaign on Monday barred cameras from a large gathering of African-American civic leaders Mr. Obama attended. It recently refused to provide names of religious figures with whom Mr. Obama met in Chicago and directed some of them to avoid reporters by using a special exit. And on Wednesday, the campaign orchestrated Michelle Obama's appearance on the friendly set of ''The View'' and a flattering spread in the pages of Us Weekly. 
 ''One of the challenges that we are confronting very directly is dealing with the rumors and the e-mails, the inaccurate information about Senator Obama and Michelle Obama,'' Ms. Dunn said, ''and we're going to deal with that very aggressively through a number of mediums.''
 While the strategy has won compliments from political professionals of both parties, who say Mr. Obama's campaign is exhibiting a high level of discipline, it has also created some early turbulence for a candidate who has run on promises of openness and cultivated a grass-roots following and a cottage industry of homemade campaign videos, memorabilia and street murals.
 Mr. Obama's campaign is making a transition typical of any newly minted presidential nominee preparing for a general election race. It mirrors the stagecraft once so successfully practiced by the campaigns of President Bush to the envy -- and, sometimes, anger -- of Democrats. 
 ''This guy is one of two people who can be president of the United States,'' said Stuart Stevens, a Republican strategist for President Bush in his 2000 and 2004 campaigns. ''He's not going door-to door-in Iowa anymore, and I think people expect things to be different when you're the nominee.'' 
 ''The same with John McCain -- he's not going to be able to spend as much time in living rooms,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''It's just the nature of the game changing.''
 But Mr. McCain's campaign has been faulted for being too lax in protecting his image, facing specific criticism for his prime-time speech before a relatively small crowd and an odd green backdrop the night Mr. Obama claimed his party's nomination. Yet while Mr. McCain's aides have had their share of skirmishes with the press, they still enjoy a reputation for giving reporters traveling with him an unusual amount of access.
 Strategists for Mr. Obama, the country's first black nominee, have made it clear that they believe they need to take extra steps to control his image and protect against attack. But such efforts at times appear to conflict with the candidate's stated desire to be unusually transparent and open, and they have already occasionally put him at loggerheads with news organizations pushing for greater access to him now that he is the presumptive nominee.
 In spirited discussions with reporters barred from Monday's meeting with African-American civic leaders, aides said that no cameras were allowed because the participants wanted the meeting to be private, even though it was announced on the daily hotel roster of events. Later, other aides said the lighting was not properly set up for television quality.
 When Mr. Obama met with religious leaders last week, his campaign kept out photographers and reporters and refused to share a full list of participants.
 Professor Douglas W. Kmiec, a conservative constitutional scholar at Pepperdine Law School, said Mr. Obama told him and others in attendance that he was keeping the meeting private so everyone could speak without fear of public judgment. 
 ''He said, 'I want the terms and conditions of the meeting to be such that anybody feels free to ask me anything in as challenging a way as they'd wish to,' '' Mr. Kmiec said, adding that guests who wanted to avoid reporters were directed to a special exit.
 Mr. Obama's aides say his campaign has stayed true to his promise of transparency. They point to his decision to open fund-raisers to reporters, the first candidate this year to do so. But Mr. Obama is taking a more strategic approach to granting interviews. This week, he has focused on talking about the economy with reporters from The Wall Street Journal and Fortune.
 Tensions between Mr. Obama's campaign and the news media broke into full view when aides announced two weeks ago that he was flying to Chicago but then sent his plane -- and traveling press corps -- there while he stayed in Washington to meet with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 The bureau chiefs of the major television news networks and The Associated Press wrote Mr. Obama's top aides a stern letter on June 6, saying, ''There are many ways in a campaign to control your message and conduct private meetings that do not involve deceiving the press corps.'' The letter continued, ''Going forward, we know from experience that covering a presidential campaign requires that some representatives of the press corps be with, or near, the senator at all times as part of the 'security package,' just as the White House press corps is with the president.''
 Mr. Obama's campaign has not indicated that it is ready to go quite so far. 
 ''The press corps wouldn't be doing its job it if weren't demanding more access than we're willing to give,'' Ms. Dunn said. ''We wouldn't be doing our job if we didn't occasionally irritate the press.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama with former Vice President Al Gore in Detroit on Monday. The Obama campaign's recent efforts to guard his image have created some conflicts with the news media.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); RELIGION (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



493 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words

 BODY:
EXPLORATION HURDLE A global shortage of ships used for offshore drilling could hinder the search for oil. 
 President Bush called on Congress to end a longstanding federal ban on offshore drilling and open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil exploration. [A20.] 
 NO FREEBIES At a transportation conference in New York, airline executives said the tough economic environment meant nothing could be free, or cheap, for travelers anymore. Delta Air Lines also announced another round of capacity cuts within the United States. [C1.]
 VICTORY FOR BOEINGCongressional auditors urged the Air Force to reopen the bidding on a multibillion-dollar contract for refueling tankers that was awarded to Northrop Grumman. [C1.]
 BAD DAY FOR BANKS The Fifth Third Bancorp, a large regional bank, said it planned to raise $2 billion of capital and slash its dividend by 66 percent, sending financial stocks tumbling. [C1.]
 Morgan Stanley posted a 58 percent drop in its second-quarter profit, reflecting a market decline, but the results were in line with analysts' expectations. [C4.]
 DEAL LANDS IN COURT Hexion Specialty Chemicals sued to block its $10.6 billion merger with the Huntsman Corporation. [C4.]
 BACK IT UP Networked storage devices for the home can do some neat tricks, but not without a degree of difficulty. Basics. [C6.]
 DIGITAL SHOPPING LIST The iKan scanning device keeps track of what you've used in the kitchen, then helps order groceries. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 PFIZER SETTLEMENT Pfizer settled global patent disputes with a drug maker in India, staving off generic competition for its cholesterol drug Lipitor until November 2011. [C1.]
 HOLLYWOOD TALKS DreamWorks SKG is said to be in discussions with Reliance Big Entertainment of India about a cash infusion that might allow it to split from Paramount Pictures. [C2.]
 HEARST CHIEF DEPARTS The chief executive of the Hearst Corporation is leaving the publishing empire after nearly 30 years because of differences with its board of trustees. [C3.]
 DECLINING CONSUMPTION Gasoline demand may have peaked in 2007 as rising prices lead consumers to make decisions that will weaken demand in the years to come, a report says. [C3.]
 ONLINE RECORDS Doctors who use electronic health records say overwhelmingly that they have helped improve the quality of care, but many are slow to adopt the technology. [C3.]
 TRADE TALKS China and the United States agreed to increase their cooperation on energy and the environment, but two days of high-level talks ended without major breakthroughs. [C4.]
 TROUBLES FOR FEDEXHurt by soaring fuel costs, FedEx posted a fourth-quarter loss and forecast 2009 earnings well below Wall Street expectations. [C8.]
 COURTING FANS The Sony Ericsson WTA Tour is starting a $15 million global campaign to familiarize tennis fans with new stars and reacquaint them with older ones. Advertising. [C9.]
 REORGANIZATION Hoping to increase its business for corporate and consumer printing services, Hewlett-Packard said it would revamp its printing division. [C11.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); TENNIS (72%); SPORTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); MERGERS (70%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (65%); PATENTS (64%); SPORTS FANS (60%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (60%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (60%); WILDLIFE (57%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (57%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (52%); NETWORK STORAGE TECHNOLOGY (51%); CHOLESTEROL (50%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (83%); HEARST CORP (82%); MOMENTIVE SPECIALITY CHEMICALS INC (69%); HUNTSMAN CORP (68%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (66%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); PFIZER INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%)

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (83%); HUN (NYSE) (68%); DWA (NASDAQ) (66%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); NOC (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFEB (BRU) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325910 PRINTING INK MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (68%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (68%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); ARCTIC (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



494 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Begin to Show on the Region's Unemployment Rolls

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Jason Grant contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Week after week, Wall Street banks and other big employers have announced layoffs by the thousands, but month after month, the official gauges of the job market in the New York metropolitan area registered few signs of a downturn. 
 Until now.
 By several measures released this week, unemployment is on the rise in and around New York City, and the increase is beginning to worry government officials and economists.
 The most concrete count, the number of people collecting unemployment benefits, rose by more than 10 percent in May in the city and the surrounding states, up sharply from the previous months. The unemployment rates for the city, New York State and New Jersey all jumped by half a percentage point to more than 5 percent in May, after adjustments for seasonal fluctuations.
 The rate of joblessness in both the city and the state is now 5.2 percent, up from 4.7 percent in April, the State Labor Department said on Thursday. A day earlier, New Jersey officials said their state's unemployment rate had risen to 5.4 percent from 4.9 percent. The national rate rose to 5.5 percent, from 5 percent in April. 
 Analysts attributed the sudden rise to a combination of a weakening economy and the end of severance payments for people whose layoffs were announced months ago. Layoffs on Wall Street tend to have less of an immediate effect on unemployment statistics because financial companies often hand out severance that tides people over for weeks or months, delaying their need to seek unemployment benefits, analysts said.
 Marcia J. Van Wagner, the city's deputy comptroller for budget, said that although there have been layoffs on the order of 20,000 to 40,000 workers in recent months, the full impact is just now being felt. ''It's like the tsunami is still making its way across the ocean,'' she said.
 In the city, the total number of jobs is still higher than it was a year ago, fueled by growth in the transportation, education and health industries. But total employment in the city is up just 1 percent in the past year, compared with a growth rate that was nearly three times as large before the financial markets started to swoon last summer.
 James Brown, an analyst with the State Labor Department, noted that employment nationally has been falling, and therefore New York City's 1 percent growth looked relatively good. But, he added, ''It is important to realize how much the city's economy has slowed recently.'' 
 Mr. Brown said he expected the jobs picture to dim further in coming months as the city absorbed the loss of several thousand jobs at Bear Stearns, the big investment bank that collapsed in March.
 And Wall Street, the bellwether of the city's economy, is clearly shrinking. The local securities industry lost about 1,400 jobs in the last year, according to the state.
 ''What we're starting to see now is the hit to the financial sector that didn't show up as soon as construction declined nationally,'' said James Parrott, chief economist in Manhattan for the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal-leaning research group that examines tax, budget and economic public policy in New York State. ''Now the decline has spread to the broader securities industry that's centered in New York City and feeds a lot of activity in the region.''
 Many economists, including Mr. Parrott, track the actual counts of people collecting benefits because they view them as a more accurate measure of economic hardship than the unemployment rate, which is often revised later. In the last several weeks, those rolls have been growing at a fast clip.
 In New York City, the number of people receiving unemployment checks rose almost 15 percent in May, to 58,500, Mr. Brown said. In April, that number had increased just 6 percent.
 Statewide, the number of people collecting unemployment rose 13 percent in May. In New Jersey, the increase in May was more than 10 percent. In Connecticut in the last two weeks of May, the increase was 16 percent.
 Gladys Bright, who lives in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, could be joining that group soon. Ms. Bright, 50, said she was laid off in late May from her custodial job at a post office in Lower Manhattan, where she was classified as a ''casual worker'' and had been laid off from time to time.
 On Wednesday, she was still waiting to hear if she would receive unemployment benefits. The last time she collected unemployment, she received $323 a week after taxes, she said, adding that she expected to receive about the same amount this time.
 In the meantime, she said she would limit her spending and try to find a permanent job, despite the state of the economy.
 ''It's very bad because they're laying off a lot of people from different companies,'' Ms. Bright said. ''The economy is bad. Everything is on the rise, like food,'' she said, adding, ''You have to cut back on stuff.''
 Marvin Finkelstein is closer to the other end of the financial bridge between jobs. Mr. Finkelstein, 57, has been collecting unemployment for four months since he was dismissed after six years as a substitute teacher in the city's public schools.
 ''It's tough. I have a lot less than what I did,'' he said, as tears welled in his eyes. ''I cut back on luxuries. And I live on whatever savings I have.''
 Mr. Finkelstein, who was searching for a job at the Workforce1 Career Center in Brooklyn on Wednesday, said he had been receiving $278 a week in benefits, barely enough to cover the $897 monthly rent on his one-bedroom apartment in Flushing, Queens.
 He was uncertain what he would do if he did not find work before his checks ran out. The standard limit to unemployment benefits is 26 weeks, though Democrats in Congress have been pushing for a 13-week extension. 
 On Thursday, the House approved a bipartisan war-financing bill that included the 13-week extension of benefits.
 Gov. David A. Paterson of New York and Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey sent letters to Congress in April urging passage of the extension. In New Jersey, David J. Socolow, the state's commissioner of labor and work force development, said the need is becoming dire as a rapidly growing number of people exhaust their benefits. 
 In the last three months, benefits have run out for more than 45 percent of the people collecting unemployment in New Jersey, Mr. Socolow said. That is a higher rate than in any of the previous 24 months. At the same time, the average period during which people stayed on unemployment benefits has risen to more than 18.3 weeks from fewer than 18 weeks last year.
 ''People are taking longer to find a job,'' Mr. Socolow said. ''When you see that it's creeping up for a few extra weeks, that's not out of laziness on the part of the worker.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: JOBLESS CLAIMS: The number of people receiving unemployment insurance benefits in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut has increased. (Source: U.S. Department of Labor) (pg. B4)
 Graphs showing the number of people receiving unemployment insurance benefits in the tri-state area. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); STATISTICS (70%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



495 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Forces Sweep Amara As Militia Lays Down Arms

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and SUADAD SALHY; Tareq Maher contributed reporting from Baghdad, and employees of The New York Times from Diyala Province and Amara.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Despite reports of arrests and rough handling by the Iraqi security forces as they swept through the southern city of Amara on Thursday, supporters of the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr stood by their promise to lay down their weapons peacefully. 
 Iraqi troops entered Amara, near the border with Iran, as part of a campaign against militias, seeking in this case also to reclaim government buildings taken over by political parties. The sweep officially began Thursday, although the military and the police have been massing for the operation for nearly a week. 
 Mr. Sadr's restrained response seemed in sharp contrast to similar operations where he is influential, in the southern port city of Basra and in Sadr City, the Shiite enclave in Baghdad. In both those areas, a truce came only after days of fighting. 
 In Amara, Mr. Sadr seemed to have carefully changed his policy, both to preserve his followers' lives and to ensure that if anyone's behavior was rough, it would be that of the Iraqi government forces. ''We do not want to give the government and its followers the chance to assassinate Sadrists in Amara,'' said Sheik Adnan al-Selawi, a senior cleric whom Mr. Sadr sent to Amara to help organize the Sadr followers to ensure that they responded peacefully. 
 There were reports of rough treatment and especially of arrests of eminent followers of Mr. Sadr. It was unclear whether the units making the arrests had warrants, as required under Iraqi law. If so, Mr. Sadr's followers said they would not protest the detentions. 
 However, Mr. Sadr's supporters protested at least two cases in which Iraqi troops seized family members of wanted figures when they could not find the person they were seeking. Iraqi military leaders responded that they had arrested only one relative of a wanted man. The American military has used similar tactics, drawing criticism from Iraqis in and out of the government. 
 ''We detained 17 wanted men, and in the case of one of these men, he is a leader of the Al Mahdi Army and the head of the economic committee in the Sadr office and he is very dangerous,'' said Brig. Jaber al-Mohammedawi, an assistant of Maj. Gen. Tareq al-Azzawi, who leads the Iraqi Army's operation room in Amara. ''So we detained his father instead of him.'' 
 Brigadier Mohammedawi said that the army had found many caches of weapons and ammunition, including ones that contained improvised explosive devices made in Iran. 
 The overarching worry of Mr. Sadr's supporters is that the government is using this operation to reduce the number of influential figures in the movement, thereby reducing its ability to compete in local elections scheduled for the fall.
 ''The Sadrist movement is a victim of the political conflicts in the Parliament and the government,'' said Abdul Latif Jawad, a member of the Amara provincial council. ''They think the Sadr movement stands in the way of their ambitions. The aim of this operation is to terminate the Sadr movement and to prevent its members from participation in the next election.''
 There was scattered violence elsewhere in Iraq. In Diyala Province, north of Baghdad, sectarian tensions appeared on the rise in some areas. In one district, Sunni extremists distributed leaflets warning Shiite families not to return to houses they had abandoned during sectarian fighting in the last few years. But in other parts of the province, villagers were managing to return to their homes. 
 Near Buhruz, in southern Diyala, there are now daily attacks against groups who are confronting extremists and are paid by the American military, several local sheiks said. 
 ''We ask the government for a real security plan because our village is besieged from every side,'' said Sheik Alwan Jameel Khader in a village a few miles south of Buhruz. ''The situation here is catastrophic. There is a severe shortage of food and drinking water, we lost everything and Al Qaeda is creeping toward us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraqi security forces searched a home for weapons on Thursday in the southern city of Amara, which is near the Iranian border.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ESSAM AL-SUDANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



496 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2557 words

HEADLINE: China Presses Injured Athletes In Quest for Gold and Glory

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH; Li Zhen, Fan Wenxin and Shi Jing contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
When China's champion 10-meter platform diver suffered a detached retina while training, a year after winning a gold medal in the 2004 Athens Olympics, family members and fans speculated about the imminent end of a great career. 
 The parents of the diver, Hu Jia, had surrendered him to trainers from the Chinese sports establishment at the age of 10, and had seen little of him since then. In an interview with a Chinese newspaper after the diver's injury, his father suggested that this was sacrifice enough. Had he known his son risked blindness, the father said, ''I would never have sent him off to dive.''
 But less than two months before China hosts the Olympics for the first time, Mr. Hu is training and competing fiercely again, aiming to bolster a national diving squad that China hopes will dominate the sport this summer. 
 ''The Beijing Olympics is an enormous glory to our generation,'' Mr. Hu, whose other retina was also injured, was quoted in the Chinese media as saying last year. Speaking of another gold medal, he added, ''I will do my utmost to grab one, unless my eyes are really blind.'' 
 Pressured by the national athletic system and tempted by the commercial riches awaiting star performers in the 2008 Games, China's athletes are pushing themselves to their limits and beyond, causing some to risk their health in pursuit of nationalist glory. 
 ''An astonishing amount of manpower, money and goods have been poured in, so much so that it's inappropriate to be revealed publicly,'' said Lu Yuanzhen, a professor of sports sociology at the Academy of Sports Sciences at South China Normal University. If the country's athletes do not perform up to expectations, he added, ''the entire nation and its people will lose face.''
 Since surpassing Russia to win the second most gold medals in the 2004 Olympics, its highest ranking ever, China has held an unofficial but undeniable ambition to cap the hosting of the Games by surpassing the United States and finishing atop the medal board.
 The resulting pressure is felt by nearly all of China's Olympic aspirants, from still largely unheralded performers in relatively unglamorous sports to the country's brightest marquee names, like Yao Ming, the Houston Rockets center who sat out the final two months of the N.B.A. season with a stress fracture in his left foot but is still expected to play for China's national team.
 Athletes regarded as potential gold medalists have been urged out of retirement, and some female stars have been urged to resume training and competing soon after giving birth. Previous gold medal winners, meanwhile, have heard for four years that failure to pull off a repeat victory will let the whole nation down. Many have trained for the Games despite serious injuries. A female weight lifter, Tang Gonghong, persevered until early this year despite having such high blood pressure that her chief coach said it ''threatens her life at any moment.''
 'Don't Retreat'
 These pressures can perhaps be seen most clearly in the recent experience of Liu Xiang, a Chinese track athlete who became a national hero and the country's most popular sports star in Athens when he won the 110-meter men's hurdles, a sport in which China had never excelled. Mr. Liu's coach was recently quoted in China Daily, the official English-language newspaper, as saying, ''Officials from the State General Administration of Sport once told us that if Liu cannot win another gold medal in Beijing, all of his previous achievements will become meaningless.''
 So far, Mr. Liu has not had to contend with a serious injury. But last August, after winning the track world championships in Japan, he spoke of the agony of high expectations. ''I've been tortured these days,'' Mr. Liu said. ''I was afraid of speaking too much. I've never been so nervous; more nervous than in the Olympics, because there's too much attention on me.''
 For many athletes, playing through injuries is standard practice. Most of China's Olympic-caliber competitors are tightly controlled by a system that manages almost every aspect of their lives, often from early childhood. This includes housing, education, medical care and interactions with the public and the news media. In this system, decisions about training regimens and the risks of injuries do not get much of a public airing. The case of Zheng Jie, a top female doubles tennis player, however, provides a glimpse of how the obligation to perform often operates.
 Despite a painful ankle injury, Ms. Zheng played a punishing schedule last year to gain tour points required to compete in the Olympics. In a news conference after she lost in the first round of the French Open, she broke down in tears. ''The pain in my foot was so strong I could hardly concentrate,'' she said.
 Ms. Zheng said her doctor had told her that she risked permanent injury if she kept playing without treatment and rest. But in an interview, she said her coach denied her request to concede the French Open match. In a television interview after her defeat, the coach, Jiang Hongwei, said Ms. Zheng and her teammate, Yan Zi, ''had too much concern for their injuries, which was an important factor in their performance.'' 
 ''The philosophy of our sports system has several bad points,'' said Chen Peide, former director of the Zhejiang Province Sports Bureau. ''Urging people to tenaciously strive to succeed, to be faster, to jump higher, to be stronger and to win more gold medals usually comes at the expense of athletes' health.
 ''When they're having a 100- or 102-degree fever, we tell them not to give up so easily,'' he said.
 Mr. Chen said that a Communist war slogan, ''Don't retreat from the front lines with light injuries,'' was a pet phrase of Chinese athletes and coaches.
 While Ms. Zheng invoked her doctor's advice in appealing to her coach, for many other Olympics hopefuls, medical decisions are made without consulting medical professionals. 
 ''The athletes themselves basically have no idea of their injuries and they usually don't have a say'' in how they are treated, said Dr. Wang Yubin, the medical director for the sports injury department at Shanghai East International Medical Center. Decisions about how to handle injuries of important athletes, he said, are made by officials of the sporting establishment.
 Sacrificing for a Payoff
 If it is true that the system pushes athletes hard, many athletes are just as demanding of themselves. Since the 1980s, when the commercialization of sports began in China, money has become a powerful incentive alongside the drive for glory. ''I once treated a national weight-lifting champion and warned him not to carry on in the sport anymore,'' Dr. Wang said. ''I told both him and his parents that in the worst case, he could be paralyzed for life. The parents replied that there was nothing for their child to do but persevere. 
 ''They said, 'What else can he do if he doesn't lift weights?' ''
 Li Zhuo, a retired silver medalist in the women's weight-lifting 48-kilogram category in 2004, put it another way. ''Once you win gold, your status is changed and you become another person,'' she said, referring to the monetary awards and business opportunities showered on victors. ''One Olympics can change an athlete's life, and that's pressure.''
 Hu Jia, the gold medal diver, for example, was born to laid-off workers in Hubei Province in central China. When he was 6 years old, his parents piled quilts on the ground, then let him jump from a bed to practice diving. Three years later, he was spotted by a former diver and sent to train with a coach in Guangdong, where he made the provincial team. He was considered relatively untalented by coaches and mocked by the public as a perpetual also-ran before the 2004 Games. But he distinguished himself through unrelenting hard work, eventually beating out the favorite, Tian Liang, for a gold.
 Although a spot on this year's squad is no sure thing, he has shown the same determination in working his way back from injury, forgoing anesthesia during eye surgery because he hoped it would speed recovery. ''There are so many difficulties, surgery and injuries on the road, but I have to keep up to the last,'' he told a newspaper in Wuhan.
 According to a study published in 2000, 24 percent of Chinese divers have had retina injuries. Yu Fen, a former national coach, said the high rate was because of poor screening of young athletes for congenital eye problems and antiquated, high-intensity training methods. Divers wear no goggles, and repeated impact with the water can damage eyes, Chinese medical experts say, especially if divers fail to close their eyes just before hitting the water.
 Dr. Wang Yongli, a sports medicine expert at Beijing Sports Hospital who discovered a high incidence of retina damage when he conducted a survey at the end of 1990s, said there had been minor changes in training techniques since then. But he said he did not expect them to have much effect on the rate of injury.
 ''I don't have any solid numbers to show what it's like in other countries, but the rate should be lower compared to what I've found in the Chinese team,'' Dr. Wang said. 
 ''The training regimen of foreign athletes by no means compares to ours, meaning the hours devoted to training, and the number of dives into the water. Chinese divers are professionals, which means they practice all day long, while Australians and Canadians might be a bank clerk or a dentist, who only spend two hours practicing after work.''
 As suggested by the injunction to athletes against retreating from the front lines, China's national sports system does indeed borrow heavily from wartime, albeit largely from the cold war. Within five years of taking power in 1949, Mao Zedong adopted many of the features of the heavily centralized sports system of China's then-Communist ally, the Soviet Union. 
 As in the Soviet Union, China's new sports establishment was deliberately conceived as an instrument of nation-building, a tool of mass mobilization and even of foreign policy, aimed both at increasing the country's prestige and promoting feelings of integration among the people.
 Experts say, however, that the two systems quickly diverged as ties between Moscow and Beijing soured. 
 ''The Soviet system was centered on industry, with factory sponsors for each team, while the Chinese system was centered on government and military units,'' said Susan Brownell, professor of anthropology at the University of Missouri-St. Louis and author of ''Beijing's Games: What the Olympics Mean to China.'' ''This created an aspect in the Chinese system of intense rivalries between the provinces, as well as between provinces and the central government.''
 Selection of athletes at the provincial level may begin when they are as young as 6, experts say, with as many as 2 percent of grade school students flagged as promising. These children are placed in all-expenses-paid sports schools and ''filtered'' through increasingly intensive competitions that weed out all but an elite 80,000 who find homes on provincial teams. Of those, only a tiny fraction will make the next big step, earning a place on China's national team.
 The Strategy of Success
 ''Pressure doesn't just come from the central government, but from each province, and even from the cities the athletes come from,'' said Mr. Chen, the former Zhejiang Province Sports Bureau director. ''Quotas are assigned to each province, and if a province won several gold medals last time, it should perform at least as well this time. The promotion of sports officials in each province depends on how many medals their province has won.''
 In many sports, parents can go years without seeing their children, and may speak to them only once or twice a year. But local and provincial officials are unstintingly attentive, showering gifts on the families during Spring Festival, China's most important holiday, to make up for the children's absence. 
 Major changes to China's sports policy were instituted at the start of the era of economic reform in the early 1980s. Deng Xiaoping, then China's top leader, announced the ''Ten Year Sports Guidelines'' and China returned to Olympic competition after a 32-year absence.
 This led to greatly increased spending on sports and new training methods, pioneered in the 1980s by Ma Junren, a legendary coach from Liaoning Province who insisted on multiple, grueling training sessions per day for track athletes rather than the two sessions that were customary in the West. Mr. Ma and many of his runners, known as ''Ma's army,'' fell into disrepute and were withdrawn from Olympics competition in the late 1990s when many tested positive for steroids. 
 A pillar of China's recent strong rise in the Olympics-medal tallies has been the astute targeting of sports where medal opportunities seem greatest. In some categories, competition is relatively thin. 
 ''The Chinese have been very strategic in where they have put their energies,'' said Ms. Brownell, a visiting professor at Beijing Sport University. ''They have put major efforts into training for new events, so that they can set records as soon as the events come into effect. This has been the case with the triple jump, the pole vault and with women's weight lifting.''
 Speaking of women's weight lifting, Dai Guangyu, former vice chairman of the China Weight Lifting Association, said China's national system had allowed it to invest in developing female weight lifters beginning in the 1980s. ''Other countries didn't have that many people involved,'' Mr. Dai said. 
 Since the 2000 Olympics, when women's weight lifting was introduced, China has won half of the 14 gold medals awarded, and on the eve of the Beijing Games, pressure is as high in this sport as in any to at least hold the line on gold medals. Mr. Dai acknowledged that a successful push in this sport -- widely seen as dangerous and unglamorous, making it hard for muscle-bound women to find work or spouses when their careers end -- depends on recruiting among the rural poor. With its heavy training, it also depends on being able to closely control an athlete's life.
 Wang Mingjuan, one of three aspirants to represent China in the 48-kilogram category, was asked to try out recently in a higher weight category to give China an even better shot at winning medals. But she injured her lower back and has returned to her normal weight class. Her parents, who say they see her once every three or four years, said she had told them in their last phone call not to worry.
 ''We don't have much money, and the life was hard,'' her mother, Wang Meiyu, said, explaining the decision to send her to a sports school at the age of 9. ''She was so little and we couldn't see her often, but when we visited, my heart felt bitter and sour. It was so tough.''
 Unless Ms. Wang and her teammates win gold, Chen Xiaomin, a women's weight-lifting champion in the 2000 Olympics, said the bitterness was likely to continue. ''It takes at least 10 years' practice before you can become a world champion,'' Ms. Chen said. ''Once you win a world championship, you can go to college for free, or work, or become an official. If you don't, you get nothing but injuries all over your body. No diploma, no job, no skill.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 20 about the pressures on Chinese athletes to win Olympics medals misstated the scope and date of a doping scandal involving athletes who had trained under Ma Junren, a legendary Chinese coach. Six were withdrawn from Olympics competition in 2000 -- not ''many'' in the late 1990s. The article also overstated what is known about their suspected substance abuse. While China never officially confirmed why they were withdrawn, the six were found to have unacceptably high blood levels of recombinant human erythropoietin, or EPO, a banned drug that enhances the performance of endurance athletes by accelerating production of oxygen-carrying red blood cells. They did not test positive for steroids.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hu Jia, left, and Yang Linguang competing in May in Florida.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JON WAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
RISKING EVERYTHING: Hu Jia hopes to capture a second gold medal in diving despite injuries to his retinas that could endanger his sight.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PRESSURE TO PERSEVERE: From left: Zheng Jie, left, and Yan Zi in Rome last month
Wang Mingjuan in a first-place finish in Beijing in January
and Liu Xiang, right, a national hero, in Beijing last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRA TARANTINO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FENG LI/GETTY IMAGES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG BAKER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS INJURIES (90%); WATER SPORTS (90%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); DIVING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); BLINDNESS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); SOCIOLOGY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (72%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



497 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: 3 Ex-Nortel Executives Are Accused Of Fraud

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police brought criminal charges on Thursday against three former executives of Nortel Networks, the telecommunications company, more than four years after accounting irregularities were discovered at the firm. 
 Charged were Frank A. Dunn, the former chief executive; Douglas C. Beatty, the former chief financial officer; and Michael J. Gollogly, the former controller.
 The charges stem from an accounting scandal that caused Nortel to fire or suspend the three men in April 2004. It set off a series of accounting restatements that undermined confidence in the company and angered many investors, particularly in its home country, where Nortel was widely held by small shareholders.
 Nortel has cooperated with police and securities investigators in both Canada and the United States and was not charged on Thursday. Last year Nortel paid $35 million to settle securities charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States.
 Mr. Dunn was fired immediately when the accounting irregularities were discovered by Nortel's board. The other two men were initially suspended and ultimately were dismissed by Nortel, which is now based in Toronto. Each of the three faces a total of seven fraud-related charges including falsifying books, company documents and financial prospectuses. 
 The police said in a statement that the charges all relate to activities in 2002 and 2003. During the technology bubble, Nortel's share price rose so high that it distorted stock indexes in Canada. 
 But the company has never fully recovered from the severe erosion in its share value that began in 2002 and accelerated after the disclosure of the accounting problems.
 Nortel, in a separate statement, said that it had fully cooperated with the police and severed all ties to the three accused men. ''Nortel and its employees are highly determined to compete and win in the marketplace, and today's announcement by the R.C.M.P. does not distract the company from the work ahead,'' it said.
 While Nortel continues to lose money, some equity and debt analysts have recently become less negative about the company's prospects. Nortel has considerably reduced staff and eliminated product lines in recent years.
 In a statement, the Toronto law firm representing Mr. Dunn said: ''We are confident that the evidence will demonstrate that Mr. Dunn acted honestly and diligently in the interests of Nortel's shareholders and employees at all times, and that he will be acquitted of these charges.''
 The three men appeared in a suburban Toronto court and were released on bail. They will return to court again in August.
 statementstatement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); BAIL (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); ACQUITTAL (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



498 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: The Smaller the Better, Automakers Are Finding

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The demand for fuel-efficient small cars and hybrids is so fierce that automakers cannot produce them fast enough.
 Limited supply of some of the hottest models is taking its toll on an industry that has already suffered a 14 percent drop in unit sales in the United States this year.
 Analysts say that June sales are coming in at the lowest monthly rate in at least 15 years, partly because manufacturers have been unable to satisfy the surging demand for compact cars and hybrid models. 
 Sales for the month so far are equal to an annualized selling rate of 12.5 million vehicles, according to the market research firm J. D. Power & Associates.
 ''It's abysmally low, the lowest we have seen in a long time,'' said Tom Libby, J. D. Power's chief industry analyst. ''And the inventories of small cars are hurting sales, no doubt about it.''
 With gasoline prices topping $4 a gallon, consumers are overwhelming dealerships with demand for the littlest vehicles in the showroom.
 Mr. Libby said that the tiny Honda Fit is on a dealer's lot an average of 11 days before it is sold, half the time of traditional quick sellers like the Cadillac CTS and Mercedes-Benz C300 luxury sedans.
 ''These are amazingly low numbers for a car of this type,'' he said. ''If gas prices stay where they are, I think we'll see this for quite a while.''
 Hybrids are even more difficult to buy. Four of the 10 fastest-selling vehicles are hybrids, led by the Toyota Prius, which sells within four days of arriving at the dealer, according to J. D. Power. The average time to sale for the industry in June, by comparison, is 57 days. 
 But while inventories are low, manufacturers cannot move quickly enough to increase production of popular small cars like the Toyota Corolla, Honda Civic and Ford Focus.
 Ford Motor Company, for example is running its Wayne, Mich., assembly plant on overtime and Saturdays in an effort to meet demand for the Focus.
 General Motors had planned to add a third shift in September to its small-car plant in Ohio, but recently moved the start date up to August.
 A Toyota spokesman said the Japanese automaker was limited by production to selling 175,000 Priuses in the United States this year, no matter how hot the demand.
 Honda Motor will open a new plant in Indiana late this year that will increase its output of Civics by 200,000 a year. The automaker has already increased production of the car at factories in Ohio and Canada.
 ''Even though we've got more vehicles in the pipeline than ever before, we didn't expect to sell 53,000 Civics in May,'' said a Honda spokesman, Edward K. Miller.
 Dealers say that sales have been constrained based on availability. ''Most of the Civics and hybrids are coming in already sold,'' said John Rooney, the new-car sales manager at Pearson Honda in Richmond, Va. ''Generally, right now people are waiting a couple of weeks or a couple of months for these vehicles.''
 Honda has doubled its allocation of Fit subcompacts for the American market to about 80,000 vehicles a year, Mr. Miller said.
 Still, consumers are finding the supply tight. Bob DiGiacomo, a schoolteacher in Fogelsville, Pa., put down a deposit on a Fit four weeks before the model he wanted became available. To get it, he drove 90 minutes to a dealership in Philadelphia.
 ''Gas mileage was a big factor for us buying the Fit,'' he said. ''The money I'll save on gas in a year will pay for insurance on the car.''
 Auto executives have been startled by the rapid shift this year by consumers from bigger vehicles like pickups and S.U.V.'s into small cars and lightweight crossovers.
 Small cars now account for more one in five vehicles sold, and the numbers are rising. Less than a decade ago, the percentage was one in eight.
 While some automakers -- Honda, for example -- have flexible plants that can shift productions from minivans or crossovers to cars, the factories of Detroit automakers are limited to specific models.
 So while Ford has shut down its big S.U.V. plant in Wayne, Mich., for nine weeks because those vehicles are not selling, its nearby Focus plant is running extra hours. 
 ''This seismic shift in the marketplace has definitely taken us and everybody else by surprise,'' said George Pipas, Ford's market analyst.
 Mr. Pipas said that Ford currently has a 20-day supply of Focuses nationwide, well below the 60-day supply that is considered the industry norm.
 The automaker, based in Dearborn, Mich., is drafting a major overhaul of its manufacturing plans in North America to address the shift to smaller cars.
 But for now, it has a red-hot product in the Focus, and not enough production to meet demand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Used Toyota Priuses, shown at a dealership in Peekskill, N.Y., last week, were resold within hours. New Priuses generally sell within four days of arrival at a showroom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Ford is bringing in workers on overtime to build the popular Focus at its assembly plant in Wayne, Mich. Meanwhile, Ford has shut its nearby S.U.V. assembly plant for nine weeks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); SEDANS (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); HNDA (LSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



499 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 20, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ISRAEL AND HAMAS CALL A TRUCE,
 But Some Ask if It Can Last
 The cease-fire between Israel and Hamas, the Islamic group that controls Gaza, went into effect just as the sun was rising over Sderot, an Israeli border town plagued by rocket fire from Gaza for the past seven years. The truce holds, in theory, the possibility of a new era in Israel's relations with Gaza and Hamas. But few Israelis envision that. ''It's an illusion,'' said a factory worker. ''Calm for how long?'' PAGE A6 
 TALIBAN REMOVED FROM VILLAGES
 Afghan and NATO forces cleared Taliban guerrillas from a cluster of villages outside Kandahar, removing for the moment any threat that they might try to move into their former stronghold in the southern part of the country. NATO urged the roughly 4,000 Afghans who had fled their homes to return. PAGE A8 
 DIVISION AMONG ANGLICAN BISHOPS
 Once a decade, hundreds of bishops of the international Anglican Communion meet in Canterbury, England, for the Lambeth Conference. But this summer, more than a quarter of the invited bishops are expected to boycott it and attend a rival meeting in Jerusalem, declaring that they see no possibility for reconciliation with the Episcopal Church in the United States and the Anglican Church of Canada, which have accepted a gay bishop and same-sex unions. PAGE A6 
 EGYPTIANS LEAVE IT TO FATE
 Any guidebook to Egypt alerts tourists to Egyptians' frequent use of ''inshallah,'' or ''God willing,'' in discussing future events, a signal of their deep faith and belief that all events occur, or don't occur, at God's will. But there has been inshallah creep, to the extreme. It is now attached to the answer for any question, past, present and future. PAGE A9
 EUROPEAN LEADERS PRESS IRELAND
 European leaders have given the Irish government four months to try to find a way out of the crisis precipitated by Ireland's rejection of the Lisbon Treaty, which aims to create a full-time president of the European Union and a more powerful foreign policy chief. At a meeting in Brussels, leaders of the European Union were expected to postpone substantial discussions on the vote in Ireland until October, though it was unclear whether Dublin would be expected to produce a plan to salvage the treaty. PAGE A13
 IRAQI REBELS KEEP THEIR WORD
 Despite reports of arrests and rough handling by the Iraqi forces as they swept Amara, near the Iranian border, supporters of the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr stood by their promise to lay down their weapons. Iraqi troops entered Amara as part of a campaign against militias. PAGE A8 
 Nigerian Rebels Strike Offshore Rig A10 
 NATIONAL
 AN EXHIBIT RECALLS WHEN
 Images Galvanized the Nation
 The High Museum of Art is playing host to a popular exhibit spotlighting images from the civil rights movement, which, somewhat surprisingly, is a first for a major museum. Even as the show pulls together so many photographs of landmark events, it highlights how much history has come close to being lost, such as one series of photographs that had been kept for decades in the files of a law firm as potential evidence. PAGE A14
 FLOODING CONTINUES IN MIDWEST
 As levees put in place to hold off the surging Mississippi River burst, residents in the cities and towns north of St. Louis began to ask whether the flooding might soon be over. The federal government suggested that this could become more routine, as it released a climate report predicting that more frequent and intense heavy rains were unavoidable in North America in a world warmed by increasing greenhouse-gas concentrations. PAGE A17
 FLOOD RESPONSE EVOKES HURRICANE
 President Bush toured flood-stricken areas in Iowa, with the haunting memory of Hurricane Katrina in tow. R. David Paulison, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, boasts about the short response time for callers looking to reach his agency, and made a point to stress its preparedness. But Mr. Bush can only do so much. ''That was the biggest event of his presidency outside 9/11, and he can no more escape Katrina than he can escape 9/11,'' a Republican strategist said. PAGE A17
 GIRLS PLEDGE TO BECOME PREGNANT
 Time magazine reported that a group of teenage girls at the public high school in Gloucester, Mass., made a pact to become pregnant and raise their children together. And while officials would not confirm the details of the report, they acknowledged that many of the 17 pregnant girls at the 1,200-student school had intentionally become pregnant. ''This is a city in transition going through a hard economic time,'' the city's mayor said. ''We really let these kids down.'' PAGE A15
 COURT RULES FOR OLDER WORKERS
 In a closely watched age discrimination case, the Supreme Court ruled 7 to 1 in favor of older workers, placing on employers the burden of proving that a layoff or other action that hurts older workers more than others was based not on age but on some other ''reasonable factor.'' The decision overturned a ruling by the federal appeals court in New York, which said employees had the burden of disproving an employer's defense of reasonableness. PAGE A15
 METRO
 A BELOVED BROOKLYN TREE
 Escapes the Chain Saw
 A beloved, gargantuan mulberry tree whose branches have formed a canopy over a stretch of Kane Street in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, won a stay of execution from a city chain saw. The mammoth tree is a point of pride in the neighborhood, and started out as a twig planted into the ground back when real estate agents would say Cobble Hill was ''in transition'' and before it became the leafy, expensive enclave it is today. PAGE A20
 CITY SEEKS CONVENTION TAPES
 A documentary group called I-Witness Video helped defendants in trials stemming from arrests during protests that accompanied the 2004 Republican National Convention, refuting police testimony with videotapes that chronicled the protests. But lawyers for the city have issued two subpoenas directing the group, which collected hundreds of hours of tapes, to defend the city against claims that demonstrators were unfairly arrested. PAGE A20
 BUSINESS
 CARMAKERS TRY TO KEEP PACE
 With Demand for Efficient Cars
 Car sales are down, and a big reason is that the automakers cannot seem to make enough of the newly popular smaller, fuel-efficient cars and hybrids to keep up with the demand. Take the Toyota Prius, the most popular hybrid on the market. J. D. Power says it sits on a showroom floor only an average of four days before it is sold. ''If gas prices stay where they are, I think we'll see this for quite a while,'' an industry analyst said. PAGE C3
 AN AD PUSH, MINUS A DETAIL
 Most Americans do not know that the Lenovo Group is a Chinese company. And while the company is not trying to hide that fact -- it is the only Chinese company that has a worldwide sponsorship for the 2008 Beijing Olympics -- Lenovo will not exactly be highlighting it in the many advertisements the company is running during the Games, either. ''The typical American still associates Chinese products with cheap -- precisely what Lenovo doesn't want,'' a public relations executive said. PAGE C4
 PERSIAN GULF HEARS LONDON CALLING
 The cranes rising over London's financial district are part of a push by sovereign wealth funds from the oil-rich Persian Gulf that are pouring money into the London skyline. The city is especially eager for their investments now, as the credit crisis threatens to stall several development projects. All in all, Middle Eastern investors were responsible for about 15 percent of the funds invested in central London offices in the first quarter of this year -- up from just 4 percent in all of 2007. PAGE C6
 WEEKEND ARTS
 BUY A TICKET AND EXPERIENCE
 The End of Laughter
 How unfunny is ''The Love Guru,'' the new ostensible comedy starring Mike Myers? A. O. Scott says that a new vocabulary for the film's dearth of mirth may be required: antifunny. ''What is the opposite of a belly laugh?'' he asks. ''To say this movie is not funny is to affirm the obvious,'' he notes, calling the movie ''an experience that makes you wonder if you will ever laugh again.'' PAGE E10
 ALICIA KEYS AT THE GARDEN
 Jon Caramanica attended Alicia Keys's recent performance at Madison Square Garden, which showed off the singer's meticulous vocal stylings. But he writes that the fussiness made her look ill at ease, and helped the show fall flat. Both she and Ne-Yo, the R&B singer-songwriter who opened the show, at times seemed to be singing to empty rooms, Mr. Caramanica writes, but ''Ne-Yo appears comfortable with his discomfort.'' PAGE E13
 WHEN SHE'S HAD ENOUGH
 Nazneen, the main character in the film ''Brick Lane,'' is a Bangladeshi woman who came to England as part of an arranged marriage. She never complains and tries to draw little attention to herself, until one day she discovers the limits of her endurance. A. O. Scott says that despite how heart-rending the film can be, it ends up feeling familiar rather than revelatory. PAGE E8
 A SENATOR FALLS
 Ethan Canin's latest venture into long-form fiction is the novel ''America, America,'' which focuses on the relationship between a young man from a working-class family and the moneyed clan who become his benefactors. Their aristocratic paternalism is a recurring theme in the book, which plays out amid a charismatic senator's presidential campaign in the 1970s that threatens to be derailed after an unforeseen accident (hint: Chappaquiddick). PAGE E25
 Charles Isherwood:
 'A Perfect Couple' E3
 OBITUARIES
 TASHA TUDOR, 92
 A children's illustrator whose work appeared in more than 100 books and inspired a cottage industry, she vigorously pursued a life -- including weaving, spinning, gathering eggs and milking goats -- that seemed straight out of the 1800s. That was consistent with Ms. Tudor's frequent assertion that she was the reincarnation of a sea captain's wife who lived from 1800 to 1840 or 1842, and that it was this earlier life she was replicating. PAGE B7

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); HAMAS (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); ARMED FORCES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (78%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (67%) ISRAEL (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRELAND (94%); EGYPT (93%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGIUM (79%); ENGLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



500 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ANTIQUES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 914 words

BYLINE: By WENDY MOONAN

 BODY:
PALLADIO'S BIRTHDAY
 This year is the 500th anniversary of the birth of the architect Andrea Palladio (1508-1580), which has prompted the Institute of Classical Architecture to organize a series of lectures to be held at the New York School of Interior Design, 170 East 70th Street, Manhattan, at 6 p.m. on Wednesday and on July 9 and July 16. 
 ''What's interesting is why we are still talking about him,'' said Richard Sammons, a New York architect on the program for Wednesday. ''We think of Palladio mostly in association with his villas, which we see as simple, pure, abstract and unornamented expressions of perfect proportion and chaste economy. Palladio considered his churches and civic work his most important achievements and would employ ornament and mural decoration lavishly if decorum and budget allowed. His palaces are hardly chaste.'' 
 The institute has assembled ''Italian Dressing: Palladio and American Classicism,'' a traveling exhibition of contemporary sketches, drawings and watercolors showing Palladian influences, which opens on Thursday at the Virginia Center for Architecture in Richmond.
 Yale University Press has just published ''Palladio's Rome,'' edited and translated by Vaughan Hart and Peter Hicks. This illustrated pocket-size book is as useful today as when it was first published in 1554. It offers pilgrimage routes from one church to another and serves as a guide to both ancient and medieval wonders. 
 AUCTION RESULTS
 At June's design auctions in New York, many lots didn't sell. 
 ''The auction houses are promising estimates that are unrealistic,'' said Bob Aibel, the owner of Moderne Gallery in Philadelphia. 
 At Phillips de Pury, only 58 percent of the lots sold on June 12, for a sale total of $5.6 million, including the buyers' premiums. (The low estimate was $6.4 million.) The contemporary designers Marc Newson, Ron Arad, Jeroen Verhoeven and Zaha Hadid were responsible for 6 of the top 10 lots, each of which sold for more than $200,000.
 ''The exuberance of the contemporary-art market has fueled the contemporary-furniture world,'' said Lee Mindel, a New York architect who collects mid-20th-century design. ''If you look at the two categories, they are moving closer together, but there is still a great disparity between them.''
 A closer look at the hammer prices -- that is, prices before the buyer's premium is added on -- illustrates the strength of the market at the top. A Pierre Jeanneret teak library table made for Punjab University, in Chandigarh, India, in the 1960s sold for $250,000 (estimate: $150,000 to $180,000), setting a new auction record for Jeanneret. A rare George Nakashima bed sold for $205,000 (estimate: $80,000 to $120,000). On behalf of a client, Mr. Mindel bought for $120,000 a two-piece conference table Nakashima made for Mount Mercy College in Pittsburgh.
 ''It is a little unusual for Nakashima,'' Mr. Mindel said. ''It has such discipline and extraordinary restraint.''
 Mr. Mindel also purchased a 1930s Lucy Rie ''Vienna period'' vase for $35,000 for a client. Collectors prize Ms. Rie's early ceramics.
 At Christie's design sale last Friday, 64 percent of the lots sold, for a total of nearly $5 million, including premium. Three of the top four lots were pieces Jean-Michel Frank designed in the 1920s in Paris.
 A Frank patinated wrought-iron desk sold for $420,000 (estimate: $60,000 to $80,000), and two identical leather and wrought-iron chairs fetched $160,000 and $140,000. (Each was estimated at $150,000 to $200,000.)
 A collection of 1960s artist-designed jewelry made by GEM Montebello in Milan was sold for $287,400.
 At Sotheby's design sale on June 14, almost 63 percent of the lots sold, for a total, with premium, of $7.4 million. Tiffany lamps accounted for 4 of the top 10 lots, including a rare ''Apple Blossom'' table lamp that sold for $775,000, setting a world-record price for that model (against an estimate of $250,000 to $350,000). 
 A prismatic prototype table Isamu Noguchi designed for the Alcoa aluminum company in 1957, estimated at $100,000 to $150,000, sold for $240,500. The very best things continue to sell well. 
 LAVERNE PeRE AND FILS 
 Dealers continue to mine 1950s work for undiscovered talent. 
 Cristina Grajales, a private dealer in Manhattan who specializes in 20th-century design, has organized her first public exhibition in her SoHo space (10 Greene Street, near Canal Street, through July 3). It is a retrospective of the work of Philip and Kelvin LaVerne, a father-and-son team who created sculptural bronze furniture and works of art in New York from the 1950s to the 1980s. (Philip died in 1987; Kelvin is retired.)
 Both men were interested in nature and archaeology and devised novel techniques to acid-etch, enamel and incorporate pewter into bronze to create an antique patina. Among the 25 pieces are some with Greek, Etruscan or chinoiserie motifs. 
 ''I have been collecting for five years and am shocked how diverse their styles were,'' Ms. Grajales said. ''They merged the worlds of art and design. They treated surfaces almost like canvases.''
 One coffee table, ''Excursion,'' resembles an enormous hunk of petrified wood; another, ''Metamorphosis,'' looks like an amoeba with a hole in the middle.
 Not everything is for sale; Kelvin LaVerne has lent some of his own works that are not on the market. The others range in price from $6,000 to $120,000. Most are single commissions; a few are from editions of five.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ''Metamorphosis'' coffee table in etched bronze from 1956, by the father-and-son team of Philip and Kelvin LaVerne, one of several LaVerne works at Cristina Grajales's gallery in SoHo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF CRISTINA GRAJALES INC.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CLASSICS (77%); RELIGION (74%); BUDGETS (74%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (72%)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CHANDIGARH, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



501 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Congress Is Considering A National Authority

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Members of a Congressional subcommittee scolded the horse racing industry Thursday for endangering thoroughbreds with lax drug policies and faulty breeding, and said the sport emphasized greed over transparency. The panel is considering endorsing a central governing body for the sport and warned that it could reopen the Interstate Horse Racing Act of 1978 to make that happen.
 ''Unlike every other professional and amateur sport, horse racing lacks any national regulatory authority that can promulgate uniform rules and regulations,'' said Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois. She led the hearing, which was entitled ''Breeding, Drugs, and Breakdowns: The State of Thoroughbred Horseracing and the Welfare of the Thoroughbred Racehorse.'' 
 ''One of the central questions the subcommittee wants to explore is, does horse racing need a central governing authority? Is the racing industry truly capable of making reforms on its own within the current regulatory framework?''
 Arthur Hancock, whose Stone Farm produced three Kentucky Derby winners, testified that the industry was too fractured and perhaps too dysfunctional to organize itself and needed federal oversight to rid the sport of drugs and stop fatalities. In 1960, he noted, horses made 11.3 starts a year and in 2007 they made 6.31.
 ''This is a dramatic drop of 44 percent and is a startling statistic, which shows that the breed is becoming softer and weaker,'' he told the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection.
 ''It is a vicious cycle,'' he said. ''Chemical horses produce chemical babies. Performance-enhancing drugs must be banned if we are going to survive as an industry and if thoroughbreds are going to survive as a robust breed.''
 Jess Jackson, who owns the reigning Horse of the Year, Curlin, asked that the industry be allowed to try to organize itself first, but said that federal interest in horse racing was critical if the sport was to regain its trust with the public. 
 ''We need Congress to take an active interest in assuring the integrity, safety and economic viability of this magnificent sport,'' Jackson said.
 He also criticized the industry's ''broken business model,'' which rewards breeding over racing. Horse owners, for example, invest $4.3 billion a year for a chance to compete for approximately $1.1 billion in purses.
 Jackson, who is the owner of the Kendall-Jackson winery, bucked that trend when he chose to race Curlin as a 4-year-old. Curlin won his fifth victory in a row last Saturday at the Stephen Foster Handicap at Churchill Downs and may try the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in October in France.
 ''There is every incentive to shorten horses' racing careers, racing them too young and retiring them too soon, in order to get them to stud sooner,'' he said.
 Representative Ed Whitfield, Republican from Kentucky and the subcommittee's ranking minority member, warned that the sport was at a ''crossroads.''
 ''I believe greed has trumped the health of the horse, health of the jockey, strength of the breed and integrity of the sport,'' he said. 
 Subcommittee members as well as the panelists discussed the breakdown and on-track euthanization of the filly Eight Belles after she finished second in the Derby, and the acknowledgment by the trainer Rick Dutrow that he injected the Derby and the Preakness Stakes champion Big Brown with the anabolic steroid Winstrol.
 Everyone agreed the sport had a drug problem.
 ''We have created the chemical horse,'' said Richard B. Shapiro, chairman of the California Horse Racing Board.
 Before the Belmont Stakes, Dutrow said he had taken Big Brown off Winstrol, fueling speculation that the colt's previous unbeaten record was the result of the drug.
 Schakowsky reprimanded Dutrow for not appearing before the committee. Dutrow said he had been ill since the Belmont, when Big Brown's bid to win the Triple Crown shattered when he finished last after being eased by jockey Kent Desormeaux in the final turn.
 Dutrow said he notified members of the subcommittee Wednesday that he would not attend, but Schakowsky said that was not the case. ''He never notified anybody on this committee staff,'' she said. ''I hope in the future he will join us and be part of the solution.''
 Representative Cliff Stearns, Republican from Florida, said Congress had jurisdiction to step in because of the Interstate Horse Racing Act of 1978, which allowed simulcast wagering and provided the legal basis for Internet horse betting by permitting it to take place across state lines. Last year, such wagering accounted for 90 percent of the $15 billion wagered on the sport.
 ''This is a wake-up call for you,'' Stearns said. ''There's abuse in your industry. You know that better than I.''
 In the written testimony that Dutrow submitted, he owned up to numerous rules violations involving drugs and medications. He also said he began giving his horses steroids a few years ago at the recommendation of one of his veterinarians.
 ''People have asked me why I do it,'' he wrote. ''My observation is that it helps the horses eat better. Their coats are brighter. They're more alert. It helps them train.''
 Dutrow also wrote that his horses had won hundreds of races while not on steroids. He said that they won two $1 million races last winter in Dubai, where steroids are prohibited.
 ''If steroids are banned in the United States, we'll stop using them,'' Dutrow wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (95%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%)

PERSON: JAN SCHAKOWSKY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



502 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Spike in School's Pregnancies Leads to Report That Some Resulted From Girls' Pact

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
At least 17 girls at the public high school in the seaside town of Gloucester, Mass., are expecting babies, and a Time magazine report says nearly half became pregnant after making a pact to do so and raise the children together.
 Local officials reached Thursday would not confirm the existence of such a pact but acknowledged that many of the 17 pregnancies -- a total four times as many as last school year at the 1,200-student school -- had been intentional. 
 ''I've heard some of them were not accidents; some of them were pleased when they got the results,'' said Greg Verga, a member of the Gloucester School Committee. ''I did hear that there were cases where a teen went in several times for pregnancy tests and seemed depressed when it was negative.''
 Joseph Sullivan, the principal of the school, Gloucester High, could not be reached for comment. But Time quoted him as saying that of the pregnant students, almost half, none older than 16, had engaged in the pact.
 Reached on Thursday, Mayor Carolyn Kirk said the existence of such an agreement was ''believable, in the sense that it would explain this spike'' in teenage pregnancies.
 Ms. Kirk, a member of the school committee, also said that some of those who impregnated the students were men in their mid-20s.
 Gloucester is a fishing town of 30,000 that is encountering hardships with the decline of the fishing industry.
 ''This is a city in transition going through a hard economic time,'' Ms. Kirk said. ''There are cuts in economic programs, cuts in services, cuts in after-school programs, and they're all impacting the social climate. We really let these kids down.'' 
 ''It's the social environment these girls are coming from,'' she added. ''They think that a baby can give them love or give them status or fill an empty space in their life, and these girls are very, very young. And I think if you talk to any teenage mother who is caring for an infant, the road is not easy.''
 The surge in teenage pregnancy has brought a heated debate over contraception and education in Gloucester, which is heavily Roman Catholic. The school clinic's medical director and its chief nurse practitioner both resigned in May after the hospital that administers grants for the clinic opposed making contraceptives available to students. 
 The clinic does not distribute contraceptives, and Gloucester High School's health curriculum has been cut for budget reasons, meaning there is no sex education, Ms. Kirk said. 
 Meanwhile, in addition to the 17 girls known to be pregnant, others continue to arrive at the clinic asking for pregnancy tests.
 The school committee is now considering educational programs on teenage pregnancy and weighing whether the clinic should distribute contraceptives. Mayor Kirk has instructed her health director to compile information about the issue from the state, other agencies and independent experts. She said the committee hoped to have a policy regarding education, contraception and related services in place by the start of the next school year. 
 ''It's very complicated,'' she said. ''There are many layers, and I am insisting on a process where the school committee can explore all of the layers, get good information, find out what works in other communities and come to a good decision on behalf of our children.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



503 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: To Drill or Not to Drill? There's the Rub

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The headlines of The Times of June 19 are horrifyingly surreal:
 ''Deals With Iraq Are Set to Bring Oil Giants Back.''
 ''Idea of Offshore Drilling Seems to Be Spreading.''
 ''A Hand-to-Hand Struggle With a Raging River.'' 
 ''Anxiety Grows in West Over Region's Efforts on Firefighting.''
 ''Sea Levels Rose Faster Than Estimated.''
 Nature is saying stop, while Oil is saying go. Haven't we learned? For so many reasons, it's time to leave oil in the ground! Paul R. Epstein
 Boston, June 19, 2008
 The writer is associate director, Center for Health and the Global Environment, Harvard Medical School.
 To the Editor:
 Allowing offshore drilling for gas as a solution to high fuel costs, as President Bush urges Congress to do, is as sensible as growing more food in response to rising levels of obesity or robbing a bank in response to overspending one's budget. 
 While it is not popular, the clear answer, as it is in the case of overeating and overspending, is to cut back in the consumption of food, in the consumption of one's salary and in the consumption of fuel.
 Painful as it is, I applaud the $4 gallon because it is the one thing that has finally gotten the public to focus on the fact that we need to consume less. For the first time, one hears from every quarter, turn off the lights in rooms you are not in, recycle that paper, drive less and take public transportation or ride your bike. That is the kind of talk political leaders should be encouraging, not new ways to keep up the old habits. 
 Sheryl E. Reich
 New York, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a 40-year Alaskan, I can tell you that opening of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is the most sensible solution for America's oil problems. Most of the people who are trying to stop drilling in the refuge have never been in our state. 
 You have no idea how little space they are talking about. Take a regular envelope, pretend that is the refuge ... now where you would put the stamp, that is the area they want to open. 
 Alyeska Pipeline has worked, the gas pipeline is in the process, and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge should be. Congress is making this a party fight. How about putting that energy into fighting for all Americans, as oil prices don't care whether you are Republican or Democrat? K. A. Denman
 Anchorage, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 People say we should have a Manhattan Project-style program to develop alternative energy. That is fine, but while the Manhattan Project was continuing, we did not put World War II on hold while we waited for the atom bomb. The conventional war was continually fought throughout that time. 
 By believing we should hold off on oil exploitation here, we leave ourselves vulnerable while we hope for what might prove to be the equivalent of spinning straw into gold. What we must do is explore for oil here, drill now and pay less while we seek alternative fuels at the same time. Terence Kane
 Long Beach, N.Y., June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Let's see: our entire planet is in danger because of the burning of fossil fuels, our economy is in the tank because of the rising cost of gasoline and diesel while the oil companies are announcing the biggest profits in the history of the planet, and we are going to open the oceans, our biggest source of both oxygen and food, to further offshore drilling. What could possibly be wrong with this picture?
 Let's get real. The solution to our energy problems is to find a different source of energy altogether from fossil fuels, not to pollute what's left of the planet to make a select few richer while the rest of us go down with the ship. The limited amount of oil there will only prolong the agony anyway. Judith Luber-Narod
 Northboro, Mass., June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Using New York Times logic (''The Big Pander to Big Oil,'' editorial, June 19), a farmer wouldn't plant corn because he wouldn't be able to harvest the next day. 
 Oil and natural gas exploration and production take time. Planning and investments made today may not pay off for years. But if companies hadn't bought leases years ago, consumers would have even less energy than they have today. 
 Companies buy leases because they believe that they'll find oil or natural gas there, but they won't know if that's true until they go through the exploration process, which takes months, even years.
 A lease that may appear to be idle could well be undergoing active exploration. Other leases simply do not have enough oil or natural gas to make drilling commercially viable. 
 As risky and time-consuming as exploration is, it is vital to meeting American consumers' energy needs. But it cannot happen if companies don't have access to areas under which the resources are believed to lie. 
 Red Cavaney
 President and Chief Executive
 American Petroleum Institute
 Washington, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thank you for bringing some sense to the oil issue. If President Bush cared about the future of his country, he would declare the coastal and wilderness oil a strategic reserve and leave it securely underground.
 We'll need it in the future more than we need it now. Glenn Cheney
 Hanover, Conn., June 19, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL HOPPE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WRITERS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (72%); OBESITY (69%); BUDGETS (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (66%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BANK ROBBERY (52%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); ARCTIC (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



504 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Soft and Poetic: Whisperlike Brushstrokes on Canvas

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

DATELINE: WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass. 

 BODY:
Retreat or plunge in? Artists contending with modern life can escape the bewildering tumult into transcendent realms of formal beauty and philosophical contemplation, or they can actively participate, injecting transformational energies into the social flux.
 This summer at the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in this bucolic town, the escapist option is beautifully displayed in two forms: a blissful exhibition of late-19th- and early-20th-century paintings and a serene new building by the Pritzker Prize-winning Japanese architect Tadao Ando.
 The exhibition, ''Like Breath on Glass: Whistler, Inness, and the Art of Painting Softly,'' was inspired in part by something the eminently quotable James McNeill Whistler once said: ''Paint should not be applied thick. It should be like breath on the surface of a pane of glass.'' 
 With that in mind, Marc Simpson, the Clark's curator of American art, has gathered 41 paintings, dating from the 1870s to 1919, by 15 Americans. The works are mostly landscapes in which painterly gestures, sharp edges and other signs of technical effort are minimized. Quiet, blurrily luminous scenes of natural calm by Whistler, George Inness, John Twachtman and Thomas Wilmer Dewing, among others, appear like mirages, as though they'd magically materialized on canvas. 
 Whistler was the most radical and the most influential. His small harbor scenes, ''Nocturnes,'' from the 1870s -- three are in the exhibition -- are so dark that they may look entirely abstract at first. But as you spend time with them, they appear increasingly realistic. Boats and distant buildings become discernible, and the impression of deep space, from which scattered points of light radiate, becomes amazingly palpable. The paintings create extraordinarily effective illusions of what the world looks like on a moonless, foggy night. 
 That Japanese art inspired Whistler's elegant formal economy is well known. It influenced others too. Twachtman's study in muted greens ''Arques-la-Baille'' (1885), with deftly painted reeds standing out against smooth, receding planes of pond water, a hazy hillside and pearlescent gray sky, is the Western equivalent of satori.
 Whistler's concern with visual perception connects him to the French Impressionists. Unlike those radical empiricists, however, who favored sunny, well-lighted subjects, Whistler had a preference for the liminal and the nocturnal, which add a dimension of mystery. A penchant for poetic effects animates most of the exhibition's other artists as well.
 Inness conceived of his painting as a spiritual practice. A follower of the Swedish mystic Emanuel Swedenborg, Inness created landscapes that seem illuminated from within by both natural and pantheistic light. See ''Hazy Morning, Montclair'' (1893), a picture of a nondescript tree in a flat grassy field. It seems drab at first and has a curiously ugly mottled surface. Then the cool white light of the not yet risen sun starts to glow beyond the farther trees and the edge of a house to the left, and a whole richly spacious world comes into view. You don't have to be a mystic to feel a sense of spiritual awakening.
 Besides being visually engaging, the exhibition raises, without definitively answering, intriguing conceptual questions. One is about photography. Many of the show's paintings give the impression of under- or overexposed and poorly focused photographs. Were the soft painters influenced by photography? Did they copy photographs or otherwise use them as visual sources? Might they have seen their works as analogous to a kind of spirit photography? That the show includes some exquisite Whistlerian landscapes painted by the photographer Edward Steichen early in his career makes these questions all the more compelling. 
 Then there is the gender issue. The show includes no female artists, but women are subjects of several paintings. William Merritt Chase's gorgeous, mostly red painting of a young woman relaxing in profile in an armchair is undoubtedly a hedonistic response to his friend Whistler's famous portrait of his formidably upright mother.
 Gender is most conspicuously at issue in the works of Dewing, who painted young women in neo-Classical garb in vaporous pastoral environments. These women are fashionable beauties, but they are also nature goddesses. 
 From today's perspective his paintings may seem laughably sexist and vapidly decorative. But consider the times, a period of explosive industrial and economic growth driven by ruthlessly ambitious men. Dewing's paintings -- and soft painting in general -- might represent an alternative way of being, a ''feminine'' state of sensuous receptivity, soulful indolence and communion with nature. 
 So, while soft painting may seem superficially disengaged from gritty social reality, a deeper view might interpret it as a cry for attention from the repressed feminine side of America's male-dominated collective psyche. That, at least, is one way to account for the tantalizing effect of this exhibition.
 It will not be lost on many visitors that the Clark's verdant setting is much in tune with the pastoral vision of the soft painters. That is affirmed by the new addition to the 140-acre campus, the Ando-designed Stone Hill Center, which houses an art conservation laboratory, an outdoor cafe and small galleries for special exhibitions.
 Built on a grassy hillside a short hike through the woods from the Clark's main buildings, it is a two-story, 32,000-square-foot gray box of steel, cedar and glass. Outside, angled concrete walls imprinted with wood-grain textures visually break up the monolithic boxcar form of the main structure and support a triangular porch that juts out over the hill. Because the building is set into the hill -- its lower half buried on one side and fully exposed to northern light on the other -- and because of its low profile, it seems gently integrated into the landscape. It is a blessed departure from the kind of showy architectural statements many art museums have been prone to in recent years. 
 (A second phase of expansion, also designed by Mr. Ando, will entail a larger building and a reflecting pool. To be constructed mostly underground, that building will have extensive exhibition galleries and a conference center.)
 Indoors, the Stone Hill Center spaces are cool and nicely proportioned, and the two galleries -- on either side of an open hallway, totaling 2,500 square feet -- seem at once intimate and generously spacious. Windows and a doorway at one end open onto a wood-floored porch that should be for Zen monks only.
 This summer the galleries are displaying a modest reply to the soft painting exhibition: a selection of works by John Singer Sargent on one side and Winslow Homer on the other, all from the museum's permanent collection. Both artists practiced the opposite of soft painting (though Sargent did do some soft painting, as an example reveals in ''Breath on Glass''). 
 Sargent's two small views of Venice -- indoors and outdoors -- and his exotic, Orientalist painting of a woman in white robes in a white temple inhaling fumes of burning ambergris exhibit a painterly virtuosity that the soft painters avoided. Homer's late paintings of roiling ocean waters have a churning, erotic energy that would have given those prim masters of self-effacing hypersensitivity nightmares. 
 ''Like Breath on Glass: Whistler, Inness, and the Art of Painting Softly'' is at the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, 225 South Street, Williamstown, Mass.; (413) 458-2303 or clarkart.edu, through Oct. 19. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stone Hill Center, an addition at the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, has galleries for special exhibitions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''Arques-la-Baille'' (1885) is John Twachtman's study in muted greens.(PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART)
 Edward Steichen's ''Across the Salt Marshes, Huntington'' (1905).(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOLEDO MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



505 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Facing Shortages, China Raises Domestic Energy Prices

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Faced with increasingly severe fuel shortages and the prospect of power failures during the summer air-conditioning season, the Chinese government unexpectedly announced sharp increases late Thursday night in regulated prices for gasoline, diesel and electricity.
 The increases are the latest sign of how China's integration into the global marketplace has limited the flexibility of the country's leaders in responding to economic crises. 
 The government has come under intense pressure recently from both environmentalists and other governments to ease up on its fuel subsidies, which are blamed for distorting global markets, encouraging greater consumption and pushing oil prices higher for other nations. 
 The government, like many around the world, has struggled to keep up those subsidies as oil prices have spiked in recent months. Finally, despite fears that it will spur inflation, the government raised the retail price of diesel by 18 percent, to the equivalent of $3.58 a gallon, and the price of gasoline by 16 percent, to $3.83 a gallon. Electricity tariffs and the price of jet fuel were also raised.
 The higher prices could prompt businesses and people across China to use less fuel and electricity, potentially slowing China's voracious oil consumption as well as its steep rise in emissions of global warming gases. Following the news, world oil prices immediately dropped more than $4 per barrel. 
 But some experts said the Chinese market was so heavily distorted by state subsidies for fuel that the higher prices might encourage refiners to produce more gasoline and diesel for Chinese consumers, possibly stoking new demand.
 Either way, higher energy costs threaten not only to push up prices here, but also the prices of many of the goods China ships to the United States. Inflation in China was 7.7 percent last month and over 8 percent in February, March and April. While top Chinese officials are worried about inflation, they have faced another problem in recent weeks: the Shanghai stock market has slid steeply, leaving large numbers of angry shareholders.
 Hours before the government raised energy prices, the Shanghai market had plunged 6.5 percent in Thursday trading, falling partly on worries of heavy losses among Chinese energy-related companies, which have been selling fuel and energy for less than it costs to produce them.
 Until now, the government's preoccupation with consumer price inflation had many economists wondering when fuel prices would be allowed to rise at all, despite problems in the stock market.
 China is the world's second largest oil consumer, after the United States. With the announcement Thursday, China became the eighth Asian country to raise fuel prices in the past month after concluding that low retail prices could not be sustained indefinitely through government subsidies.
 American concerns about China's price controls on fuel were raised as recently as this week in high-level economic talks between China and the United States in Annapolis, Md. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. raised the subject during the talks, which took place Tuesday and Wednesday. 
 Mr. Paulson, in a speech the previous week, called on China to lift controls and cut subsidies in the energy sector, arguing that they were harmful to the dynamics of supply and demand. Fuel price controls, he said, were producing ''persistent gasoline and diesel shortages'' in China, and also contributing to ''power outages during snowstorms this past January and February.''
 Price controls, he added, also ''often lead to smuggling and corruption'' as well as shortages that contribute to global price spikes in the energy sector.
 Treasury officials did not say Thursday that American pressure had led to the change in China's policies, but they welcomed the move as a possible sign that China was listening to analysts from other countries.
 Chinese officials have spoken for several years of their desire to move toward a more energy-efficient economy. They have periodically mentioned an intention to impose taxes on energy once world oil prices begin to fall, so as to keep the pressure on Chinese businesses and consumers to improve efficiency.
 Prices for gasoline and diesel had been fixed since Nov. 1, even as world oil prices rose 45 percent in that period. If the Chinese retail price increase on Thursday has a lasting downward effect on world oil prices, it could strengthen the position of economists who have argued that the United States should raise gasoline taxes to limit demand and drive down global oil prices.
 Until now, the government's subsidies have forced the state-controlled refiners to lose money by selling gasoline and diesel for less than the cost of the crude oil needed to make them. Power companies, too, have become reluctant to operate oil-fired power stations when they cannot sell the electricity for enough money to cover the cost of oil.
 As refineries cut back their output this spring, the result has been crippling fuel shortages, particularly for diesel. Those shortages have already produced long lines of trucks at service stations, and might threaten the gathering of the summer harvest.
 President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao took the highly unusual step on June 5 of ordering that tractors and other farm vehicles be given top priority for all supplies of diesel -- usually the kind of measure that would be handled by far more junior officials. 
 Farmers were exempted on Thursday night from the latest increase in fuel prices, as were three provinces damaged in earthquakes last month: Sichuan, Shaanxi and Gansu Provinces.
 Power plants that rely on oil have also been shutting down because of high prices. While China relies mainly on coal and hydroelectric power for electricity generation, oil-fired plants are important in southeastern China.
 Severe snowstorms in January and February, followed by earthquake damage and disruption for the national rail network last month, have interfered with coal shipments to some power plants and made electricity generation from oil-fired plants even more important.
 China struggles each summer to generate enough electricity, although there have been a few signs that electricity generation capacity is beginning to catch up with demand. The government also announced on Thursday night that it was limiting increases in coal prices, which would help power companies afford their fuel -- although at the risk of introducing the same kind of price control distortions to the coal market that have already caused problems for diesel users.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMPTION (76%); JET FUEL (73%); UTILITY RATES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (50%) EAST CHINA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (50%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



506 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS; Modest Gain After a Drop in Oil Prices

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks ended a back-and-forth session with modest advances on Thursday as a sharp drop in oil prices helped counter renewed concerns about the strength of the economy. 
 Oil fell nearly $5 a barrel after China announced plans to raise caps on gasoline and diesel fuel prices, a move that could ease global demand. Rising prices have pinned down investor sentiment for weeks with fears that the run-up would force businesses and consumers to curb spending.
 But worrisome comments from Citigroup may have dimmed some investors' spirits. The bank warned that ''substantial'' write-downs on bad debt were still to come, sending Citigroup shares lower and weighing on the financial sector. Citi was among the steepest decliners of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average.
 Still, the drop in the oil price seemed to encourage some investors to buy stocks.
 ''It really seems to be a tug of war between the good news and the bad news, or the not-as-bad news and the terrible news,'' said Jennifer Ellison, principal with wealth management firm Bingham, Osborn & Scarborough in San Francisco.
 The Dow rose 34.03, or 0.28 percent, to 12,063.09, after again falling briefly below the 12,000 mark, as it did in intraday trading on Wednesday. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.02, or 0.38 percent, to 1,342.83, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 32.35, or 1.33 percent, to 2,462.06.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 7.12, or 0.97 percent, to 737.83.
 Crude oil futures fell $4.75 to settle at $131.93 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after China disclosed plans to raise prices for gasoline by 16 percent and diesel fuel by 18 percent.
 Economic reports were mixed. A regional manufacturing report from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve pointed to slumping demand and rising prices. But the Conference Board, a private business group, said its forecast of future economic activity ticked higher by 0.1 percent in May.
 The Labor Department reported that initial claims for unemployment declined by 5,000 last week from the previous week, a smaller decrease than expected. The four-week moving average of initial claims, a less volatile indicator, rose -- a sign that the job market remained strained.
 Volatility is likely to continue Friday because of what is known as quadruple witching -- the simultaneous expiration of contracts for stock-index futures, stock-index options, stock options and single-stock futures. That often leads to heavy trading near the start and end of the session.
 Citigroup fell 23 cents, to $20.17, on Thursday after the company's comments about the likelihood of further write-offs of bad debt.
 Circuit City Stores fell 7 cents, to $3.98 after posting a first-quarter loss that was wider than last year's because of sinking sales at established stores. The electronics retailer also said it was suspending its dividend.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32, to 97 10/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 4.21 percent, from 4.14 percent.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
Graph showing the Dow Jones industrial average for yesterday. CHART: THE FAVORITES
 Chart showing the stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BONDS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (59%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



507 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Markets For Carbon

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
As the United States moves toward taking action on global warming, practical experience with carbon markets in the European Union raises a critical question: Will such systems ever work? 
 Backers of these markets, which involve setting limits on greenhouse gases and then allowing companies to buy and sell emission permits, see the approach as one of the cheapest and most effective ways to control the gases in advanced economies. The presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain have both endorsed the idea. 
 Yet in Europe, which created the world's largest greenhouse gas market three years ago, early evidence suggests the whole approach could fail. Carbon dioxide emissions are still rising in many industries, not falling.
 ''We currently are in danger of losing yet another decade in the fight against global warming,'' said Hugo Robinson of Open Europe, a research group in London. 
 This week, the European Environment Agency reported that emissions from factories and plants that trade pollution permits rose 0.4 percent in 2006 over the previous year, and 0.7 percent in 2007, the first two years of the system's operations. 
 Europeans took an early lead in efforts to curb global warming, championing the Kyoto Protocol and imposing a market-based system in 2005 to cap emissions from about 12,000 factories producing electricity, glass, steel, cement, pulp and paper. Companies buy or sell permits based on whether they overshoot or come in beneath their pollution goals.
 European Union officials acknowledge that establishing such a vast market has been more complicated than they expected.
 ''Of course it was ambitious to set up a market for something you can't see and to expect to see immediate changes in behavior,'' said Jacqueline McGlade, the executive director of the European Environment Agency. ''It's easy, with hindsight, to say we could have been tougher.''
 A major stumbling block arose at the outset, when some participating governments allocated too many trading permits to polluters when the market was created. That led to a near-market failure after the value of the permits fell by half, and called into question the validity of the system. 
 Since then, officials have promised changes, and the price of carbon permits has largely recovered. Yet a ferocious lobbying battle is under way as European Union regulators seek to overhaul dysfunctional parts of the market by charging polluting companies more and reducing the supply of permits. Brussels is also seeking to consolidate its oversight of the market, rather than leave it partly in the hands of national governments that have proved susceptible to corporate lobbying.
 ''The politics you're seeing in Europe now are the real politics of carbon,'' said David Victor, the director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development at Stanford.
 Energy-intensive industries, like power, steel and aluminum, have challenged proposals that would force them to buy many more permits than in the past. During the three years in which they participated in the first phase of the market, carbon emissions in the iron and steel sector in Britain alone rose more than 10 percent while emissions in the cement industry rose more than 50 percent, according to transcripts from the British Parliament. 
 Electricity producers, oil companies, steel companies and airlines are among those fighting to protect their interests, with some threatening to freeze investments in Europe unless the system is tweaked to suit them.
 Meanwhile, poorer countries in the union, led by Hungary, are clamoring to overturn emissions allowances that they say are too stingy and risk undermining their economic growth. 
 The proposals are also under attack from environmentalists, who want to restrict polluters from using large numbers of permits from an offsetting program run by the United Nations. It funnels money to poor countries for investments that purportedly reduce carbon emissions, but the effectiveness of the program has been questioned.
 ''The sheer amount of lobbying creates so much uncertainty about the way these markets operate that nobody really is investing in cleaner technologies in Europe,'' said Mr. Robinson of Open Europe. 
 Carbon markets, also known as cap-and-trade systems, have come into vogue because they are more politically palatable than imposing carbon taxes. 
 Americans pioneered pollution markets in the 1970s and used them on a broader scale with some success during the 1990s to control emissions from power plants that contributed to acid rain. American officials also pushed hard for emissions trading to be included in the Kyoto climate treaty on the grounds that markets are the most effective way of encouraging innovative emission-reducing technologies.
 But the momentum in the United States to create a nationwide carbon market ground to a halt in 2001, when President Bush withdrew support for the Kyoto Protocol. Mr. Bush said carbon controls would put an undue burden on the American economy unless fast-growing countries like China and India also made commitments to cut emissions.
 Now the tide is turning again in favor of carbon markets in the United States. Although the Senate this month blocked a bill that would have imposed a cap-and-trade system to slash greenhouse gases by 2050, the issue is expected to come up again after the elections. Both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have pledged support for market-based systems like the one in Europe. 
 Mr. Obama has said he supports the use of a market to reduce carbon emissions by 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. His proposal would require pollution credits to be auctioned rather than given away to big industries, including coal and oil companies.
 Mr. McCain favors giving permits away to big polluters before moving to an ''eventual'' auctioning of permits to reduce emission levels 60 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. 
 Americans were likely to experience many of the same problems already playing out in Europe, said Mr. Victor, the Stanford expert. ''The challenge for the United States now will be to have enough pork to get people to the meal, but not to give away so much that we end up squandering public resources,'' he said.
 The biggest question hanging over the European system -- and that is likely to be of major concern to American policy makers -- is whether the rules can be tightened enough that they achieve the social goal of reducing the emissions that are warming the planet.
 Henrik Hasselknippe, the director of emissions trading analysis at Point Carbon, a consultancy in Oslo, said the European system was beginning to show signs of success. He said the price of carbon had been rising, and that would prompt factories and installations covered by the system to move toward cleaner power generation, such as burning natural gas instead of coal.
 Mr. Hasselknippe said efforts to overhaul the European system by reducing corporate influence and government largess would mean greater certainty about price of carbon permits during the next decade. And he predicted that emissions from industries covered by the European system would finally decline this year, by 2 percent.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture on Friday with an article about Europe's carbon-trading market may have left an incorrect impression that the smog shown obscuring the Eiffel Tower was caused by emissions of carbon dioxide. While smog and carbon dioxide emissions share a common source in automotive and industrial use of fossil fuels, smog results from a combination of ground-level ozone and hydrocarbon particulates, not from carbon dioxide.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Smog nearly obscures the Eiffel Tower in 2006, the year after a European carbon market was created to cap emissions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANE DE SAKUTIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PULP INDUSTRY (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING (67%); PAPER MILLS (67%); PAPER MFG (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); PULP MILLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



508 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: The Most Bang For Their Sterling

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
IN Manhattan, foreign investors, trading on the dollar's weakness, have helped keep apartment prices at stratospheric levels. 
 But across the country, in markets that have typically attracted second-home buyers, overseas money has been far more ethereal. And it still remains both a great hope and a much less sure bet.
 Agents for properties adjacent to America's most desired beach and ski communities say there have been a lot more foreigners looking to take advantage of favorable exchange rates in the last year. But they say these prospective buyers are still wary of America's volatile economy and concerned that housing prices could continue to decline. The result is that despite their interest to get a great deal, foreigners have been slow to purchase in all but the most recession-proof properties in the most expensive areas, like East Hampton and Beverly Hills.
 Rick Hoffman, regional senior vice president with Corcoran, which runs one of the largest real estate offices on the East End of Long Island, said sales at the very high end have remained very strong, though they have slowed in the midtier, which he defined as $1 million to $3 million. ''We are seeing more foreigners looking at properties,'' he said, ''but nothing like New York City has had.'' 
 ''What we are definitely seeing is an increase in foreign renters,'' he said, noting the firming of the euro and pound over the last two years and a leveling of rental prices. ''So for them,'' he added, ''it is an automatic discount.''
 In other markets, like Cape Cod, which is not inexpensive but still pales compared with the Hamptons, foreigners are cautious, but are looking and are providing hope for the market. 
 ''In truth, this year was a little slower out of the blocks than last spring,'' said Brendan Cunningham , the chief executive of ERA Cape Real Estate in Harwichport, Mass. 
 But he said that open houses have been full of foreigners interested in renting, perhaps with an eye to buying. The Cape, he said, was getting a large number of Britons, in part because of a marketing campaign in England.
 Deb Howard, who runs a real estate firm in the Lake Tahoe area, said her region was also among those drawing a lot more foreigners, primarily from Mexico and Asia because of more favorable currency rates. There, too, she said, a lot of visitors are looking but have not yet committed to buy. ''I am seeing an increase in inquiries; the early signs of the interest,'' she said.
 Despite that hesitation, Ms. Howard said she saw a positive trend. ''I believe it will eventually be good for sales,'' she said. She added that in just the last two years the Heavenly Valley Ski Resort, which straddles the Nevada-California border, has had a 22 percent increase in condo owners who registered their first address as being overseas.
 ''Eventually,'' of course, can be a painful period of time to wait. Some second-home markets have fared poorly in recent years. Sales of vacation properties fell nearly 31 percent in 2007 from the previous year, according to the National Association of Realtors.
 By contrast, the sales of homes that were bought as primary residences declined by only 10 percent in the same period, the association said.
 NEITHER the association nor the Census Bureau keeps track of how many of those second homes went to people who make their primary residence outside of the United States, but there can be no doubt that the exchange rates for the last few years have made such purchases tempting. Although it has lately recouped some strength, in the last two years alone, the dollar is off nearly 6 percent against the pound, over 18 percent against the euro and about 9 percent against both the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso.
 Economists who track the housing market say foreign buyers must be helping, or are at least lessening the pain, in the real estate market. ''The circumstantial evidence strongly argues that global investors are indeed supporting these second-home markets,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist of Moody's Economy.com. 
 ''People have cash overseas, and U.S. vacation spots look like a bargain, so we are not seeing the decline in prices one might expect,'' he said. ''In places like Miami, for example, prices are falling but not collapsing the way you would have thought. It shows decline, not free fall.''
 Although the Realtors' association doesn't keep track of what percentage of second-home buyers are foreigners, it can say for sure that the buyers who are most likely to put down money describe themselves as long-term owners -- that is, not so worried about immediately recouping money for a mortgage through rentals.
 That focus on long-term value has hurt places like Orlando, which sells a lot more moderately priced properties and condos, said Darlene J. Brannigan, an agent with Florida Spirit Real Estate Services, who primarily sells properties under $400,000 near Disney World. 
 ''Foreigners were our best buyers,'' she lamented, particularly the British and the Irish until 2007. ''Now they are afraid of our shaky economy. If they buy a house, what if it crashes and goes lower and lower. And I am supposed to rent them out when they are not occupied, and that's getting harder and harder.''
 But areas that have historically held their value are a lure to investors who don't need to worry about long-term carrying costs.
 Last summer, soon after John Cook sold a vacation property in Italy, he visited friends in New York City. As part of the trip, Mr. Cook, who runs a furniture importing business from London, went to the friends' summer home in East Hampton. He fell in love with the beaches and with what his money could buy on this side of the Atlantic.
 ''I guess I was bowled over at what a pound was worth compared to the dollar,'' he said. He decided to start looking. In the fall, he returned and visited 30 properties and bid on three. By January he had closed a deal.
 AS it turns out, Mr. Cook will rent out his property for $30,000 for July and August but only, he said, because his agent, Michael Schultz, also of Corcoran's Eastern Long Island office, found an interested party and delivered the deal to his door. Otherwise, he might just have kept it for himself. He plans to make his money in the resale eventually, and he is confident that the Hamptons will hold value.
 The place he chose was in the woods instead of close to the ocean. With a double-height ceiling in the living room and a 40-foot in-ground pool in the back, it was far from a dump -- but with three bedrooms, nor was it a mansion. Although it was listed at $1.25 million, Mr. Cook said he had managed to pay a little less. Still, he added, with the British pound at about $2, ''it felt like a steal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (76%); SKIING (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); RESORTS (72%); LAKES (71%); TRENDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



509 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Lenovo Brand, A Stalwart in China, Savors Olympic Stage

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
WITH an Italian-sounding name, a line of computers once made by I.B.M., and a chief executive who hails from Dell and NCR, the Lenovo Group is not a company that most Americans would assume is Chinese. 
 And that is just fine with Lenovo, which happens to be the only Chinese company having a worldwide sponsorship for the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
 Lenovo, which bought I.B.M.'s personal computer business in 2005, plans to use its Olympics campaign as a launching pad for its brand, which had once played understudy to the I.B.M. name. 
 But it won't exactly be highlighting its home-field advantage. Although Lenovo's largest shareholder is the Chinese government and its biggest operations are in Beijing, Americans who watch ads during the Olympics this August will see only a company that wants to show off its technology. 
 ''In China, the advertising will be very much leveraging the heritage of a Chinese company,'' said Glen Gilbert, Lenovo's vice president for brand management. But ''in the U.S., we won't be making direct mention of that.''
 Lenovo is not trying to hide its Chinese roots, Mr. Gilbert said. Rather, it wants to position Lenovo as a global brand and highlight the quality of its computers. ''In terms of priorities, we have so much more that we will be conveying,'' he said.
 Whatever the intention, the strategy makes sense in light of the political outcry over Beijing as an Olympics host. The Olympic torch has served as a lightning rod for public anger over China's policies in Tibet, Sudan and elsewhere, and Lenovo was the company that designed it. The torch is scheduled to arrive in Tibet on Saturday, though its stay there has been reduced to one day from three.
 American sponsors of the Summer Games -- like Coca-Cola, General Electric, McDonald's, Johnson & Johnson and Visa -- have been seeming to distance themselves from the host government, playing up the message that the Olympics are about athletic achievement, period. 
 At least one protest group, Dream for Darfur, led by the actress Mia Farrow, continues to hold some feet to the fire: on Friday her organization plans to stage protests against four Olympics sponsors that it says have not passed certain thresholds for corporate responsibility. Lenovo is not among them.
 For Lenovo, there are many reasons to be at arm's length about China. 
 ''The typical American still associates Chinese products with cheap -- precisely what Lenovo doesn't want,'' Lou Hoffman, chief executive of the Hoffman Agency, a global public relations firm with offices in Beijing and Shanghai, said in an e-mail message. ''They want to be viewed as a global company, not a Chinese company, in the West or they'll never be able to beat the cheap rap.''
 Even before the Olympics, Lenovo had been backing away from China. It had moved its headquarters from Beijing to Morrisville, N.C., which had been the area of I.B.M.'s operations, after the acquisition; last year, it abolished official headquarters altogether. It now refers to itself on its Web site as a ''global company with executive offices'' in Beijing, Singapore and North Carolina.
 In 2003, the company dropped its previous English name, the Legend Group, which it had been called since soon after its inception in 1984. It chose Lenovo as a distinctly non-Chinese name, appending the first syllable of ''legend'' to the Latin word ''novo,'' meaning new or innovative.
 The name change set the stage for a global marketing push that began in 2004, when Lenovo paid $65 million to become an Olympic sponsor for the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy, and the 2008 Games in Beijing.
 The explicit goal was to elevate the brand from a Chinese one to a worldwide one. An Olympics sponsorship ''puts you in the league of some premium brands,'' said Deepak Advani, Lenovo's chief marketing officer. 
 Also in 2004, the company agreed to buy I.B.M.'s personal computer business, a deal that put Lenovo's name on the American radar screen -- and under heavy scrutiny. Because of Lenovo's affiliation with the Chinese government, American officials raised the question of whether the Chinese government would be taking over the critical federal contracts that I.B.M. had handled, and the American business community deplored the deal as sad evidence of China's growing economic supremacy. The transaction closed in 2005 without formal opposition.
 The next step for Lenovo was to confront its image in the marketplace. The company went to more than 4,000 business customers and asked how they felt about Chinese ownership of the I.B.M. PC business, which had been dominated by the ThinkPad brand. 
 Mr. Advani, who worked for I.B.M. before the acquisition, worried it would be as though a ''company from Sri Lanka was buying iPod from Apple -- the cachet, the next day, would disappear.''
 ''We wanted to make sure we maintained the ThinkPad strength,'' he said.
 To clear the hurdle of public acceptance, Lenovo decided to play down its Chinese heritage and focus on telling business customers that ''not much has changed -- same people, same processes, same products,'' Mr. Advani said. ''If we were to lose those customers, then it would be a very deep hole we would have to dig ourselves out of.'' 
 To that end, Lenovo kept using the I.B.M. logo on the ThinkPad. Though Lenovo had the rights to the I.B.M. name for five years, Mr. Advani drew up a plan to phase it out, using the Turin and Beijing Olympics as turning points. It was a move analysts applauded. 
 ''Building their brand from Day 1 was going to be one of those big challenges,'' said Bryan Ma, an analyst in the Asia/Pacific region at IDC, the technology consulting firm. ''Outside of China, of course, nobody really knows that Lenovo brand name.''
 In Turin, Lenovo started advertising its own name alongside ThinkPad's in its first global campaign for the product. The ads used computer-generated images to show off various ThinkPad features, and ended by mentioning that Lenovo was now making the computers -- one signed off ''New Thinking. New ThinkPad.'' 
 ''That reassured ThinkPad loyalists that their favorite product was in very good hands,'' said Mr. Gilbert of Lenovo.
 In Beijing this summer, Lenovo will take the next step, this time playing up Lenovo's brand rather than the ThinkPad's. 
 Television spots on NBC will try to show that Lenovo makes good computers: one will highlight how the company is running the information technology for the Olympics; others will promote the engineering of the ThinkPad line and the design aspects of a consumer line introduced in January, the IdeaPad.
 All of the spots emphasize the parent company, and are meant to show how Lenovo ''inspires ideas, helps you to share them, store them,'' Mr. Gilbert said. ''I'd like to think of it as, this will put Lenovo on the map and will show Lenovo to the uninitiated.''
 Lenovo is also doing heavy online marketing. It plans to sponsor an Internet lounge inside the Olympic Village at the Beijing Games, and, with Google, has built a blog platform for the athletes. A Facebook application that Lenovo sponsored, which is scheduled to be introduced by midsummer, lets people follow their favorite team or sport.
 Today, 34 percent of Lenovo's sales are in China, while most of its growth comes from elsewhere. Lenovo ranks fourth in global market share for personal computers, behind Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Acer, according to IDC. Although the majority of Lenovo employees work in Beijing, its chief executive, William J. Amelio, is based in Singapore, and its chairman, Yang Yuanqing, in North Carolina.
 Last summer, Lenovo decided to globalize its marketing, handing responsibility for all the work outside China to a single office in Bangalore, India. About a third of the 120 workers there are from Lenovo and two-thirds from its agency, Ogilvy & Mather.
 Together they are assembling a library of country-specific marketing materials. In a recent photo shoot, for example, the team assembled six versions of the same ad, using Indian models and backdrops in one shot, Caucasian models and Americanized backdrops in another, and so on.
 This year may be Lenovo's last big presence at the Olympics. The company did not renew its sponsorship and will be replaced by its Taiwanese rival Acer, which is in a position similar to Lenovo's four years ago: it just acquired the American brand Gateway and is trying to build up a global presence.
 Mr. Advani said that the Olympics had given Lenovo's marketing a ''big initial boost'' but that the next phase will be to sponsor events at the local and national level. ''We do have a pretty massive task in front of us, to build our brand globally,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Olympic torch, designed by Lenovo, was carried by a member of China's Uighur minority in Xinjiang on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Lenovo computer technicians testing computers in the Beijing National Aquatics Center. A sponsor of the Olympics, Lenovo is providing more than 30,000 pieces of equipment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LENOVO, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%)

COMPANY: LENOVO GROUP LTD (92%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); HOFFMAN AGENCY (50%)

TICKER: 0992 (HKSE) (92%); JNJ (NYSE) (64%); KO (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (64%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIBET (92%); SUDAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



510 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia Fed Reports Decline in Factory Activity

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Activity at mid-Atlantic factories has fallen for a seventh consecutive month as costs shot up to a 28-year high, while new data on unemployment benefits points to a sluggish labor market. 
 In a report that underscored the economy's persistent weakness, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said Thursday that its business activity index dropped to minus 17.1 in June, from minus 15.6 in May, well below Wall Street's forecasts of around minus 10.
 The Philadelphia Fed's prices-paid index soared to its highest since 1980.
 Some analysts are hoping that exports, bolstered by a weaker dollar, will help the economy skirt recession, despite a teetering housing market and soft consumer spending. The latest figures suggested that might not be happening.
 A reading below zero in the Philadelphia Fed survey indicates contraction in the region's manufacturing sector. The index has not broken above that threshold since November 2007.
 Separate data from the Conference Board, a private industry group, suggested the economy had so far avoided an outright contraction. Its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.1 percent in May, the same as in April.
 The Labor Department reported that the number of American workers filing new claims for jobless benefits fell 5,000 last week, but still totaled 381,000, not far below levels generally associated with hard times.
 The Philadelphia Fed's survey showed the regional employment outlook also deteriorated, for a third consecutive month. Its jobs index fell to minus 6.9 in June, from minus 1.0 in May.
 The prices-paid index surged to 69.3 in June, the highest since 1980, from 53.8 in May. But companies were having trouble passing on these rising costs to customers. The index for prices received slipped to 29.7, from 31.6. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: LEADING INDICATORS: An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board)
 Graph showing the 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board, predicting economic activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



511 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Europe, Officially Calm, Reacts to Tanker Move

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH and LESLIE WAYNE. 
Matthew Saltmarsh reported from Paris and Leslie Wayne from New York.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Seeking to avoid a new trans-Atlantic trade clash, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company and European politicians played down on Thursday a report that might jeopardize a $35 billion United States military contract awarded to EADS in partnership with Northrop Grumman.
 Boeing, which was EADS's rival for the contract to build a new generation of Air Force refueling tankers, appealed the Feb. 29 decision, and a review issued Wednesday by the Government Accountability Office found flaws in the process that it said warranted reopening the bidding. 
 ''Everyone on this side of the Atlantic is extremely disappointed,'' said Alexandra Ashbourne, who heads Ashbourne Strategic Consulting in London, an aerospace analysis firm. ''There was the very firm belief that the Northrop-EADS plane was the right solution for the Air Force.'' 
 Boeing's appeal was supported by members of Congress who argued that important military contracts should not be awarded to foreign companies like the French-German EADS, the parent of Airbus. 
 EADS officials dismissed the accountability office's conclusion, maintaining that the bidding process had been open. But the company and European politicians appeared eager to avoid opening a new rift as the United States heads into a presidential election in which jobs and a stumbling economy are at the forefront of the debate. 
 France, which has clashed with the United States in a separate dispute between Airbus and Boeing over aircraft subsidies, gave an officially muted response. The office of President Nicolas Sarkozy declined to comment. 
 But Bernard Carayon, a member of Mr. Sarkozy's ruling center-right UMP party, said the decision sowed the seeds of a potential clash with the United States, which he said was practicing economic nationalism. ''The challenge to the air-refueling contract by the U.S. Government Accountability Office is a blow to our trans-Atlantic relations,'' he said in a statement. 
 ''The defense by the Americans of their economic interests is more important than choosing the best and cheapest military plan,'' he added. ''It's not the first time that national interest has superseded market logic.'' 
 Privately, some French officials say the G.A.O. action confirms their sense that it is difficult to work with the United States, especially on flagship programs. 
 ''Europeans felt that they had come with a grade-A solution for the Pentagon,'' Ms. Ashbourne said. ''And now it has become a very complicated situation.'' 
 On Wednesday, the EADS chief executive, Louis Gallois, said he was disappointed by the decision but added: ''It's important to recognize that the G.A.O. announcement is an evaluation of the selection process, not the merits of the aircraft.'' 
 The Air Force has 60 days to respond to the G.A.O.'s findings. 
 Randy Belote, a spokesman for Northrop Grumman, said, ''We continue to believe that Northrop Grumman offered the most modern and capable tanker.'' 
 A person with knowledge of EADS's strategy said that the company would continue to argue that the tanker -- the KC-45, based on the frame of the Airbus A330 refueling aircraft -- was the best on the market, having been extensively tested and ordered by Australia, Britain, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. 
 ''People really felt that the A330 was the superior product and thought that it was the right choice,'' Ms. Ashbourne said. 
 Daniel Keohane, a research fellow at the European Union Institute for Security Studies in Paris, said the case was of enormous significance to trans-Atlantic military trade in an era where the aerospace supply chain is increasingly global. 
 Selling military equipment to the United States has long been difficult for European companies, who cite legislative hurdles like the Buy American Act, passed by Congress in 1933, which allows procurement preferences for domestically produced goods. 
 Some European companies, like BAE Systems of Britain, have used acquisitions as a route into the market. In May, BAE spent $4.1 billion to buy Armor Holdings, which makes vests and trucks for the Army. The company also spent $4 billion in 2005 to acquire United Defense Industries, which makes the Bradley fighting vehicle used in Iraq. 
 Others have followed the BAE route. Finmeccanica of Italy agreed last month to pay $5.2 billion for DRS Technologies of the United States, a deal that will require at least three separate reviews by United States agencies. 
 For EADS, rocked with insider trading scandals, the setback in Washington could not come at a worse time. 
 The tanker program, while large in its own right, was to be the first phase of a multipronged project. After setting up an assembly plant in Mobile, Ala., to build the tanker, EADS had planned to shift some A330 cargo assembly to the United States. 
 But when it came to playing the Washington game, Boeing may have held the upper hand. It lined up lawyers to protest loudly and provide information to the G.A.O., and undertook a prominent media campaign involving ads in major newspapers.
 Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama, who lobbied hard for the EADS proposal and the jobs it would bring to his state, expressed disappointment with the G.A.O. report, but said he still believed that EADS might prevail. ''It is important to remember that this is not a decision on who ultimately wins, but about the process,'' Mr. Riley said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Boeing 767 on the assembly line in Everett, Wash. The 767 is the proposed model for Boeing's Air Force refueling tanker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA TRUJILLO/SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (91%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (96%); AIRBUS SAS (91%); BOEING CO (85%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US AIR FORCE (56%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (96%); EAD (MCE) (96%); BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); NOC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



512 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Veterans' Education Aid in a Deal on War Spending

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House voted on Thursday to offer what amounts to a free college education to the new generation of military veterans as part of a costly legislative package that finances the war in Iraq through the end of President Bush's tenure and into the early months of the next administration.
 In allowing approval of about $162 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, Democrats essentially stopped trying to use Pentagon spending as a tool to force Mr. Bush to withdraw combat troops or impose other conditions on his handling of the war. 
 ''The president simply will not sign such legislation,'' said Speaker Nancy Pelosi, an opponent of the war. ''Our troops are in harm's way. They need to be taken care of.''
 Under an arrangement that allowed separate votes on the war money and a series of domestic initiatives, the war money was approved 268 to 155, with mainly Republicans backing it. Ms. Pelosi and 150 other Democrats opposed the unrestricted war money. 
 A separate package of domestic initiatives including the new G.I. benefits, a 13-week extension of unemployment aid for millions of Americans and $2.6 billion for Midwestern flood relief was approved 416 to 12. 
 The overall measure included $186.5 billion in spending along with the estimated $8 billion costs of the unemployment benefits and almost $63 billion for the college aid for veterans over the next decade. 
 Frustrated in their efforts to win a troop pullout, Democrats pushed the plan to grant military personnel new rewards once they leave the service, advocating a substantial expansion of college aid for those who have experienced ''especially arduous'' duty in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Under the program, those who serve at least three years on active duty will qualify for educational assistance equivalent to tuition and fees at a leading public university in their state along with housing assistance, money for books, school supplies and tutorial assistance. 
 At the request of the administration, which initially opposed the veterans' plan, the bill would also allow those who serve longer in the military to transfer unused education aid to immediate family members: a provision that added about $10 billion to the estimated costs. 
 ''This legislation will build upon the G.I. Bill's historic legacy of ensuring brighter futures for service members and their families,'' the White House said in a statement. ''We urge both the House and Senate to immediately pass this bipartisan agreement.''
 The deal, fashioned quickly Wednesday by House leaders with White House support, must still be approved by the Senate, which will consider it next week. Senators in both parties said initial indications were that most of their colleagues were prepared to back it even though some spending initiatives they favored had been dropped.
 The bill includes $5.8 billion for levee construction in Louisiana, $210 million to cover additional costs for the 2010 census, $400 million for science programs and about $10 billion for foreign aid programs. The costs, coming at the time of a mounting federal deficit, drew objections from fiscal conservatives in both parties, particularly since the veterans' program was not paid for.
 In allocating enough money to continue the war into the summer of 2009, Republicans and Democrats showed they were eager to dispose of the politically charged issue before the November elections. 
 The money will also give the next president time to settle into office before being confronted with the financing issue.
 But some Democrats were clearly disappointed that they had come up short in repeated efforts to force a troop withdrawal. ''For me this is one compromise too many, one cave-in too many,'' said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts.
 Other Democrats feared a backlash from voters who supported Democrats in 2006 in hopes of ending the war. ''I am concerned that some people out there might be angry,'' said Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of New York.
 Ms. Pelosi said House Democrats had done what they could. She blamed Senate Republicans for thwarting the anti-war push, saying that most Republicans stood solidly with Mr. Bush and denied Democrats the 60 votes needed to overcome filibusters.
 ''The 60-vote requirement to bring up legislation in the Senate has prolonged this war,'' said Ms. Pelosi, who called the result a tragedy.
 Republicans said that improving conditions in Iraq validated their decision to back the president in continuing the war. ''Unilateral defeat, unilateral surrender, which is what the Democrats have wanted, will leave us with an unstable Iraq, a place where Al Qaeda would have had free access and a base of operations,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader. 
 He and fellow Republicans came to the negotiating table in response to growing unease in the party ranks over being seen as blocking added jobless aid when economic anxiety is running high back home. Dozens of Republicans joined House Democrats last week in backing the unemployment money in a separate bill and the veterans' plan had broad support as well.
 While conceding the inability to set a withdrawal date, Democrats said they had won significant concessions in the bill, noting that Mr. Bush had not only initially opposed the veterans' education plan, but also faulted the extension of unemployment benefits and vowed to oppose additional domestic spending. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi said that Democrats had done all they could on legislation to force the withdrawal of troops from Iraq.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); VETERANS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (66%); TERRORISM (63%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



513 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Backing Off Free Passes At M.T.A.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
David S. Mack, a vice chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, backed off on Thursday from statements he had made defending the use of unlimited free travel passes for the authority's board members and said he would now vote to curtail the perk. 
 Mr. Mack's reversal came just hours after Gov. David A. Paterson issued a scorching statement saying that continuing the free travel privilege at a time of economic difficulty would show ''an utter contempt for average New Yorkers.'' 
 Mr. Mack, a wealthy real estate executive from Long Island, prompted a storm of controversy on Wednesday when he told reporters that if the free travel passes he received as a transportation authority board member were taken away, he might not ride the Long Island Rail Road any more. 
 ''Why should I ride and inconvenience myself when I can ride in a car?'' he said at the time, speaking after leading a meeting of a board committee that oversees the railroad. 
 He also said on Wednesday that complaints made by average people about the authority's services were ignored, while board members got quick action if they complain about poor service.
 On Thursday he changed course.
 ''I regret that my comments yesterday did not reflect my commitment to the M.T.A. and the work it does to provide the best public transportation system in the United States,'' he said, in a written statement. 
 He also said that he would vote at a board meeting next Wednesday to change the authority's policy on free travel, so that board members could use free E-ZPass tags or special passes for rail and bus travel only while on official business.
 Mr. Mack's defection appeared to put an end to a revolt that was brewing among board members on the issue and seemed to make the policy change all but certain to gain approval. 
 The issue over the free E-ZPasses began last month when Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo charged that giving free passes for life to board members violated a law that says they must serve without compensation. 
 The board initially vowed to fight Mr. Cuomo, but its chairman, H. Dale Hemmerdinger, quickly reversed that decision and agreed to change the policy to meet Mr. Cuomo's objections. 
 But several board members were unhappy with that outcome and quietly spoke of voting against the change when it came before the board at its meeting next Wednesday. 
 The rift remained largely concealed until Mr. Mack spoke up on Wednesday. 
 His comments caused an uproar partly because they were seen as insensitive to riders and drivers, who received a fare and toll increase in March and may face further increases because of a looming financial crunch at the authority. 
 ''At a time when millions of state residents are feeling the pinch of an economy in turmoil and struggling to support their families, such a decision would demonstrate an utter contempt for average New Yorkers,'' Mr. Paterson said in his statement on Thursday. 
 ''If M.T.A. board members truly want to better understand the system they oversee, they should pay the same tolls and fares as everyone else, and be part of the public transportation system that millions of New Yorkers depend on every day.''
 Mr. Cuomo also weighed in on Thursday, before Mr. Mack announced his change of heart. The attorney general threatened to take legal action against board members to collect the tolls they had avoided paying by using the free E-ZPasses. 
 ''I believe the practice is illegal, and what I'm saying to them is, 'If you don't stop it I, will,' '' Mr. Cuomo said at a sidewalk news conference held on lower Broadway.
 ''To say you'd only use the facilities if they're free is outrageous,'' he said. ''You're there to represent the users of the system. You're not there for the perks, you're not there for the free E-ZPass.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%); ANDREW CUOMO (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



514 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Driller Instinct

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Blaming environmentalists for high energy prices, never mind the evidence, has been a hallmark of the Bush administration. 
 Thus, in 2001 Dick Cheney attributed the California electricity crisis to environmental regulations that, he claimed, were blocking power-plant construction. He completely missed the real story, which was that energy companies -- probably some of the same companies that participated in his secret task force, which was supposed to be drawing up a national energy strategy -- were driving up prices by deliberately withholding electricity from the market.
 And the administration has spent the last eight years trying to convince Congress that the key to America's energy security is opening up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling -- even though estimates from the Energy Information Administration suggest that drilling in the refuge would make very little difference to the energy outlook, and the oil companies themselves aren't especially interested in punching holes in the tundra. 
 But it still comes as a surprise and a disappointment to see John McCain joining that unfortunate tradition.
 I've never taken Mr. McCain's media reputation as a maverick seriously, because on most issues, he's a thoroughly conventional conservative. On energy policy, however, he has in the past seemed to show some independence. Most notably, he voted against the really terrible, special-interest-driven 2005 energy bill, which was backed by the Bush administration -- and by Barack Obama.
 But that was then.
 In his Monday speech on energy, Mr. McCain tried to touch all the bases. He talked about conservation. He denounced the evils of speculation: ''While a few reckless speculators are counting their paper profits, most Americans are coming up on the short end.'' A weird aspect of the current energy debate, incidentally, is the fact that many of the same market-worshipping conservatives who first denied that there was a dot-com bubble, then denied that there was a housing bubble, are utterly convinced that nasty speculators are responsible for high oil prices.
 The item that made news, however, was Mr. McCain's call for more offshore drilling. On Tuesday, he made this more explicit, calling for exploration and development of the currently protected outer continental shelf. This was a reversal of his previous position, and it went a long way toward aligning his energy policy with that of the Bush administration.
 That's not a good thing.
 As many reports have noted, the McCain/Bush policy on offshore drilling doesn't make sense as a response to $4-a-gallon gas: the White House's own Energy Information Administration says that exploiting the outer shelf wouldn't yield noticeable amounts of oil until the 2020s, and even at peak production its impact on oil prices would be ''insignificant.''
 But what I haven't seen emphasized is the broader picture: Mr. McCain has now aligned himself with an administration that, even aside from its blame-the-environmental-movement tendencies, has established an extensive track record as the gang that couldn't think straight about energy policy. 
 Remember, they didn't just insist that the Iraqis would welcome us as liberators; on the eve of the Iraq war, administration officials were also adamant that regime change in Iraq would add millions of barrels a day to the world oil supply, driving oil prices way down. (In fact, Iraq's oil output took five years just to recover to preinvasion levels.)
 So why would Mr. McCain associate himself with these characters? The answer, presumably, is that it's a cynical political calculation. 
 I'm reasonably sure that Mr. McCain's advisers realize that offshore drilling would do nothing for current gas prices. But they may believe that the public can be conned. A Rasmussen poll taken before Mr. McCain's announcement suggests that the public favors expanded offshore drilling, and believes (wrongly) that this would lower gasoline prices. 
 And Mr. McCain may also hope to shore up his still fragile relations with the Republican base. As anyone who has read what's in his inbox after publishing an article on oil prices can testify, there are many people on the right who believe that all our energy problems have been caused by sanctimonious tree-huggers. Mr. McCain has just thrown that constituency some red meat. 
 But I very much doubt that Mr. McCain's gambit will work. In fact, it's almost certainly self-destructive.
 To have a chance in November, Mr. McCain has to convince voters that he isn't just Bush, continued. Energy policy is one of the areas where he could best have made that case. 
 Instead, he has ceded the high ground on energy to Mr. Obama, and linked himself firmly to the most unpopular president on record. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); DICK CHENEY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



515 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Specter Says Patriots Are Not in Clear

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
Senator Arlen Specter clarified Thursday that his involvement in the New England Patriots' videotaping controversy was not over. Neither is his battle with the N.F.L.
 Specter, a Republican from Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview that his comments to the editorial board of The Philadelphia Daily News earlier this week ''didn't really come out with the proper flavor.'' 
 ''My view on the overall situation is that we may well see the other shoe drop somewhere,'' Specter said. ''We went about as far as we could go, given the public attitude today about the economy and gas prices and Iraq. We're always very careful about initiating a Congressional investigation. 
 ''But that isn't to say, by any means, it's over.'' 
 An N.F.L. spokesman declined to comment. Specter said he had not talked to Commissioner Roger Goodell recently, but they now hold similar positions on the videotaping controversy that came to light last September. 
 They have promised to revisit the controversy and the Patriots should new information become available. They differ on the likelihood of new information coming out.
 The N.F.L. also added provisions this off-season to strengthen enforcement of rules relating to the integrity of the game, along with eliminating most defensive signals by installing defense communications systems -- similar to what the quarterback uses -- next season.
 Specter cited other sports mired in integrity issues, including horse racing, tennis, professional basketball and Major League Baseball.
 Specter said that he had no immediate plans to jump into any of those issues, but added that Congress had ''talked about a sports commission from time to time.''
 ''It has to be gauged very carefully in terms of public sentiment,'' Specter said. ''Spygate really touched a nerve, beyond any question. But frankly, I'm little surprised more people weren't concerned.''
 Specter said the controversy had renewed his interest in stadium financing, a subject about which he first introduced legislation in 1982. 
 In the statement on the Patriots that Specter introduced into the Congressional record recently, he attached two charts -- one on the N.F.L., one on baseball, detailing public contributions toward new stadiums. According to those figures, the public contributed $3.46 billion to 17 N.F.L. stadiums built since 1992. Baseball's figure stood at $3.01 billion on 15 stadiums built from 1990 to 2003.
 ''As a matter of basic fairness,'' Specter wrote, ''the owners should have been paying for their own stadium construction without relying on the public funds desperately needed for so many other purposes.''
 As for the Patriots controversy, Specter remained critical of the league's investigation. 
 ''In many quarters, there is a bad taste left for what Goodell and the N.F.L. did,'' he said. ''I say that because there are misrepresentations about the scope of it. They're trying to minimize the impact, which is documented. There's a certain residual unhappiness about it. The pot is boiling.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BASEBALL (87%); INTERVIEWS (79%); SPORTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (71%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (70%); ATHLETES (69%); BASKETBALL (65%); TENNIS (64%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (55%); HORSE RACING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



516 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CANADIAN CONNECTION; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: McCain Heads to Ottawa

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
Like many people outside the United States, Canadians have taken an unusually keen interest in this year's presidential election. A memorandum was leaked suggesting that Senator Barack Obama's campaign had privately assured Canadian diplomats not to regard his call to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement too seriously, for example, and became the subject of intense political debate in Parliament in March. 
 So there is considerable anticipation in Canada's capital as the presidential campaign prepares to move briefly onto foreign soil on Friday. A speech by Senator John McCain at a faux-chateau-style hotel that is an Ottawa landmark is believed to be the first appearance of an American presidential candidate in Canada in an election year.
 Nicolee Tattersall, a spokeswoman for the Economic Club of Canada, said her group was approached by the McCain campaign to be the host for the event. 
 While Mr. Obama is the first choice of Canadians in polls, that has done little to diminish interest in Mr. McCain's speech. Within half an hour, the economic club sold all the tickets for the event for tables that seat 10, at prices from 2,000 Canadian dollars to 5,000 Canadian dollars (about the same in United States currency).
 There is an extensive waiting list for tickets. But Ms. Tattersall said it was unlikely that anyone would be called from it. ''A lot of people are going to be upset,'' she said.
 It is anticipated that Mr. McCain will use the speech to again endorse the North American Free Trade Agreement. As for Mr. Obama, Ms. Tattersall said the club would be pleased if he also invited himself for a visit. ''That would be very exciting,'' she said. IAN AUSTEN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



517 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Comics Convention Beckons Hollywood

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
For those planning to attend Comic-Con International, the giant comic-book and fantasy convention scheduled to begin on July 24 in San Diego, the event's organizers have published some helpful hints. No. 21: ''Please don't smell bad.''
 The Cannes Film Festival this is not.
 Rumbling into its 39th year, this loose-jointed, four-day fan gathering has become the single most important promotional stop on Hollywood's annual circuit of festivals, awards shows and star-studded selling opportunities. But that doesn't make it easy to love, particularly for the studios, stars and writers and directors compelled to come.
 The Con, as devotees like to call it, is disconcertingly large. Last year a capacity crowd of about 125,000 crammed into the San Diego Convention Center, while a ticketless 25,000 or so were left sweating in the hot sun. (The Sundance film festival, by contrast, draws 45,000, spread over 10 days.) 
 It is weird. The convention officially requires that model weapons remain holstered or sheathed.
 And it is decidedly low-rent. No. 33 on the official tip sheet lists the grocery chain Ralph's Market as an alternative to dining out. The Bio International Convention in San Diego, a gathering of the biotechnology industry, with one-sixth as many attendees, produces about double Comic-Con's $41.5 million in economic impact on the city.
 But for a Hollywood in which ''Iron Man'' is king -- with more than $300 million at the domestic box office, it is this year's top superhero movie and may sell more tickets than last year's five best-picture Oscar nominees combined -- a visit to Comic-Con has become a command performance. 
 Or it is for those who can handle the convention's crowds and notoriously difficult logistics.
 ''Do whatever you can to get us a helicopter!'' pleaded Pam Brady, a screenwriter who is dropping in this year to promote ''Hamlet 2,'' a comedy from Focus Features. Ms. Brady said Paramount Pictures actually got her in and out by chopper once, when she went to the Con with ''Team America: World Police.''
 Interstate 5 from Los Angeles isn't always an option. On Comic-Con days, it can be bumper-to-bumper all the way. ''We kind of caravan down, with friends calling ahead for traffic reports,'' said Mark Evanier, a writer and convention regular who expects to lead no fewer than 16 of its panels this year.
 Perhaps making a virtue of necessity, a Fox-Walden contingent last week announced plans to make the trip, along with two dozen journalists, on a private train decorated with props and costumes from its fantasy film ''City of Ember.'' (They may have better luck than a group of animation writers from the Writers Guild of America West, who last year took Amtrak and showed up late for its own panel.)
 Summit Entertainment, meanwhile, will use Los Angeles as a jumping-off point for cars and drivers transporting 20 stars and filmmakers from four coming movies: ''Twilight,''''Sex Drive,''''Knowing'' and ''Push.'' ''We'll try to make the move in and out in one day,'' said Robert G. Friedman, Summit's chief executive. Still, his company is holding on to some hotel rooms -- most were booked months ago -- just in case something goes awry.
 Something usually does. Last year the producer Joel Silver, in rust-toned pants and a mojito-colored jacket, was left fidgeting on the dais in front of 6,500 fans while waiting for a tardy Kate Beckinsale to do her bit to hype the coming ''Whiteout.'' Ms. Beckinsale said she was stuck at a railroad crossing. Once, Mr. Evanier recalled, Jean-Claude Van Damme left a roomful of fans sitting while he went out to eat. But most of the Hollywood contingent, by now, has learned better.
 ''These people need Comic-Con more than Comic-Con needs them,'' said Mr. Evanier, who has been attending since the convention got its start, as the Golden State Comic Book Convention, at the U. S. Grant Hotel in 1970.
 It's not merely the big-budget superhero movies that come to woo the mostly male crowd. The surprise success last year of ''300,'' a star-free and tremendously stylized, computer-assisted telling of the Spartans' stand against the Persians at Thermopylae, was helped along by an appearance in 2006 by the movie's director, Zack Snyder. 
 But while movie and television presentations can seem to overwhelm the convention, according to Comic-Con officials they still account for only about 22 percent of its scheduled programming, most of which revolves around the intricacies of creating or collecting comics and graphic novels.
 David Glanzer, the convention's director of marketing and public relations, discounted stories that some Hollywood agents and development executives had hired fanboys as guides to Comic-Con's coolest backwaters. ''Those are probably more urban legend than not,'' he said.
 Still, Mr. Glanzer said, it has taken time for film promoters to learn the convention's cardinal unwritten rule: ''You have to speak to the fans, and not just market to them.''
 (Rumors to the contrary notwithstanding, Mr. Glanzer said the convention would remain in San Diego at least until its current contract ends in 2012, and perhaps longer, if sufficient space can be found. ''We want to stay,'' he said.)
 This year, in fact, Lionsgate, Hollywood's largest independent studio, will try to speak with clarity by sponsoring one of the convention's hallmark events, the annual Will Eisner Comic Industry Awards. 
 Lionsgate is seeking good will for its expected release this Christmas of ''Will Eisner's The Spirit,'' a fantasy thriller based on a revered series of comic books about a mysterious urban crime fighter. The film is directed by Frank Miller, who is himself famous in the comics world for series like ''Sin City'' and the graphic novel ''300.''
 The project and one of its stars, Samuel L. Jackson, already appear on the cover of the spring issue of Comic-Con's official magazine. That is the one with all the tips, including No. 20: ''Avoid the 'Con crud.' ''
 The ''crud,'' it explained, is a flulike disease that can afflict those who get a little too intimate at the convention.
 Not that a few germs would daunt Hollywood's intrepid. ''Despite the challenges, this is a value proposition like no other,'' explained Paul Pflug, co-owner of the publicity firm Principal Communications.
 ''It's the brick-and-mortar version of viral marketing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (74%); HELICOPTERS (61%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



518 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: A Mix of Sand, Gravel and Glue That Drives the City Ever Higher

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
It is the sinew of the city's muscular skyline, without which there would be far fewer skyscrapers, streets and museums.
 It is concrete, and with builders cranking out condominiums, office towers, baseball stadiums and water and rail tunnels during the city's construction boom, demand for it has been healthy for several years running.
 But unlike other goods and materials that can be imported from as far away as China, concrete is largely a local product. While some floor slabs and walls are brought in from factories outside New York, much of the concrete used in buildings in the city is mixed and placed here. 
 In many other parts of the country, concrete production conglomerates dominate the landscape, but in New York City the backbone of the industry is owner-operated businesses, sometimes run by families that span three generations.
 The 40 or so producers sprinkled around the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens have added trucks and other equipment in recent years to keep up with orders for concrete to build not just high-rise office towers and apartments, but also huge public works projects like the buildings at the World Trade Center and the Second Avenue subway. 
 About a dozen of those firms produce about three-quarters of the concrete used in the city.
 A typical large producer operates 40 to 50 trucks, though many companies have just a dozen trucks and specialize in smaller jobs, according to Carmine Valente, the president of the Association of New York City Concrete Producers. New York, he said, is one of the few cities in which owner-operators still predominate, partly because of strong unions and partly because when building slackens, small companies can adapt more quickly.
 ''In the rest of the country, a small company is 200 trucks,'' Mr. Valente said.
 In decades past, organized crime had a stranglehold on the companies that dominated the market for concrete in high-rise construction. A fee was exacted for every yard of concrete produced, a big reason the average price was far higher in New York City than in its suburbs and other large cities in the Northeast.
 In 1986, the city subsidized a private concrete plant on the West Side of Manhattan in the hope of breaking the mob's grip on the industry. The company eventually went bankrupt, but that same year, federal authorities began an offensive that over the course of a decade wrested control from the mob in a number of industries.
 Increased demand and rising fuel prices have driven up the cost of concrete by about 10 percent a year.
 ''We've gone through such a great resurgence in building,'' said William J. Lyons, who runs the New York Concrete Industry Board. ''There's quite a bit of demand, and because of that producers have added more capacity.''
 Demand for concrete from producers able to deliver to Lower Manhattan roughly doubled from 2005 to 2007 and is expected to jump again next year by about 40 percent, according to the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center. A chunk of the fresh demand will come from the buildings at the World Trade Center site and an array of public projects like the city's third water supply tunnel, the Long Island Rail Road tunnel to the East Side of Manhattan and the Second Avenue subway.
 But there are signs that demand may cool because of an uncertain economic outlook. Some producers have seen orders dip as much as 20 percent compared with last year, forcing them to idle some of their recently bought concrete trucks, which cost about $170,000 each new.
 Getting the concrete to building sites is no easy task. Concrete -- a stew of cement, sand, gravel, water and other materials -- must be placed within 90 minutes of being mixed. Since few construction sites, particularly in Manhattan, are large enough to accommodate a mixing operation, most concrete is produced at plants in other boroughs.
 Concrete truck drivers race the clock while navigating the city's congested streets to get their loads to a site. Their plight was a big reason traffic rules were changed a few years ago to allow trucks to carry heavier loads on the city's bridges and tunnels, industry officials said.
 Typically, concrete trucks leave their plants before the sun rises. As early as 7 a.m., concrete is hoisted to the proper floor, where it is placed in wooden forms. Masons smooth it out. Then carpenters and engineers start work on the next level.
 A day later, reinforcement bars, electrical conduits and plumbing pipes that will be encased in concrete are installed on that next level, and the forms are made ready for the fresh batch of concrete that is to arrive the next morning.
 Thanks to this two-day cycle, developed more than half a century ago, a new concrete floor can be placed every other day, about twice as fast as is done in the rest of the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (89%); BASEBALL (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



519 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Banks Trim Credit Lines, And It Hurts

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The easy money that led Americans to depend on credit cards to pay their bills is starting to dry up.
 After fostering the explosive growth of consumer debt in recent years, financial companies are reducing the credit limits on cards held by millions of Americans, often without warning. 
 Banks that issue cards like Visa and MasterCard, as well as the American Express Company, are cutting the limits for customers who have run up big debts, live in areas that have been hit hard by the housing crisis or work for themselves in troubled industries.
 The reductions come as consumers, squeezed by a slack economy, a weak housing market and rising unemployment, are falling behind on monthly credit card payments in growing numbers. 
 Credit card lenders are also culling their accounts ahead of new rules that are intended to benefit consumers but could limit the profits on customers deemed bigger risks. 
 Many Americans have come to rely on credit cards to cover everyday expenses like groceries, gasoline and medical bills, in addition to big-ticket items and luxuries. While consumer spending, the nation's economic engine, has been surprisingly resilient of late, a more sweeping reduction in credit card limits could pose serious challenges for hard-pressed consumers and, in turn, the broader economy.
 Many are already feeling pinched. Pamela Pfitzer, a family therapist with a stable six-figure income, was stunned when she went to a garden center near her home outside Sacramento in early April and tried to buy about $30 worth of flowers with her American Express card. Her transaction was denied, she says, even though she insists she had rarely missed a payment and had just made one for $1,000.
 After inadvertently hitting her credit limit a few months ago and then falling behind on a mortgage payment, Ms. Pfitzer said her limit was lowered by American Express to $900 from $2,300. The flowers pushed her over the new cap.
 Then last month it happened again, she says, when she tried to buy office furniture with her Wells Fargo Visa card. Although she had just made a payment of about $700, Ms. Pfitzer found out that her credit limit had been lowered to $2,000 from $2,800.
 ''In all the years I have had credit cards, I have never had this happen before,'' Ms. Pfitzer said. ''Now it has happened twice in the last few months.''
 Banks and mortgage companies are required by law to notify customers within three days of changing the limits on a home equity line of credit, and many have been aggressively lowering them. But credit card lenders have 30 days to notify their customers, and often do so only after taking action. 
 Such moves can cause a consumer's credit score to drop, forcing the person to pay higher interest rates and making it harder to obtain new loans.
 Even so, disclaimers in the fine print of credit card applications typically stipulate that the issuer can cancel or alter credit limits at any time, regardless of a customer's payment or credit history.
 Washington Mutual cut back the total credit lines available to its cardholders by nearly 10 percent in the first quarter of the year, according to an analysis of bank regulatory data. HSBC Holdings, Target and Wells Fargo each trimmed their credit card lines by about 3 percent.
 Among those four lenders, that amounts to a reduction of about $15 billion in three months. Over all, the amount of available credit for the industry appears to be about flat, with the three biggest issuers -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup -- slightly increasing their overall credit lines. But even they are trying to rein in risky individual accounts. 
 Big banks face intense pressure on their balance sheets as they bring on billions of dollars worth of complex mortgage-related investments and other loans they are struggling to sell. Meanwhile, they are bracing for a surge in credit card losses as the job market and economy falter.
 Consumers are reaching deeper into their pockets to pay for groceries and gas. Last year, as many as half of all those who took out home equity loans used the money to help pay down their credit card debt, according to J. D. Power research. But home equity is no longer an easy source of financing. Month after month, cardholders keep falling behind on their bills.
 ''This downturn is the perfect storm where the consumer is getting squeezed from all levels,'' said Michael Taiano, a credit card industry analyst at Sandler O'Neill. He projects that credit card loss rates for lenders, now around 5.7 percent, could go as high as 10 percent in next 18 months. That would be higher than the peak levels reached after the 2001 technology bust.
 Since borrowers typically run up their balances before they stop paying, issuers have started cutting lines of credit. Often, lenders will lower customers' credit limits as they pay down their debt -- a technique known in the industry as ''chasing the balance.'' This way, they are on the hook for less money if borrowers default. 
 ''They are trying to cut their risk exposure,'' said Bill Ryan, an analyst at Portales Partners. ''The consumer that used to use his house as an A.T.M. is now starting to use their credit card as an A.T.M.'' 
 American Express is reducing credit lines for customers holding subprime mortgages and small-business customers in industries tied to the real estate market. And Chase Card Services, the consumer arm of JPMorgan, is taking similar action on distressed borrowers, especially in places like California, Arizona and Florida, where home prices have declined sharply. 
 Washington Mutual, HSBC, Target and Wells Fargo all acknowledged they were pulling in lines of credit as part of broader strategy of reducing risk. 
 None of those lenders, as a matter of policy, would comment on individual customer accounts. 
 Cardholders in places like Orange County in California, Atlanta and Phoenix have noticed their credit lines shriveling up. 
 John D. Craig Jr., a college administrator who lives near Niagara Falls, N.Y., said he had regularly been paying own his balance on a rarely used card when Chase told him it was reducing his credit limit to $4,000 from $20,000. The news took him by surprise. 
 ''For two or three years, it was, 'We are going to give you more credit, more credit more credit,' '' he said. ''Now, in the last two or three months, it has been the exact opposite.''
 Those who work in real estate-related fields say they are being pinched by the credit card lenders at a time when money is tight. In Seattle, Phillip Rodocker, a sales associate for a large residential real estate firm, said that the credit limit on his Citi Platinum Select Visa card had been reduced in April to $4,950 from $6,720 even though he says he never missed a payment and had no recent credit blemishes. A Citi spokesman, Samuel Wang, said Mr. Rodocker had made six late payments within the last year.
 Leslie Sherman, the owner of Realty Executives in Las Vegas, said American Express had reduced the credit limits on several personal and business cards virtually at the same time. 
 ''It has definitely made me spend less,'' she said. But Ms. Sherman said that it had been a blow to her ego, too. 
 ''It made me feel like I wasn't responsible,'' she said. ''I know when to put my reins on and when not to. I didn't appreciate someone thanking me for always paying my bills on time and being a good customer by dinging my credit.'' 
 Meredith Whitney, an Oppenheimer banking analyst, said the impact of the recent regulatory proposals on lender profits could be so severe that she expected the industry to pull back $2 trillion in outstanding credit lines by 2010. That would be a 45 percent reduction in credit currently available to consumers. Risky borrowers would be squeezed the most.
 Customers with stronger credit histories have probably noticed few changes. But card issuers are also becoming pickier about whom they approve. 
 Lenders are sending fewer offers in the mail. And borrowers already in debt, once courted by card companies, are being shunned. 
 Zero-balance teaser rate offers have fallen by about 15 percent over the last year, according to Mintel Comperemedia, a marketing research company.

GRAPHIC: CHART: LESS MONEY TO BORROW: Many of the country's largest credit card issuers have slowed or reversed the growth of their consumer credit lines. (Source: Bank regulatory filings) (pg. C4)
 Chart showing banks cutting back on credit lines for millions of Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (92%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%); OFFICE FURNITURE (50%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (85%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (85%); AXP (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



520 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Limelight to Shine on Saudis at Energy Forum as Oil Prices Continue to Soar

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and JAD MOUAWAD. 
Robert F. Worth reported from Jidda, and Jad Mouawad from New York.

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
The rulers of this conservative desert kingdom have always avoided the limelight. 
 But by hosting a global energy forum here on Sunday during the worst oil crisis in decades, the Saudis are taking a risky step. The meeting will draw new attention to the Saudis' role in a boom that has pushed oil prices close to $140 a barrel and caused protests from Britain to Bangladesh. 
 If the Saudis do not announce strong steps at the meeting to increase production, they could draw new wrath from the world's major oil consumers -- conveniently gathered under one roof -- who already tend to see Saudi Arabia and its OPEC allies as the villains pushing up prices and profits. 
 If they do increase production, the Saudis run the risk that it will not be enough to stop the upward price spiral. That could undermine their vaunted reputation as the one country with the power to calm the volatile oil market, and might in turn push prices even higher. 
 The meeting has provoked dissent within OPEC. Venezuela, angry at the prospect of a unilateral Saudi decision to increase oil production, initially threatened to shun the meeting, and Iran has criticized the Saudis for being too hasty.
 But for the Saudis, the meeting is a crucial opportunity both to calm the market's volatility and to get their point of view across. They say they have been unfairly blamed for the crisis, which has seen the price of oil rise 40 percent since the start of the year. 
 ''There has been a great deal of political propaganda about this in the West,'' said Ihsan Ali Bu Hulaiga, an economic analyst. ''Maybe this conference will be able to shed light on the facts.'' 
 Saudi officials acknowledge that fast growth in China and India has stimulated demand and contributed to the oil price spike. But they say the chief causes of the price increase are speculation in oil futures markets and a shortage of capacity to refine oil into gasoline in rich countries. For that reason, there is widespread anger that oil producers here are being blamed for high prices. Last week some members of the Kuwaiti Parliament said pumping more oil would be harmful to their country's economic prospects, and suggested that Kuwait should instead be conserving its oil. The fact that the United States has been reluctant to drill for oil in some of its own territories exacerbates the resentment. 
 ''People keep asking: is the U.S. trying to dry up our reserves and keep theirs for the future?'' said Khaled al-Dakhil, a professor of political sociology at King Saud University. 
 The resentment may seem surprising in light of the vast profits Saudi Arabia and other gulf nations have reaped from the oil boom. But many Saudis have seen few tangible benefits. Inflation, caused partly by higher oil prices, has pushed up food prices drastically, cutting into the income of poor and middle-class Saudis. 
 And much of the oil profits have been spent on ambitious long-term government efforts, including new industrial cities and a vast new university. Many Saudis felt that the wealth created here by the oil shocks of the 1970s was largely wasted, and the Saudi government has chosen a different approach this time, building an economy that can outlast its oil. 
 ''During the first oil boom, people squandered the money, but now we're investing in smarter ways,'' said Amr Khashoggi, a prominent businessman here. ''We've learned our lesson.'' 
 At the same time, Saudi officials recognize that the fast-rising price of oil -- for all the vast profits it has brought them in the past year -- also represents a significant risk. If prices continue to rise, they could prompt an economic downturn or a faster shift toward alternative energy sources that could sharply reduce demand, causing oil profits to collapse. 
 The Saudi strategy also risks breaking a broad consensus that has served OPEC well since the 1998 oil crisis, when prices collapsed. Since then, countries like Iran, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia set aside their political differences to work together and regain clout in the market. The result has been a 13-fold increase in oil prices since the lows of the 1990s.
 Now, even as they head into the meeting, OPEC producers, who have been left in the dark about Saudi intentions, are split about the need for increased supplies. The current president of OPEC, Chakib Khelil, who is also Algeria's oil minister, said that any request to raise output was ''illogical.'' 
 He said that gains in oil had been driven by ''speculation and geopolitical tension,'' according to Algerie Presse Service.
 Saudi Arabia already increased its production by 300,000 barrels a day, or 3 percent, to 9.45 million barrels a day last month after President Bush visited the kingdom. But that did little to slow down the rise in prices. 
 Discussions about any new increase in production could also backfire, reminding everyone how little spare capacity is actually available worldwide. Members of the oil cartel hold less than two million barrels a day of unused production capacity, the bulk of which lies in Saudi Arabia. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Saudi man bought gas on Thursday in Riyadh. The Saudis will host an energy forum this weekend in Jidda. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); FUTURES (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SOCIOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



521 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Graduates Find Jobs, and the End of Summers Off

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
It is a bittersweet time for freshly sprung college graduates, at least those lucky enough to have landed jobs. 
 Summer is here, with its sunny days and sultry nights, and for many young people working their first real jobs, it will be a summer reconfigured. 
 Those who are gainfully employed may be basking in the glow of finding work in a tough market, but their joy is often tempered by a nostalgia of sorts. 
 They are, after all, entering the first summer of the rest of their lives: the deeply ingrained cycle of school followed by summers ''off'' -- whether that meant camp or a short-term job or an internship -- is over. There is no college to return to after Labor Day, and no real end in sight. Most will be fortunate to get a week off before the warm weather ends. 
 ''You always knew that after summer, you go back to classes. And after classes, you have a summer,'' said Katie Dinterman, 23, who graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill last December and who now works at a public relations firm in Midtown Manhattan. ''It's very crazy to think that you don't have an end point,'' she said. ''It definitely stresses me out.'' 
 Nearly 20,500 degree holders between the ages of 22 and 28 streamed into New York City in 2006, according to an analysis by the sociology department at Queens College, though it is unclear how many are flocking to the city this year.
 Ms. Dinterman said that she was thrilled to have landed work, and in New York City to boot. She started working in January, her graduation date giving her a jump on the collegiate hordes that flooded the job market at spring's end. 
 Still, Ms. Dinterman said she felt a little wistful for the summers when she was an intern, with fewer responsibilities and weekends and evenings that were invariably work free. She lives on the Upper East Side and is planning weekend trips ''off the island,'' because, like many people in the working world, she now has two weeks of vacation a year. 
 ''I'm not near a window,'' Ms. Dinterman said of her office space, ''So I never really know what it's like outside.''
 Amanda Zalka, 22, is starting to feel a disconnection between her life and the lives of her friends. Many of them are planning long summer holidays, because they are beginning their jobs later in the summer or are still looking for work. 
 Ms. Zalka graduated from Temple University in Philadelphia in February, and started working as an assistant account executive for an advertising agency in SoHo in March. To ease the transition to working straight through the summer, she is planning to go to ''some kind of beach'' every weekend, and spent a recent Sunday at Water Taxi Beach, a tiny faux beach in Queens that is separated from the East River by a chain-link fence. 
 ''When you're in college, you have three and a half months of vacation,'' said Ms. Zalka, who grew up in Budapest. ''Before I did internships, I literally would go home and relax for three and a half months, and drive my mother crazy.''
 Still, Ms. Zalka is firmly in the honeymoon phase after gaining what she describes as an ideal job. Had she not found work, she said, her summer would have been overtaken by the stress of looking for one.
 ''Everything is new and exciting, and it's nice to be part of a team,'' she said. ''At the same time, you start to think, 'Am I going to be able to do that for 50 years, every day, while having one week of vacation somewhere?' This has definitely crossed my mind, but I'm not worrying about it yet.''
 Some recent graduates are nervous about starting full-time work. 
 Gia Branciforte, 21, who graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in May, is working a summer job at a nonprofit agency in Chapel Hill. She will move back to her native Queens in August to work full time at a nonprofit agency, and already feels trepidation at the prospect of vastly fewer vacation days. ''I have such wanderlust,'' she said. ''That's the part that makes me nostalgic, not being able to just get up and go.'' 
 Liz Clain, 21, who just graduated from Harvard, and will begin work at a health care consulting firm in Boston in August, feels a mild uneasiness, too. ''I have the upcoming two months of freedom before the rest of my life,'' she said. She is also thinking about going to medical school one day. ''And that kind of makes it easier,'' she said, ''going into it knowing that I do have an end in sight.''
 Of course, many recent graduates are content just to have found a job and to be able to start paying off loans. 
 ''This is my second summer being out of college; I kind of had extra time to enjoy myself,'' said Fabienne Carroll, 23, who recently got hired at Girlie Action, a public relations and marketing firm serving the music industry. ''And yeah, I have loans to pay off. A lot.''
 Kai Johnson, 22, who graduated from Wesleyan University in May, is working at the Greater New York chapter of the National Conference for Community and Justice, a nonprofit, for the summer, and will begin teaching English in France in the fall. 
 ''I'm really excited to move on to the next chapter of my life,'' he said, ''although it's hard to graduate from college and leave that behind.'' 
 Still, his summer job is part time, so he does not feel trapped, he said, at least not yet. ''I'm looking at having a couple of different careers in different areas, with a couple years of commitment,'' he said. ''I'm not looking to having a 30- or 40-year plan.''
 Eavvon O'Neal, who is 23, graduated from West Chester University of Pennsylvania in May 2007, and, to his delight, started work at Pitchfork Media, a music Web site, this past March. ''I couldn't get a job until now,'' he said. ''I was on an extended vacation that we all don't want to call unemployment.''
 His job is a perfect fit, he said, partly because he can still dress like a college student and see a lot of concerts. Indeed, his office, with its haphazardly arranged desks and piles of books and CDs, has a ramshackle air, not unlike a dorm room. 
 Mr. O'Neal had been yearning for a job so long, he said, that the prospect of having few vacation days did not faze him in the least.
 ''I was so looking forward to having a job that I'm not too eager to get away from it just yet,'' he said.
 Asked whether he felt nostalgic for the breezy summers of his past, Mr. O'Neal said that he felt ''kind of pensive'' instead.
 ''This is the threshold from college student to adult,'' he said, ''that you don't really understand until you've experienced the whole thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amanda Zalka on a break from her job at an ad agency. She plans to visit ''some kind of beach'' on the weekends. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1)
 Eavvon O'Neal got a job at Pitchfork Media after a long search. As far as time off, ''I was so looking forward to having a job,'' he said, ''that I'm not too eager to get away from it just yet.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (51%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



522 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: The Irish Voted. The Treaty Lost. That's Democracy.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Muck of the Irish,'' by Roger Cohen (column, The New York Times on the Web, June 19):
 Ireland has indeed benefited greatly from the European Union. But as a full member of the union, Ireland is entitled to judge the Lisbon Treaty on its merits and to reject it if necessary. 
 During the referendum campaign, the political class in Ireland did not propose one positive reason why voters should accept this treaty, repeating only that ''the Lisbon Treaty is essential.'' 
 As for using the referendum to kick ''unresponsive politicians,'' it is reasonable to do this when leading politicians were recommending a treaty that they admitted they had not read completely themselves. 
 If it is unconscionable for the Irish to exercise their sovereign legal and political rights, then Mr. Cohen's claim that Europe is ''whole and free'' must ring hollow.
 Joseph Keogh Balbriggan, Ireland, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 An American resident in Ireland for eight years, I, too, voted ''no'' on the Lisbon Treaty because the treaty was the most turgid, opaque, endless and incomprehensible sheaf of bureaucratic gobbledygook I have every attempted to read -- the antithesis of the American Bill of Rights. 
 Does Roger Cohen want the European Union to have reduced representation for smaller states and ramped-up regulatory powers? Why? 
 And why aren't other countries in the European Union allowing their citizens to enjoy a referendum on this turkey that has nothing to do with Turkey? 
 The prime minister of Ireland, Brian Cowen, who supported the treaty, confessed he had not read all of this miserably written document. 
 The Irish voted with proud thoughtfulness and independence of spirit. If an equivalent document had been proffered as the cornerstone of the United States, there would be no United States.
 David Monagan Cork, Ireland, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The failure of the Lisbon Treaty is hardly the fault of the more than 862,000 Irish voters who exercised their democratic right in rejecting the treaty through a popular referendum. 
 European Union leaders are trending down a path where national sovereignty becomes subservient to a hyperstate that has the potential to create laws that run counter to the legal and constitutional traditions of a significant number of member states.
 The ''no'' vote in Ireland should not be any more of a surprise than the rejection of a European constitution by Dutch and French voters in 2005 or the Czech Senate's postponement of a vote on the Lisbon Treaty pending an opinion from the Czech Constitutional Court. 
 Given these trends, I wonder how many European Union member states would ''ratify'' the treaty if they allowed it to be put to a popular referendum.
 Frank Costello Washington, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The Irish are very much in favor of the European Union, but the latest treaty would have taken substantial power away from smaller states like Ireland and concentrated more power in Brussels.
 And while the political leadership of Ireland favored the treaty, many of those leaders admitted they had never read the treaty in full.
 The people of Ireland are not the only ones who are against this treaty. The Irish just happen to be lucky enough to be the only nation in the European Union that allows its people to vote on such matters.
 Until Europe's leaders hear the voice of the people, the mission of true integration and democracy will forever be stalled.
 Guthrie Alberts Woodside, Queens, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As one whose family originated in Ireland's ''beer-soaked backwater,'' let me remind Roger Cohen that this tiny nation twice before refused invitations to join larger unions. 
 First, the Roman Empire. When it fell and Europe descended into darkness, Irish monks rose from the ''muck'' long enough to preserve the continent's heritage in manuscripts of unsurpassed beauty.
 Centuries later, Oliver Cromwell extended his bloody invitation to join the British Empire. Once again, the Celts were ''ungrateful'' enough to demur.
 Ignoring all but the most recent past, Mr. Cohen upbraids the Irish for ''narrow insularity'' in rejecting a treaty that he himself describes as ''impenetrable.'' Perhaps this time Ireland should defer to the judgment of its betters? 
 If Mr. Cohen's response to the Irish reflects the attitude of Europe at large, then let me answer the European Union with a phrase from America's own policy toward my ancestors: ''No Irish need apply.''
 Rick Topper Glenside, Pa., June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a New Yorker living in Ireland, I disagree with Roger Cohen's column criticizing the Irish ''no'' vote on the Lisbon Treaty. He suggests that the vote failed because of fear of ''Polish plumbers,'' Turkish membership in the European Union and a union ''without borders and limits.'' 
 The ''Polish plumbers'' comment is offensive to both Poles and Irish. 
 Mr. Cohen might at least have mentioned that the ''no'' campaign was very well organized and effective, while the government-backed ''yes'' campaign was vague, confusing and overconfident. 
 This vote was as much a referendum on the increasing power of the European Union as it was on the general level of trust the Irish people hold for their politicians.
 Carol Ann Conlon Dublin, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen suggests that Ireland, a ''beer-soaked backwater,'' owes its recent success mainly to participation in the European Union project.
 Ireland owes its success to several factors, among which are its low rate of corporate taxes, well-managed labor relations, an educated work force and, of course, its membership in the European Union.
 Ireland joined the European Economic Community in 1973, 15 years after it began a visionary program for economic expansion that radically altered Ireland's global economic posture and laid the foundation for its recent success.
 The rejection of the Lisbon Treaty was not an example of ''narrow insularity'' nor a demonstration of ''the worst of little-Englandism.'' The reasons the Irish people rejected the treaty do not include some perverse post-colonial neurosis.
 Patrick Mair New York, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen's column did not change my views on the Lisbon Treaty. I am still completely confused. 
 Mr. Cohen offered no convincing argument for why Irish voters should have approved the treaty, but instead attacked their character, portraying the electorate as isolationist ingrates who don't know what's good for them.
 I am British, with Irish roots. I know that Europeans feel conflicted about an empowered European Union, because they see the best and worst of American federalism. 
 When the United States protects minority rights and local laboratories of democracy, Europe envies America. When it tramples the rights of states to innovate freely within their borders, Europe justly recoils. 
 Whenever my faith in the American union recedes, I read the Federalist Papers and marvel at the possibilities for your form of government, and the persuasive power of Alexander Hamilton and James Madison that helped create it. Europeans need a similarly convincing masterpiece to make this leap into the unknown.
 Tom Cowell Brooklyn, June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree with most of what Roger Cohen wrote in his June 19 column. As someone who has traveled to Ireland repeatedly since the 1970s, I have witnessed firsthand what participation in the European Union did for that country. 
 I object, however, to Mr. Cohen's description of Ireland as a former ''beer-soaked backwater.'' Depiction of the Irish as drunks was a racist weapon of the English. His use of these words plays into the worst of anti-Irish stereotypes.
 Stephen Casey Ossining, N.Y., June 19, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Even were I not of Irish heritage, I would be deeply offended by Roger Cohen's characterization of the Irish as residents of a former ''beer-soaked backwater'' who are ''ungrateful'' for ''enormous E.U. farm subsidies, access for foreign investors to the E.U. market, and the liberation from a Britain complex.''
 Wherever the European Union has brought its farm subsidies and other illusory benefits, it has eradicated local, unique, diverse cultures in favor of an imposed lock-step conformity. 
 In the arena of agriculture, Poland, a new member state, is the latest victim of the union's rigid, top-down dictates. 
 As reported by The Times, Poland's 1.5 million small traditional farms are now threatened by the European Union-enabled expansion of industrial-agriculture giants like the pork producer Smithfield Farms (''Old Ways, New Pain for Farms in Poland,'' news article, April 4).
 Rather than being, as Mr. Cohen calls them, ''ungrateful'' for the European Union's debilitating subsidies, perhaps the Irish are in the vanguard of a hopeful wresting of local control back from a distant, parasitic, tax-financed bureaucracy.
 Mary-Louise Zanoni Canton, N.Y., June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: BRIAN COWEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND (95%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



523 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Why Is Oil So High? Pick a View

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and DIANA B. HENRIQUES; Vikas Bajaj and Clifford Krauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
People who have spent their careers tracking the ups and downs of the global oil markets say their compasses are spinning. Oil prices rise for reasons they cannot quite fathom, and where prices will be a year from now has become, literally, anybody's guess. 
 Those uncertainties have left regulators, oil companies and suppliers uncertain whether increases in supply or declines in demand will affect prices as they have in the past. Some wonder whether the market is broken in some way, creating a bubble of artificially expensive oil.
 ''This whole industry has absolutely been turned on its head,'' said Stephen Schork, who edits an energy newsletter. 
 In a sign of rising concern about the impact of high prices, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia has called an impromptu global energy summit in Jidda on Sunday. 
 A major factor behind the steady price rise, virtually everyone agrees, is that energy consumption is surging in high-growth countries, and oil supplies are not growing fast enough to keep up. But what confounds many experts is that the price of oil seems to be changing much faster than the world is changing. 
 For example, it took five years, from 2002 to 2007, for oil to go up by $60 a barrel. In just the last year, it galloped another $60 higher. For the first time since oil drilling began in the 1850s, the price has climbed for seven consecutive years.
 Old rules of thumb and assumptions that once helped traders foresee the direction of prices no longer seem to work. For example, since the oil shocks of the 1970s, a weak American economy used to mean lower prices. But during a period of sluggish growth in this country the price of oil has kept rising, to about $135 a barrel. Energy experts offer radically diverse predictions for the coming year, ranging from $60 oil to $200 oil.
 Beyond that, however, there is broad disagreement about the role of speculators in oil markets -- particularly a new breed of financial investors, including pension funds and hedge funds, who view oil and other commodities as just another way to make money, like stocks, bonds and real estate. 
 The evidence of their impact is mixed, but consumers and lawmakers nevertheless are furious, saying these new financial traders are driving up prices. 
 The impact of speculation on oil prices will be at the top of the agenda in the Jidda summit, and pressure is mounting for domestic regulators to act. Congress has held at least eight hearings on energy prices this month alone, and fourmoreare scheduled for next week. 
 One proposal would ban institutional investors from taking any stake in commodities, a move historians said would be rare for any global market.
 One of the guideposts that no longer seems to provide much guidance is that the price of oil on any given day was usually higher than the price of oil delivered at some point in the future. But, with increasing frequency, the future price is higher than the spot price. 
 That development usually signals concerns over future supplies, encouraging refiners to stockpile oil, which has not happened yet. It also typically signals that prices are likely to fall, and that has not happened, either.
 Of course, contradictory signals are an accepted part of the global oil market, which provides a third of the planet's energy needs yet is largely governed by regional or local events -- falling demand for gasoline in the United States contrasting with climbing demand for diesel fuel in China, for example.
 Also, no two countries -- indeed, no two fields -- produce the same kinds of crude oil, and refineries typically specialize in specific grades. As the lighter, more easily processed oil runs low, the world is slowly relying more on gooier, sulfur-rich varieties. That is straining the ability of refineries to produce more gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. 
 In the face of torrid demand, Iran has struggled for over a month to sell about 25 million barrels despite the steepest price discounts on record.
 The oil, stored in tankers in the Persian Gulf, is the sulfur-heavy variety. According to news reports and industry estimates, Iran has offered to cut its price by as much as $13 a barrel but still has not found buyers. 
 Many economists see a straightforward explanation for rising prices: Global oil supplies remain tight and there is a deep-seated fear that demand will outpace new production growth for years to come. In that climate, they say, the price will rise until it reduces global demand. But demand is still rising, even with oil at $134.62 a barrel. 
 The high price ''doesn't mean we have a shortage today, but it means there is a serious worry about a shortage three to five years from now,'' said Adam E. Sieminski, the chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank. 
 That view -- that market fundamentals are responsible for the price rally -- is widely held among energy analysts. 
 But it still does not fully explain why prices have risen as fast as they have. On June 6, for example, oil futures jumped by $10.75 a barrel, the biggest single-day increase in history. Even analysts who do not see an oil bubble still say predicting oil prices is becoming a hopeless task.
 ''There are a lot of cross currents making it almost impossible to say where prices are going to go, or where they should be, based on demand and supply,'' said Dan Rice, a portfolio manager at BlackRock, a large asset management firm. 
 As analysts have looked for new explanations for recent oil price gains, one popular theory is that a falling dollar has driven investors to commodities as an inflation hedge. On Friday, for example, oil prices took a big jump as the dollar fell.
 But Eric S. Rosengren, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said there had been little correlation between the dollar and oil prices over the last 30 years.
 Another theory is that energy subsidies are distorting the market, by shielding a large swath of the world from the impact of high prices and thereby encouraging high consumption. 
 Developing countries are beginning to address that problem. This week, China unexpectedly cut some of its subsidies, effectively raising the price of gasoline and diesel. But other subsidy cuts by India and Malaysia have been met with street protests.
 Some experts who see today's oil market as a bubble point to the record-setting stake that institutional investors have taken in the commodity markets in the last several years, variously estimated at $140 billion to $250 billion. A growing portion of that stake reflects rising commodity prices, not new money flowing in.
 Michael W. Masters, a hedge fund manager who will testify at one of the Congressional hearings next week, argues that index-tracking investors, who enter the market only as buyers, are swamping the relatively small commodities markets.
 ''Institutional investors are one of, if not the primary, factors affecting commodities prices today,'' Mr. Masters told the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committeelast month. George Soros, the billionaire investor, echoed his views.
 But their opinion is disputed by other recent market studies.
 One, from Barclays Capital, noted that index investing represented no more than 2 percent of the worldwide energy market. And most of the new money flowing in this year went into various types of funds that were as likely to sell commodities as buy them.
 Another study released this month by three academic researchers cited a ''paucity of hard evidence'' that speculators were inflating commodity prices. The study's authors also found that speculation levels over the last two years were well within historicalnorms.
 And Bernstein Research noted, in a new report, that oil prices had actually not kept up with the prices of iron ore and coal, ''two markets that are entirely closed to speculation.'' 
 These arguments are carrying little weight with distributors and marketers selling retail gasoline and heating oil, who are adding their complaints to the consumer fury descending on Congress.
 Like Gerry Ramm, a senior executive at Inland Oil, a fuel retailer in Ephrata, Wash., these battered business executives say financial investors are to blame for recent price increases. 
 Mr. Ramm said, ''Prices are becoming completely disconnected from the real market.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Farmers protested record oil and gas prices in Brussels on Wednesday. The price for crude oil settled at $134.62 on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOCK FISTICK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); HISTORY (71%); BONDS (69%); PENSION FUNDS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



524 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Ford Delays New Pickup And Reduces Production

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company said on Friday that it would delay introducing its new pickup, a vehicle critical to its plan to become profitable, and that it would probably lose money for a fourth consecutive year in 2009 because of a precipitous drop in demand for large vehicles.
 Ford said it would begin selling the highly anticipated 2009 version of the F-150 pickup in late fall, two months later than intended, because dealers needed more time to clear out the current model, which had been deeply discounted. 
 In addition, the company announced its second significant production cut in a month, saying it would build 90,000 fewer pickups and sport utility vehicles in the second half of the year than it had previously planned.
 It is increasing production of more fuel-efficient cars and crossovers, but over all, Ford plans to build 25 percent fewer vehicles in the third quarter than it did in the same period of 2007.
 Ford said it expected industry sales of 14.4 million to 14.9 million light vehicles, down from its previous projection of up to 15 million.
 ''As gasoline prices average more than $4 a gallon and consumers worry about the weak U.S. economy, we see June industry-wide auto sales slowing further and demand for large trucks and S.U.V.'s at one of the lowest levels in decades,'' Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said in a statement. ''Ford has taken decisive action to respond to this accelerating shift in customer demand away from large trucks and S.U.V.'s to smaller cars and crossovers.'' 
 Two debt-rating services, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, warned on Friday that they might downgrade Ford, along with the other Detroit automakers. Bruce Clark, a senior vice president at Moody's, said Ford's ability to finance its reorganization was becoming a concern. Ford said cash outflows would be larger than expected and that its automotive business would lose more money this year than in 2007, the opposite of its previous guidance. 
 ''Ford is going to burn a considerable amount of cash until it adequately expands its fleet of fuel-efficient cars and convinces consumers that these vehicles offer competitive value relative to Japanese product,'' Mr. Clark said.
 A liquidity crisis could allow Kirk Kerkorian, the billionaire investor, to gain influence at Ford. On Thursday, Mr. Kerkorian said he had increased his stake in the company to 6.49 percent and offered to infuse additional capital.
 Ford took another step back from its long-held goal of returning to profitability by 2009, saying it would have difficulty breaking even, which is the projection that executives made in late May. Ford lost $2.7 billion over all in 2007 and has not earned a full-year profit since 2005.
 The automaker said the market had deteriorated to such a degree that its financing arm, Ford Motor Credit, which had been a dependable source of profit, would lose money this year and was no longer planning a distribution payment to Ford in 2008. Ford Credit will have a pretax loss -- excluding any potential payment related to Ford's profit maintenance agreement -- primarily because of further weakness in large truck and S.U.V. auction values.
 Brian Johnson, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, projected that both Ford and General Motors might have to write down the value of their financing arms by at least $1 billion because of falling used-car prices.
 Shares of Ford declined more than 8 percent Friday, closing at $5.81, and have fallen 31 percent since May 1. G.M. shares were down nearly 7 percent, to $13.79.
 The F-150 delay increases the likelihood that the F-series will lose its distinction as the best-selling vehicle in the United States after 26 consecutive years. In May, four Japanese sedans, led by the Honda Civic, outsold the F-series, the first time in 16 years that a pickup truck was not the nation's top seller in any given month. Sales of the F-series fell 33 percent last month and were down 20 percent so far this year.
 Ford has spent several years and hundreds of millions of dollars, if not billions, overhauling the F-150, which has generated huge profits and is responsible for a large part of Ford's image. It is one of two new full-size pickups scheduled to go on sale this fall, along with Chrysler's 2009 Dodge Ram.
 Chrysler said it had no plans to delay the Ram's release.
 ''There's no better way to fight a slower pickup market than to introduce what we think is a game-changing truck,'' a Chrysler spokesman, Bryan Zvibleman, said.
 G.M., meanwhile, has indefinitely halted plans to revamp its pickups and S.U.V.'s in order to focus on smaller cars. Earlier this month, G.M. announced plans to close four truck plants in North America.
 Ford is idling its truck plant in Wayne, Mich., for nine weeks starting Monday, though the adjacent car plant is adding workers. The company will eliminate a shift at each of the two plants that build the F-150 and plans to shut one of them for most of the third quarter before starting to build the new F-150.
 ''We view the move to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles as permanent, and we are responding to customer demand,'' Mr. Mulally said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Unsold 2008 F-150 pickup trucks at a dealership near Denver. Ford is delaying the new model until the current models sell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (58%); ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



525 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: An Inheritance? What a Quaint Idea

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
You've probably heard about the bumper sticker, even if you haven't seen it. It's the one on Cadillacs in Florida and Lexuses in Arizona that says ''I'm spending my children's inheritance.''
 We've laughed at that for years. But the truth is, retirees have a lot of demands on their savings. Out-of-pocket health care costs, for one, are rising fast. At the same time, many people are not waiting until they die to help their children and grandchildren financially. And some are finding creative ways to draw on money that would otherwise be part of their estate. 
 For all these reasons and many more (I've ticked off eight below), it would be a bad idea to plan on getting any inheritance from your older relatives.
 Many people have figured this out, though not all. An AARPanalysis of the Federal Reserve Board's 2004 Survey of Consumer Finances noted that 21 percent of people born after 1964 thought they would inherit some money someday. After all, most of them still have living parents or grandparents. 
 But with each passing year, the pressures on the nest eggs of those older people will only grow. The truly rich will be fine, as they usually are. But a lot of other people, even retirees with net worths well into the seven figures, could end up spending every dime before they die. 
 There is nothing wrong with that, by the way. This is a judgment-free column on that front. There is no moral obligation to leave a cent to the next generation. And there are some people who struggle each day to make ends meet who only wish they could leave an inheritance. 
 But for those who thought that they would have something to pass on, or that money would be coming to them, here are some of the things that may get in the way.
 People who make it to 65 will live a lot longer. As of 2005, according to National Center for Health Statistics data, males aged 65 could expect to live to 82; for females, it was 85. That's 37 years of living expenses for couples, and it isn't easy or fun to scale back your standard of living. 
 Want to get a sense of how long you or your older relatives may live? Drop the phrase ''How long will I live'' into a search engine and play with some of the longevityquestionnaires that pop up on the results page.
 Social Security and Medicare will probably change. It's hard to find anyone who thinks those programs will get much more generous. Medicare premiums will rise, and the program may cover fewer procedures or not cover emerging ones. Meanwhile, taxes on Social Security benefits may rise, and everyone may have to wait longer to collect. 
 Fewer people have pensions, so they're more wedded to the markets. In 2005, according to the Employee Benefits Research Institute, 63 percent of workers in the private sector worked for employers who offered only 401(k) or similar plans, not traditional pensions. 
 As pensions continue to disappear, retirees and those close to the final quitting time will depend more heavily on how their investments perform. And as large numbers bet heavily on stocks to finance 20-plus years of retirement cruises and Cadillacs, some will inevitably lose big. 
 Out-of-pocket health care costs for retirees may soon hit seven figures a couple. Sounds crazy, right? Sure, these postretirement costs probably won't get that high for people who have employer-provided retiree health insurance, though few in the private sector do anymore. 
 For those who don't have such insurance and are retiring this year at age 65, the mutual fund giant Fidelity figures they will need $225,000 to cover their health care costs in retirement, though that doesn't include over-the-counter drugs, dentistry or nursing home expenses. 
 For 55-year-old couples, the numbers could go much higher, according to projections by the Employee Benefit Research Institute. Once these people hit 65, if they pay all Medicare costs, purchase Medigap coverage beyond that and have prescription costs higher than 90 percent of their peers, they'll need $1,064,000 in savings to finance these costs over the rest of their lives. 
 Divorced individuals may pass on less money. Splitting up can be expensive in itself, and maintaining two households for decades afterward will often cost more than sharing a dwelling. 
 Even if the parents have money left over, the ones who didn't have custody of the children may be less inclined to pass an inheritance on to them. ''The ties that parents have with kids and their interest in supporting them could well be weakened by the fact that they haven't spent much time with them,'' said Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at Boston University and the co-author of ''Spend 'Til the End,'' which gives readers a new way to think about financial planning. 
 It's getting easier to drain a home's equity. Homeowners who are 62 or older (though there are some exceptions) can take out a reverse mortgage, which is roughly akin to a home equity loan that you don't have to pay back until you (or your heirs) sell the house. So homeowners can tap the equity in their homes without having to make monthly payments to repay the debt.
 So far, borrowers have taken out roughly 450,000 of these loans since 1990, according to the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association. But the pace is picking up. Lenders, including mainstream operations like Bank of America and Wells Fargo, wrote more than 100,000 of them for the first time in the year ended Sept. 30, 2007. 
 Meanwhile, the association says, retirees are increasingly using mortgages as a financial tool -- and not simply as a last resort to pay for health care emergencies and the like. 
 Indeed, there is nothing to stop people from using the loan proceeds for vacations or cars or whatever they want. Millions just may do that someday, which makes reverse mortgages a real wild card. Their growth certainly raises the likelihood that large portions of family homesteads in America will end up belonging to banks, not heirs.
 Life insurance may not offer much help. It's now possible for people to sell their life insurance policies to investors in many circumstances. For a $1 million policy, an investor would pay some fraction of that immediately to the original policy holder, then hang on to the policy to collect the full amount when the seller dies. The more people who do this, the less money for any heirs.
 Meanwhile, the popularity of term life insurance, where policy holders are covered for 10 or 20 years or so but then get nothing afterward if they don't get a new policy, could also have an impact. Many people stop buying term life insurance after their children become adults or once a spouse dies. Their heirs will get nothing in the way of a payout. 
 The transfer of wealth will increasingly happen while the older generations are still alive. People in the latter halves of their lives now find themselves financing college tuition for grandchildren, chipping in when children or grandchildren graduate with five and six figures in student loan debt, supplying down payments in a tightening mortgage market and bailing the younger generations out of a host of other financial calamities. 
 Sometimes, this is part of a concerted effort to reduce an estate that could be subject to taxes. Other times, it's pure necessity. 
 But it may well be everything you'll ever get. If you put it to good use now, perhaps you won't have to choose later between selling your life insurance and draining your home equity. 
 Bequeath your comments to rlieber@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some transfers of wealth are made while the parents are alive, leaving little to pass down after death. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C6
 C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); AGING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); GRANDPARENTS (76%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (75%); STATISTICS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



526 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Assets Rise at Charity Arm of Major Fund

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Jenny Anderson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Judging by its charitable giving, The Children's Investment Fund, or TCI, did not suffer from America's economic downturn or the tight credit market last year. 
 Total funds at The Children's Investment Fund Foundation, the charity arm of TCI, more than doubled in the year ended Aug. 31, 2007, to $:802 million, or $1.6 billion, according to a filing with Britain's Charity Commission. That makes CIFF, as the foundation is known, one of the fastest-growing charities in history -- the fund had $66 million at the end of 2005. 
 CIFF is run by Jamie Cooper-Hohn, the wife of the founder of TCI, Christopher Hohn. Mr. Hohn is known for his activist investing, and TCI has been involved in a fierce battle with executives at the transportation company CSX. The situation is unusual in that CSX is not performing poorly -- but TCI and other hedge funds are angling for board seats because they think the company can do better. 
 While his investing methods may draw criticism, Mr. Hohn's donations to philanthropy have been sizable. The foundation reported $:324.5 million in ''total incoming resources,'' in its most recent report, most of which is believed to be TCI contributions. The market value of CIFF's investment funds increased from $:340.5 million to $:757.2 million in the year ended Aug. 31. 
 Most of the funds allocated to CIFF are reinvested in TCI until the foundation appropriates them to projects. In the most recent fiscal year, the company gave $:10.2 million in charitable grants, most of which went to H.I.V. and AIDS-related programs. 
 TCI, which has an estimated $10 billion in assets under management, created an unconventional fee structure that requires investors to donate to its charitable foundations. Rather than charging 2 percent of assets for managing the fund and 20 percent of profits like most of its peers, TCI charges 1 percent in management fees and 13 to 17 percent of the profits. Investors pay 0.5 percent of the money they have invested and 0.5 percent more if net returns exceed 11 percent to the charitable foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); CHARITIES LAW (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); AIDS & HIV (51%)

COMPANY: CSX CORP (83%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (83%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



527 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2382 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 21, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 CHIEF OPPOSITION STRATEGIST DENIED BAIL IN ZIMBABWE
 Tendai Biti, the secretary general for Zimbabwe's opposition party and its chief strategist, in self-imposed exile for two months, was assured safety should he return. Instead he was charged with treason and imprisoned in Harare, where he was just denied bail and ordered to be held pending his court appearance on July 7 -- 10 days after the election is set to take place. Page A10
 THREAT TO IMMIGRANTS AND THE AGED
 It is a common sight in Italy: the elderly gentleman or lady strolling, arms linked, with an aide. Often that aide is an immigrant, and as often illegal. The aides provide a service in a country where the elderly are a rapidly expanding group and birth rates are low. But under a new law proposed by the far right and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, being in Italy illegally would be a felony punishable with jail time. Page A6 
 SOUTH KOREAN REPLACES TOP AIDES
 President Lee Myung-bak of Korea has replaced 9 of his 10 senior presidential aides, hoping to restore trust. After a beef import deal with the United States, widespread protests accused the government of ignoring the health risks of importing American beef products from older cattle, despite assurances from both governments that the meat was safe. South Korea and the United States are currently close to a second deal in which no cattle older than 30 months will be imported. Page A10
 CHINA'S TRAFFIC PLANS FOR OLYMPICS
 With 49 days remaining before the opening ceremonies of the Olympic Games, and the air soupy with smog, Beijing officials announced a temporary measure to unsnarl the city's traffic and reduce its chronic and sometimes choking air pollution. The policy will restrict owners of private cars to driving on alternate days for a two month period, while operating hours for public transportation will be extended. Page A9 
 ARMS COMPANY ACCUSED OF FRAUD
 The president of a Miami Beach arms-dealing company and three others were indicted on charges of fraud and conspiring to misrepresent the types of ammunition they sold to the Defense Department as part of a $298 million Army contract. Federal officials say that they sold Chinese bullets to the Pentagon, who would then in turn supply Afghan security forces. But the bullets were old and supposedly Albanian. The Army contract and American law prohibit trading in Chinese arms. Page A8
 New Evidence in Torture Claims A10
 Hunger Strike in Moroccan Jails A8
 NATIONAL
 POLICE RAID HOME
 Of Baltimore Mayor
 Earlier this week, a team of police officers and staff members from the Maryland state prosecutor's office showed up at the home of Sheila Dixon, the mayor of Baltimore, with a search warrant. It was a major turn in a two-year state investigation into Baltimore's spending practices, and the fallout could imperil Ms. Dixon's tenure as mayor, which has been marred by controversy. PAGE A12
 JURY GIVES RESERVIST HIS JOB BACK
 When Michael Serricchio returned from active duty in the military reserves, he came back to a job at the same company with a smaller salary and less responsibility. So Mr. Serricchio turned to the courts, and a jury ruled that the company intentionally made him an offer it knew he would not be able to accept. ''This is a message to employers across the country that you have to protect the rights of people who are called up for service,'' his lawyer said. PAGE A11
 OBAMA DEFENDS FINANCE DECISION
 Senator Barack Obama justified his decision to opt out of the public financing system for the general election, saying it doesn't account for spending by independent groups. Senator John McCain's campaign continued to criticize Mr. Obama's decision, accusing Mr. Obama of a reversal on earlier pledges to accept public financing for his campaign. PAGE A13
 MCCLELLAN TESTIFIES ON C.I.A. LEAK
 In testimony before the House Judiciary Committee, Scott McClellan, President Bush's former press secretary, was grilled on his involvement in leaking the identity of an intelligence officer. Mr. McClellan didn't offer up much that was not already in his much-discussed best seller, ''What Happened,'' which was critical of the Bush administration. He said he had been unfairly vilified by Bush supporters since his book was published. PAGE A12
 PLAYING NICE ON THE HILL
 A long-stalled measure on telephone surveillance won easy approval in the House, which illustrates a burst of productivity and cooperation on a hyperpartisan Capitol Hill. Has Congress turned over a new leaf? While that's not impossible, it's more likely that both Republicans and Democrats are trying to deal with all the politically thorny issues now instead of in the weeks before the November election. PAGE A12
 MAYORS ADDRESS FUEL COSTS
 A report released at a mayors' annual meeting found cities grappling with high fuel costs. The survey found that most of the cities saw an uptick in the use of public transportation. Others saw a silver lining: the return of moneyed empty nesters and young professionals to downtowns areas. PAGE A12
 BUSINESS
 FEELING THE PINCH,
 Credit Cards Lower Limits
 The credit crunch has made companies like American Express and banks that issue cards like Visa and Mastercard nervous. So in response, many are cutting the limits for customers who have run up big debts, live in areas that have been hit hard by the housing crisis or work for themselves in troubled industries. And often, they're doing so without warning. PAGE C1 
 GRADUATION GIFT SEASON IS UPON US
 It's graduation season again, which means it's also graduation gift season. So is that graduation invitation really just an invitation for presents? ''It is hard to pinpoint when graduation presents became a must, but the excessiveness of gift giving has followed the general trend in our society to make every occasion a call for swag,'' Alina Tugend says. Miss Manners and other experts in etiquette weigh in. The consensus: whatever you decide to get the graduate, do not send a check. PAGE C5 
 CHINA FACES HIGHER GAS PRICES
 Gasoline in China costs about $3 a gallon -- 25 percent less than it does in the United States. Still, the Chinese government's decision to raise prices has ignited protests among poor Chinese who are hit hardest by higher food and fuel costs. Beijing was weighing those concerns against the huge losses at the country's two biggest refiners, Sinopec and PetroChina, which has pressured them to slow production, and have depressed their shares, dragging down the broader mainland stock market and angering the small investors who have lost much of their savings. PAGE C3 
 new york report
 BLOOMBERG TELLS JEWISH VOTERS 
 Obama Rumors Are Lies
 Speaking before a crucial constituency in the coming election, Jewish voters, in the pivotal state of Florida, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg forcefully denounced what he called a ''whisper campaign'' linking Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, to radical Islam. ''Let's call those rumors what they are: lies,'' said Mr. Bloomberg. PAGE B1 
 A SUMMER LIKE NO OTHER
 It is a bittersweet time for freshly sprung college graduates, at least those lucky enough to have landed jobs. Summer is here and for many young people working their first real jobs, it will be a summer reconfigured. ''When you're in college, you have three and a half months of vacation,'' acknowledged a recent graduate of Temple University in Philadelphia. PAGE B1
 SPORTS
 IN TICS AND IDIOSYNCRASIES,
 Top Players Find Their Zen
 Novak Djokovic often bounces the tennis ball for gratingly long stretches before he serves, especially before big points. Rafael Nadal towels off obsessively and makes sure that his drink bottle is positioned just-so during changeovers. Roger Federer twirls his racket and superfluously shakes his head. In a golden age of professional men's tennis, it is also the golden age of the quirky rituals meant to calm the jumpy nerves of the game's elite. PAGE D1 
 END OF THE ROAD FOR SCHILLING?
 Curt Schilling of the Red Sox hasn't thrown a pitch this season because of a shoulder injury, and his decision to have surgery rules out not just the prospect of a return this season, but ever. ''My season is over, and there's a pretty decent chance I've thrown my last pitch forever,'' he told a radio station. PAGE D4 
 Obituaries
 GENE PERSSON, 74
 When he produced the controversial racial drama, ''Dutchman,'' a two-character drama set in an empty subway car, the play was barred from one theater and the subsequent film was shot in London because New York City would not allow him to use its subways. But within weeks of the New York opening of the ''Dutchman'' film, his musical ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown'' opened -- an instant hit that ran nearly four years. PAGE A17
 HEWITT D. CRANE, 81
 His career traced the arc of the early computing industry, and he was instrumental in the design and construction of the first commercial computer to automate individual checking accounts. He started with a job at I.B.M.'s headquarters in New York City in 1949, before going on to found an internationally known winery. PAGE A17
 ARTS
 IT'S THE REVENGE OF THE NERDS,
 And Hollywood Is Rolling Its Eyes
 While Hollywood types don't necessarily revel in navigating the geeky, mostly male crowd at Comic-Con International, the giant comic book and fantasy convention in its 39th year, it's a necessity in a film landscape where comic book franchises routinely rake in hundreds of millions of dollars in domestic box office receipts. ''These people need Comic-Con more than Comic-Con needs them,'' one regular attendee said. In other words: Kneel before Zod! PAGE B7
 TIME RUNNING OUT FOR BUILDING
 Riverview High School in Sarasota, Fla., is the most influential of the Modernist buildings designed by Paul Rudolph. Earlier this week, the Sarasota County School Board cleared the way for the demolition of the building, halting a plan by preservationists who wanted to restore and it turn it into a music conservatory. The board said the preservationists' proposal failed to come up with a credible strategy to finance the restoration. PAGE B7 
 THIS WEEKEND
 SUNDAY MAGAZINE
 ''Mad Men,'' a show about the world of advertising in the early 1960s on Madison Avenue, languished for years after being rejected by HBO and Showtime. But after AMC picked it up, the show won instant critical acclaim, a Peabody Award and a Golden Globe. How its creator, Matthew Weiner, turned early-'60s advertising culture into the smartest show on television. PAGE 32 
 ARTS & LEISURE
 A well-financed experiment by some of the nation's most powerful musical institutions (Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Institute) has young professional musicians teaching music at New York public schools. A year spent following a thoroughbred French horn player named Alana Vegter as she taught at Ditmas Junior High School, Intermediate School 62, in the Kensington section of Brooklyn, showed how high-minded concepts can run smack into reality. PAGE 1 
 BOOK REVIEW
 Any new entry in the crowded field of books on the 1962 Cuban missile crisis must pass an immediate test: Is it just another recapitulation, or does it increase our net understanding of this seminal cold war event? By focusing on the activities of the American, Soviet and Cuban militaries during those tense October days, Michael Dobbs's ''One Minute to Midnight'' passes the test with flying colors, Richard Holbrooke writes. PAGE 1 
 TRAVEL
 While the paintings of Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes, valued for their beauty, power and candor, can be found in private and public collections throughout in the world, most of them still reside in Madrid. Of these, the majority are in the Prado museum. But the best frame for his work may be the city itself. A visitor can discover some of the hidden gems of Madrid by seeking out the Goyas elsewhere in the city, including where the artist left them. Page 3 
 SUNDAY STYLES
 Lance Armstrong, the cycling champion and anticancer campaigner, was in New York last week, making television appearances to promote a new Web venture, livestrong.com, devoted to healthy living. Also in town was the other Lance Armstrong, the tabloid darling and ''notorious Texas playboy,'' as people.com has called him, the one who dated an Olson twin and inspires headlines like ''How Lance Stole Kate From Owen.'' The question arises: Which Lance is Mr. Armstrong best known for? PAGE 1 
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 Nicole Kidman sashays in ads for Chanel No. 5 perfume. Eva Longoria, the bombshellette star of ''Desperate Housewives,'' sells L'Oreal Paris hair color. Jessica Simpson struts for a hair extension company, HairUWear, and the acne skin-care line Proactiv Solution. And Jamie Lee Curtis spoons up Dannon Activia yogurt while promoting Honda cars. It's nearly impossible to surf the Internet, open a newspaper or magazine, or watch television without seeing a celebrity selling something. In the era of the human billboard, where the star ends and the product and pitch begin is becoming less and less discernible. PAGE 1 
 EDITORIAL
 A GLOBAL AIDS CAMPAIGN STALLED
 A handful of Republican senators is blocking action on a bill that would greatly increase American funding to combat AIDS around the world. PAGE A18
 THE COURT AND WORKERS
 On Thursday, the Supreme Court, which has a reputation for being reflexively probusiness, issued the latest of several proworker decisions. PAGE A18
 FROM BROWNFIELDS TO GREENBACKS
 The plan for New York State to help pay to clean up toxic sites so developers could build something useful was a terrific idea. But it went astray in Albany. PAGE A18
 op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 As voters, all we need out of a vice-presidential nominee is one qualified to run the store in the event of crisis. Picking a running mate is -- no disrespect intended -- like picking a pet. PAGE A19
 BOB HERBERT
 Long-term economic distress is a big factor in the decline of two-parent families. PAGE A19
 SANDBAGGED
 After joining a valiant but futile effort to sandbag the riverbanks last week, an Iowa City, Iowa, resident finds himself canoeing over fence posts and mailboxes. An Op-Ed essay by Joe Blair. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAIL (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SEARCH WARRANTS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); BEEF (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PRISONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); FELONIES (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ARMS TRADE (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASON (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); MEATS (71%); ARMIES (70%); OLYMPICS (69%); SMOG (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (64%); AIR POLLUTION (64%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (55%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



528 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Tourist Helicopter Rides Are Set to Be Phased Out

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The uproar over the noisy comings and goings of sightseeing helicopters along the West Side of Manhattan has finally led to a plan to eliminate them.
 Air Pegasus, the operator of the heliport at the west end of 30th Street, has agreed to start phasing out tourist flights next year and to stop them altogether in 2010, according to a draft of an agreement that needs the approval of a State Supreme Court justice.
 The agreement would allow the heliport to continue handling corporate, emergency and government helicopters through the end of 2012. 
 By then, city and state officials hope to have chosen a new location along the West Side for the heliport, which sits within the boundaries of the Hudson River Park.
 The agreement would settle a lawsuit filed last year by the Friends of Hudson River Park, a group that raises money to support the park. 
 The group sued Air Pegasus and the Hudson River Park Trust, a state authority, contending that the existence of the heliport on the land side of the park violated the law that created the park. 
 Liberty Helicopters, a tour operator that is the biggest user of the heliport, was also a defendant.
 Under the agreement, the number of sightseeing flights would be capped at 25,000 for the year that ends on May 31, 2009, then to 12,500 over the next 10 months, then halted completely. The nontourist flights would also be limited, to 16,250 per year, according to the agreement.
 Air Pegasus also agreed to erect barriers to reduce the noise and fumes emanating from the heliport and to move the takeoffs and landings of tourist flights onto a barge in the river. The operator said it would try to proceed with a plan it floated last year to relocate the entire heliport onto barges adjacent to its current location until a new, permanent site for the heliport is chosen.
 ''We would rather the heliport wasn't there at all,'' said A. J. Pietrantone, executive director of Friends of Hudson River Park. But, he added, the agreement ''is probably the best we can get, given that there is not an alternative heliport.''
 A spokesman for the trust declined to comment about the proposal to move the existing operation onto barges.
 Diana Taylor, the chairwoman of the trust's board of directors, said in a statement: ''With this mutually beneficial settlement of a very thorny and complicated issue, I believe this is truly a case of being handed lemons and making lemonade. We preserve the most essential business, governmental and emergency needs for a West Side heliport while turning the facility itself into a friendlier neighbor to the park.''
 Air Pegasus is owned by Alvin S. Trenk and his family. Mr. Trenk also owns a minority stake in Liberty, according to Stefan Friedman, an Air Pegasus spokesman.
 ''This agreement recognizes the importance of having an aesthetically pleasing park along the Hudson River,'' Mr. Trenk said in a statement, ''while also ensuring that those engaging in commerce continue to have access to a West Side heliport, which is crucial to the economic vitality of New York and for the government agencies which protect its citizens.''
 The Trenks are also involved with FirstFlight, a company based upstate that has been chosen by the city's Economic Development Corporation to operate the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, one of the two other heliports in Manhattan. Operators of two sightseeing helicopter companies have appealed to city officials to reconsider granting FirstFlight control of the downtown heliport because they do not want the Trenks to be their landlord.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); RELOCATIONS (89%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); LITIGATION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



529 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Price Increases Put Pressure on the Fed

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
INFLATION is suddenly turning into a worry for the Federal Reserve, which knows that its credibility as a central bank would be damaged if investors concluded it was not determined to combat the recent rise in prices. 
 It still seems unlikely that the Fed will actually raise rates in an election year when the economy is probably in recession. But the surprisingly strong increases in producer prices for May, reported by the government this week, increased the pressure on the Fed at least to sound tough about inflation.
 The report showed that, over all, producer prices of finished goods rose 1.4 percent in May, raising the 12-month increase to 7.2 percent. That annual gain is still smaller than the 7.8 percent increase reported in the year through January, a figure that was the highest in a quarter century.
 Not since September 1981, when a severe recession brought on by a large Fed increase in interest rates was beginning to bring down inflation, has the overall producer price inflation rate been that high.
 Until recently, the Fed has emphasized the so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes energy and food prices. But in recent speeches, officials have conceded the obvious fact that increases in those prices have been large and serious for many consumers.
 The core rate is up 3.0 percent over the last 12 months, well below the overall rate but still higher than at any time in the last 16 years. A Duke University/CFO Magazine poll of chief financial officers released this week found that 45 percent of the American executives said their companies had raised prices to offset their higher energy costs. They now expect their own firms to raise prices by 4.1 percent over the next 12 months -- twice the rate they forecast nine months ago.
 As yet, however, the price increases are concentrated in some areas. The accompanying charts show that over the last 12 months, the producer prices of grains soared 64.8 percent, but the producer price for livestock edged up just 1.5 percent. Some farmers are selling off cattle quickly, depressing prices, because they cannot afford to feed them.
 To put the current price rises in perspective, the charts show the annual rates of gain so far in this decade, as well as in the 1980s and 1990s. Pharmaceutical price gains, which had been slowing earlier in the decade, have begun to increase again.
 To some extent, price changes are dependent on who uses a product, and how they are doing. Producer prices of lumber, widely used in home construction, are down 3.6 percent in the last 12 months. But iron and steel prices have leaped 32.6 percent. Commercial construction remains strong in many parts of the United States, and there is heavy demand in Asia.
 Some industries that historically had little pricing power may be getting a little such power. Producer prices for motor vehicles are up 1.0 percent, which is better than that segment has done in recent years but is still low. Similarly, apparel prices edged up 0.7 percent, which is also low but better than that industry had done earlier in the decade.
 Over all, the producer price statistics indicate that inflation rates vary widely, but there are signs that even the businesses where prices have been weakest in recent years are starting to find ways to recover at least some of their higher costs.
 Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics)
 Graphs showing strong increases in producer prices, which worries the Fed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



530 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Supreme Court Allows a Contentious Phone Buyout to Proceed

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
The largest leveraged buyout in history skirted a potentially crushing blow on Friday.
 The Supreme Court of Canada unanimously ruled in favor of Bell Canada and its purchasers late Friday, saying that the deal can proceed. While the ruling ends a challenge from bondholders, the $52 billion buyout still faces uncertainty over its financing and, more broadly, questions about the value of the company.
 In a move that almost no one foresaw, an appeals court in Quebec, Bell's home province, refused last month to approve the sale to a group led by the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan and its partners, including Providence Equity Partners and Madison Dearborn Partners. 
 The deal was structured under a Canadian system that requires both shareholder and court approval. The appeals court, however, refused to back the deal after finding that the company had not fairly considered the interests of current bondholders. By adding about $34 billion debt to Bell, the buyout would depress the value of the company's current debentures.
 The decision surprised most corporate law specialists in Canada who generally assume that, as in the United States, directors must consider only the needs of shareholders when making decisions about takeovers.
 By overturning the Quebec court, the Supreme Court has apparently endorsed that view. But because it heard Bell's case on an accelerated basis to accommodate the buyout's June 30 closing date, the court would not release the reasons for its decision for some time, perhaps months.
 ''While I feel sorry for the bondholders, the decision prevents complete obfuscation and confusion from developing,'' said Roger Martin, the dean of the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto. ''There was a lot riding on this.''
 Bell Canada said in a statement issued Friday evening that because of the unexpected legal delays, the deal would close during the third quarter rather than at the end of this month as scheduled. Richard J. Currie, the chairman, added: ''We expect all parties to the transaction will honor their commitments.''
 The deal was the high point of a series of private equity buyouts during the first half of last year. But the tight credit market that developed since brought the private equity buying spree to a close and might still derail the effort to take Canada's largest telecommunications private.
 ''We continue to negotiate the financing documents in good faith with the sponsors and stand behind our original commitment to the transaction,'' said Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Toronto-Dominion Bank. 
 People on both sides of the deal said earlier this month that the banks, which have been hit by higher lending costs, were demanding higher interest rates, tighter restrictions and increased protection for the banks.
 Exactly where the talks now stand is unclear. Negotiations will continue this weekend.
 Speaking for all the buyers, Deborah Allan of the teachers' pension said they were ''pleased with the Supreme Court decision. We're continuing to work to complete the acquisition.''
 But many analysts and others say the deal's demise may actually be to the buyers' benefit.
 ''It may be in their interest not to have this deal go through given the pricing,'' said Anita Anand, an associate dean at the law school of the University of Toronto, who specializes in securities and corporate law. 
 The purchasers' offer of 42.75 Canadian dollars a share was seen as high even last summer. Other groups were also vying for Bell, driving up the price.
 If the bid does fail, it will hurt the teachers' pension, at least in the short term. It is the largest Bell shareholder, holding about 6.3 percent of the company's stock. The collapse of the buyout would probably depress Bell's shares for some time to come.
 The bondholders canceled a news conference they had scheduled to discuss the court ruling because the court did not disclose its reasoning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (61%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (61%); MADISON DEARBORN PARTNERS LLC (57%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (52%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%)

TICKER: TD (TSX) (61%); TD (NYSE) (61%); RBS (NYSE) (61%); RBS (LSE) (61%); RBS (AMS) (61%); C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%); DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



531 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: A.M.D. And Its War With Intel

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, Stephen Labaton of The New York Times broke the news that the Federal Trade Commission had decided to open a formal antitrust investigation into Intel, the world's dominant maker of microprocessors. Subpoenas had gone out not just to Intel, but to many of the computer manufacturers who rely on Intel chips. The investigation, as Mr. Labaton wrote, was going to revolve around ''accusations that Intel's pricing is intended to maintain a near monopoly on the microprocessor market.''
 The chief accuser, of course, was Intel's main (some would say only) rival, Advanced Micro Devices. I say ''of course'' because I can scarcely remember a time when A.M.D. hasn't been complaining about Intel's supposed predatory behavior. But I can also recall the company's many missteps and execution failures over the years, which have tended to undercut its claims. It was always a little hard to swallow A.M.D.'s argument that it was being hurt by Intel's anticompetitive practices when it had such a long history of snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. 
 In recent years, however, two things have happened. First, in 2003, A.M.D. came out with a chip called Opteron, which was far superior to anything Intel had on the market. Indeed, this was one of the few times that Intel was the company stubbing its toe; it took a year before it had a competitive chip. What's more, the Opteron was aimed at the highly profitable server market, which has long been Intel's domain. It is fair to say that Intel was none too happy with this state of affairs, and it wasn't too long before A.M.D. was complaining that Intel was cutting deals to keep computer makers from straying, even though many of them wanted to use the Opteron.
 Which perhaps explains the second thing that happened: A.M.D.'s accusations finally began to gain some traction. In 2005, after a lengthy investigation, Japan's Fair Trade Commission asserted that Intel had violated the country's antitrust laws by, in effect, paying Japanese computer manufacturers to limit their business with A.M.D. That same year, A.M.D. sued Intel in federal court, charging predatory pricing; the case is scheduled to be tried in February 2010. Meanwhile, the European Commission began looking into Intel's pricing practices; it has since made several preliminary rulings that don't bode well for the chip giant. And in South Korea this month, Intel was fined $25.4 million for giving rebates to two South Korean computer manufacturers, which had the effect of ''excluding'' A.M.D., according to the Korea Fair Trade Commission. Intel has said it will appeal. (The New York attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, has also started an investigation, but he's just piling on.)
 With all this ferment, it was probably inevitable that the F.T.C. would follow suit. If the rest of the world is busy imposing sanctions on Intel for abusing its monopoly power, it hardly looks good for the nation's chief antitrust enforcer to be sitting on its hands. 
 When I made some inquiries this week, the strong sense I got was that the commissioners wanted to get to the bottom of the Intel accusations once and for all, and needed subpoena power to gather all the evidence they needed. 
 But in antitrust, the notion of ''getting to the bottom of it'' is notoriously squishy, and this case is squishier than most. There is no question that Intel offers large discounts to its big customers, along with rebates, quarterly marketing dollars and other goodies. Because those discounts are directly related to how much business a manufacturer gives to Intel, it necessarily has the effect of excluding A.M.D.--since it's the only other company competing for the business. 
 Is that predatory behavior? Or is that good old-fashioned competition? What makes antitrust so maddening is that the answer depends as much on who is asking the question -- and where -- as it does on the evidence.
 Let's start with a simple question: Are discounts good or bad? When I put it like that, the answer is obvious: discounts are clearly good. They allow consumers to buy things at lower prices. Indeed, price competition is at the very heart of free-market capitalism, and it is the natural result of competition. It's what we as a society want companies to do.
 For as long as we've had antitrust laws in the United States, predatory pricing -- pricing intended solely to prevent a rival from being able to compete -- has been against the law. After all, if a big company drops its prices on a short-term basis to drive a smaller rival out of business -- and then can raise prices with impunity because it has eradicated its competitor -- consumers are ultimately harmed by the price cuts.
 But our definition of predatory pricing has tended to vary over time. In the 1950s and 1960s, United States antitrust enforcers -- and the courts -- tended to view many forms of discounting as predatory. One sorry result was that actions that actually helped consumers were considered illegal practices.
 But in the 1970s, that all changed, as legal scholars argued persuasively that anticompetitive behavior had to be defined in more rigorously economic terms, and that there needed to be a high standard of proof that monopolistic behavior was harming consumers. This became known as the Chicago School of antitrust theory, and in time, the courts embraced many of its theories.
 One consequence is that today, it is almost impossible to bring a discounting case, even if it has exclusionary consequences. It is presumed by the courts that discounting benefits consumers. The only form of discounting that is now viewed by the courts as proof of predatory behavior is pricing below cost. When I spoke to Robert E. Cooper, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, who is representing Intel, he cited a series of Supreme Court cases, going back 20 years, that has come down in favor of discounting -- even enormous discounts based on market share, which have the effect of excluding rivals. Intel insists that it doesn't price below cost, and given the nature of these things -- selling in huge volume brings Intel's own costs down, thanks to economies of scale -- it will be almost impossible to prove otherwise.
 Does this mean that Intel is all warm and fuzzy when it is negotiating with the big computer manufacturers? Not remotely. Roger Kay, the president of Endpoint Technology Associates, and a very close observer of the Intel-A.M.D. wars, laid out a scenario to me that he thought likely. A computer manufacturer sees its market share declining. When it comes time to negotiate a new microprocessor contract with Intel, it is told that its volume has diminished so much that it can not longer get the same big discounts it has come to depend on for its own profits. But, the Intel salesman adds, if the company is willing to shift more business to Intel, and increase the volume a little, it will still get the discount. Naturally, the company agrees.
 Indeed, Mr. Kay says he believes this is precisely what happened in Japan, where the two companies that abandoned A.M.D. completely were Toshiba and Sony -- which were both losing market share to competitors. ''Thus,'' he wrote me in an e-mail message, ''Intel can claim it is doing nothing wrong and A.M.D. can claim its options are being foreclosed, and in a sense, they're both right.''
 One reason A.M.D. has had more success pressing its case abroad than in the United States is that in many places in the world, the reigning antitrust view is what's called the post-Chicago School, which holds that there are times when pricing above cost can still constitute predatory behavior. Indeed, the European Commissiontends to put far more emphasis on competition than on consumers, and views with suspicion companies with oversize market share, like Intel
 But what happens if the commission rules against Intel -- as seems likely -- but the F.T.C. and the United States courts rule in favor of the company? That's what happens these days with mergers that need government approval -- Europe has turned thumbs down on a number of mergers involving two American companies, and as a result they haven't gone through. The world economy really won't function very well if multinational companies have to dance between dueling regulators. Either we need to adopt their standards, or they need to adopt ours. The Intel-A.M.D. shows, if nothing else, how untenable the current state of play is in antitrust. 
 Despite its recent investigation, the F.T.C. has long been reluctant to pursue a formal investigation against Intel; I hear that even now many of its economists simply do not believe that Intel's policies amount to predatory pricing. But there is one other reason why A.M.D. faces an uphill struggle pressing its case in the United States. Its own market share numbers don't seem to back up its contention that Intel is preventing it from competing. According to data provided to me by Ashok Kumar, a well-known technology analyst with CRT Capital Group, A.M.D.'s overall market share in microprocessors was 17 percent in March 2005. By December 2006, it had risen to 25 percent. Today it has sunk back to 20 percent.
 The rise in market share is directly attributable to A.M.D. having strong products like the Opteron. But then Intel came roaring back, leap-frogging A.M.D.'s technology. Meanwhile, the smaller company's latest high-end chip, code-named Barcelona, has been delayed when a flaw was discovered in it. A.M.D. has lost money for six quarters in a row. 
 Apparently, some things never change.
 E-mail: nocera@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); MICROPROCESSORS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (72%); LITIGATION (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



532 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Caught in a Quandary, China Raises Fuel Prices

BYLINE: By JIMMY WANG; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong. Lucy Liang contributed research from Beijing.

DATELINE: GANSU 

 BODY:
Returning the fueling nozzle to the pump, Zhang Li jumped into the driver's seat of his gas-guzzling Land Rover. ''Such a long line,'' said the 45-year-old tour guide, shaking his head. ''What's the world coming to? My stocks are worth air, and now I have to wait an hour for overpriced gas, too.''
 Mr. Zhang's lament elegantly captured the twin dilemmas that led China's leaders to unexpectedly raise gas prices here by double-digit percentages Thursday. While much has been said about China's hesitance to raise domestic prices for fear of inflation, Beijing was facing an equally vexing problem: artificially low gas and diesel prices were indirectly depressing China's stock markets by hurting the performance of the energy giants Sinopec and PetroChina. 
 Price controls have saved Chinese consumers and businesses billions -- and prevented the kind of protests that led to rioting, and even a murder at the pump, the last time prices rose. 
 But controls have also squeezed Sinopec and PetroChina, China's top oil refiner and producer, respectively. They still had to pay near-record oil prices on world markets even if they were not allowed to charge market prices to consumers. The companies lost money on every gallon of gas they sold in China. 
 Combined, the companies make up 16 to 20 percent of the Shanghai Composite Index. PetroChina alone had a market capitalization -- the total value of all its shares -- larger than General Electric or Microsoft at the end of 2007. 
 Many Chinese investors are angry over the prolonged downturn. ''I invested 80 percent of my savings,'' said Wang Li, a 30-year-old manager in Shanghai. ''And I've lost over half my money now. I'm angry -- the government's measures to keep the stock market above 3,000 have failed.'' 
 Such stories are common. Record numbers of Chinese invested in China's stock market from late 2006 through the end of 2007. Now, many of those investors have been caught in a steep, sustained drop in prices since the end of 2007.
 Before the government let diesel prices increase 18 percent and gas prices 16 percent Thursday, the Shanghai exchange had lost 14 percent of its value last week -- and more than 50 percent since its high last year. 
 Sinopec's Shanghai-listed stock ended 2.1 percent higher Friday. PetroChina rose 4.6 percent, while the Shanghai index gained 3 percent to 2,831.74 points.
 The price of light crude fell $4.02 to $132.66 a barrel following the fuel price increase announcement.
 Mr. Zhang's complaints about high gas prices might not elicit sympathy from Americans: after the hikes, prices rose to about $3 a gallon. 
 As a matter of policy, the Chinese government sets gasoline and diesel prices well below international market prices in order to encourage economic growth. In 2007, China's subsidy of gasoline alone was $22 billion, close to 1 percent of its gross national product.
 While in the past this formula for economic growth worked miracles by allowing businesses and factories in China that use oil to operate at low cost, it is now at the crux of one of China's biggest policy issues. 
 With oil prices topping $130 a barrel mark this week, Sinopec and PetroChina shut down gas stations across the country. Long lines formed in front of gas and diesel pumps as the oil giants strove to cut their refining losses by selling less fuel. 
 The decision by the Chinese government to raise consumer fuel prices illustrates the balancing act Beijing is compelled to perform in advance of the Olympics. 
 On one hand, raising gasoline prices could stoke inflation, and that could spark protests among poor Chinese who are hit hardest by price increases for staples like food and fuel.
 On the other hand, the surprise announcement about the fuel price increases seemed to be a reply, at least in part, to widespread calls for change. 
 Financial analysts have urged China to raise its gasoline and diesel prices, suggesting prices that more accurately reflect cost will help determine supply. Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States' Treasury secretary, this month urged Beijing to reduce subsidies.
 Lon Fong Shon, director of China Market Research for JPMorgan, wrote in the June 11 edition of The Securities Times, a Chinese newspaper: ''If China were to have the courage to increase gasoline and diesel prices by 20 percent, it will send a message to the global market. Then perhaps global oil prices may fall.''
 Back on the highway in Gansu, Mr. Zhang is happy to be exiting the gas station and its long, tiresome lines. He tunes the radio to an upbeat pop song, and rockets his Land Rover down the highway. Then he complains a little more about his stocks:
 ''When the market took a dive earlier this year, I was really depressed for a while,'' he said. ''I didn't go to work several days; I just drank. Now I'm anxious everyday; I watch the stocks and I can't sleep. I'm just simmering inside with anger. Who knows? One day I might just explode.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cars lined up Thursday at a gas station in Wuhan, China, before the government let companies increase prices up to 18 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); RIOTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%)

COMPANY: PETROCHINA CO LTD (92%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: PTR (NYSE) (92%); K3OD (SGX) (92%); 0857 (HKSE) (92%); SNP (NYSE) (92%); SNP (LSE) (92%); 0386 (HKSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (57%); GANSU, CHINA (57%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



533 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Free Up More Land for Corn Crops

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Signs are growing that the government may allow farmers to plant crops on millions of acres of conservation land, while a chorus of voices is also pleading with Washington to cut requirements for ethanol production.
 The Midwest floods have washed out an estimated four million acres of prime farmland, crimping this year's harvest as the world desperately needs more grain. With corn prices setting records and soybean prices not far behind, the Bush administration is under intense pressure to do what it can to bolster the food supply.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and one of Capitol Hill's main voices on farm policy, on Friday urged the Agriculture Department to release tens of thousands of farmers from contracts under which they had promised to set aside huge tracts as natural habitat. 
 ''This is an extraordinary request,'' Mr. Grassley said in a telephone interview as he toured his devastated state. ''I would not make it if the situation in the Midwest were not so dire.''
 In disasters, the Environmental Protection Agency can roll back requirements for ethanol production, which could free up a large amount of corn for animal feed. Mr. Grassley, a strong ethanol backer, rejected that proposition, but in recent days many industries that depend on corn have urged the government to act. 
 A quarter of the United States corn crop is used for biofuels rather than animal or human food, and the percentage is rising. What this has done to the price of gasoline is debated by ethanol's critics and defenders, but it has certainly benefited farmers, who have not seen such demand for their corn crop in decades.
 On the losing side of the equation have been cattle, hog and chicken producers, as well as consumers. The government's latest projection, released Friday, is that food prices this year will rise as much as 5.5 percent. Some products, including cereals and eggs, are expected to rise about 10 percent.
 An Agriculture Department spokesman said Friday that the Grassley proposal would be considered. This week, the agriculture secretary, Ed Schafer, said his department would consider ''everything possible'' to aid farmers.
 In the last couple of days, corn fell from its recent highs as traders grew convinced the government would release conservation land. Corn closed Friday at $7.21 a bushel, still an extraordinary price by historical standards.
 The idea of easing ethanol mandates, while it would also lower the price of corn, is contentious. ''There are different forces at work in the administration that are basically duking it out over how this should come out,'' said Brent Erickson, executive vice president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a Washington group that follows the issue.
 Keith Collins, the former Agriculture Department chief economist, will release a study on Monday saying that as much as half of the sharp increase in corn prices over the last few years is due to the demands of ethanol production. 
 That view diverges sharply from the view of Mr. Collins' former boss, Mr. Schafer, who said at a Rome conference that only a tiny percentage of the increase in world food prices was due to American ethanol production.
 ''We've seen a tremendous range of unintended consequences'' from the requirement that increasing amounts of ethanol be blended into gasoline, Mr. Collins said. 
 The economist, who was hired by the Kraft food company to prepare his report, said he would be surprised if the Agriculture Department did not open up some conservation lands. He would not speculate about a change in the ethanol mandates.
 The White House will be forced to confront the ethanol issue next month. States are allowed to asked for waivers of the mandate for corn ethanol on the ground that it is harming the economy or the environment.
 In April, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas did just that, saying the ''misguided'' mandate was devastating the livestock industry in Texas. He asked for a large decrease in ethanol requirements to free up corn for use as animal feed. 
 The comment period for the waiver ends on Monday; the E.P.A. administrator has until July 24 to make a decision. 
 President Bush has been a strong supporter of alternative fuels, including ethanol. But Keith B. Hennessey, Mr. Bush's chief economics adviser, said in an interview last week, ''We have pushed renewable fuels to the point where we are getting counter-pressure saying we are going too far''.
 About 34 million acres are enrolled in the government's biggest conservation program, known as the Conservation Reserve Program. Farmers enroll their land for as long as a decade and cannot take it out without paying severe penalties. 
 Last month, the Agriculture Department took the unprecedented step of saying that some conservation land could be used for hay and grazing after the nesting season ends for grass-nesting birds. Farmers would pay only a $75 fee.
 As of Friday, more than half a million acres had been signed up for the modification. 
 Environmental and hunting groups generally went along with that shift, but were quick to decry Mr. Grassley's latest proposal.
 ''Clearly there is elevated pressure every day to take land out of the program, but it would be completely devastating to wildlife,'' said Dave Nomsen, vice president of governmental affairs for Pheasants Forever, an advocacy group. 
 A better idea, Mr. Nomsen said, would be to take the millions of flooded acres and put them into conservation programs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kirk Siegle, fearing flooding, removed corn Monday from a bin on his farm in Oakville, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C2)
 Jim Heitman at his farm Friday in Elsberry, Mo., Because of flooding, he says, he has planted only 50 acres of corn this year compared with 600 last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); BIOMASS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (73%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); LIVESTOCK FEED (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ANIMAL FOODS (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (79%); ED SCHAFER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



534 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Vice Is Nice

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Let's discuss the vice presidency. Come on.
 Who are Barack Obama and John McCain going to choose for their running mates? I'm praying that McCain selects Mitt Romney so I can repeatedly revisit the time Mitt drove to Canada with the family dog on the station-wagon roof.
 Or perhaps they could both pick Michael Bloomberg. 
 If you're planning on discussing vice presidential hopefuls at an upcoming dinner party, the best bet is to propose a swing-state governor no one's heard of. (''When it comes to a combination of experience and youth, I've got to go with Tim Pawlenty.'') Even if you're wrong, it will impress the heck out of people. 
 Vice presidents provide more interesting material for conversation than you might think, although most are best appreciated as random anecdotes. For instance, did you know that William King, Franklin Pierce's running mate, was the only bachelor vice president, and that he lived for years with James Buchanan, the only bachelor president? 
 And then there was Charles Dawes, Calvin Coolidge's veep, who wrote the melody to the song ''It's All in the Game'' and got a Nobel Peace Prize for his work on stabilizing the German economy after World War I. 
 Yes, I know. That last one didn't work out too well. The song is nice, though.
 It's only fairly recently that the top of the ticket had a say in selecting a running mate. Presidential candidates used to stay home during the party convention, reacting with delighted surprise when word of their nomination arrived. The second spot was like one of those Secret Santa gifts you receive from a fellow employee who doesn't know you very well. When Rutherford B. Hayes first got word that he was going to be hooked up with Representative William Wheeler of New York, Hayes enthusiastically responded: ''Who is Wheeler?''
 But you never know how these arranged marriages will work out. Hayes and his wife took Wheeler, a retiring widower who suffered from hypochondria, under their wings. He wound up spending many a happy night sitting quietly in the corner of the White House parlor. 
 Vice presidential handicappers have always given a lot of attention to geography, although this makes no sense whatsoever. Americans aren't dumb enough to vote on the basis of which running mate is from their state. (''I may disagree with John McCain on every single point of policy, but he's got Tim Pawlenty on the ticket and we both live in Minnesota. How cool is that?'')
 Sometimes a vice presidential selection will tell you what qualities the presidential nominee feels he lacks. George W. Bush, for instance, picked Dick Cheney because Cheney had experience while Bush ... enjoyed baseball.
 Martin Van Buren (New Yorker, sort of chubby, career politician) was the Democratic candidate when the party was looking for balance and picked Richard Johnson, a colorful former Indian fighter from Kentucky. In 1840, Van Buren was pitted against William Henry Harrison, whose claim to fame was defeating Tecumseh at the Battle of Tippecanoe. Johnson had actually -- or at least allegedly, reputedly and possibly -- killed Tecumseh in a later encounter. When a Whig said ''Tippecanoe and Tyler, too'' Van Buren's backers were supposed to say: ''Rumpsey, dumpsey. Colonel Johnson shot Tecumpsey.'' 
 This did not work out all that well.
 Meanwhile, that Harrison-Tyler combo was the ultimate don't-ask-don't-tell ticket, since Harrison never said what he thought about anything, and no one ever asked Tyler his opinions. All the Whig leaders knew was that it was a wonderful balancing act, since Tyler was a Virginia slave owner and Harrison was a northerner who was maybe possibly perhaps opposed to slavery. 
 Imagine the Whigs' surprise when Harrison died a few weeks after the inauguration, and it turned out that Tyler disagreed with virtually the entire party program, public works plan included. 
 As voters, all we need in a vice presidential nominee is a man or woman qualified to run the store in the event of a crisis, on more or less the same lines as the person at the top of the ticket.
 Other than that, picking a running mate is -- no disrespect intended -- like picking a pet. How much time are you planning to spend with the little fellow? How much exercise will he be getting on an average day? On one extreme, you have the William Wheeler model (''There's the living room. Go find a corner and sleep in it.'') On the other end, there's the Cheney version in which the pet takes over the checkbook, diversifies the family investment portfolio and starts strafing at the neighbor's cat.
 I think I speak for us all when I say that something in the middle would be nice. The Al Gore model. Unfortunately, Gore's vehement insistence that he's not interested in being on the Obama ticket suggests that he didn't enjoy the vice presidency all that much. Maybe the Nobel Peace Prize has gone to his head. I wonder if he's ever heard of Charles Dawes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MARRIAGE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); BASEBALL (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); TIM PAWLENTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



535 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BELIEFS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: A Featured Spot for Rove Raises at Least One Eyebrow

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
Is it morally fastidious to find something disconcerting in the fact that the featured speaker at the National Right to Life Committee's annual convention in two weeks will be Karl Rove? 
 Is it politically naive to be surprised that the nation's leading anti-abortion organization, which describes itself as nonpartisan, would make the star of its election-year convention the embodiment of the Bush administration's politics at their most calculating and hard-hitting? Or that his presentation, on the Fourth of July, no less, is titled ''Renewing Life in America -- An Old-Fashioned Political Rally''? 
 A lot of people would say yes, it is only to be expected. They include many Americans who more or less rank Roe v. Wade with the Emancipation Proclamation, noting, as a majority of Supreme Court justices did in a subsequent decision in 1992, that the availability of abortion has facilitated ''the ability of women to participate equally in the economic and social life of the nation.'' 
 For them, the moral issue is settled, and there is nothing unexpected about abortion opponents' turning to someone known more for political warfare than moral reasoning as their featured speaker in an election year. 
 This is equally true of many on the other side of the abortion debate. They regularly equate Roe v. Wade with the Dred Scott decision of 1857, a Supreme Court ruling that history has condemned for putting some human lives at the disposal of others. For them, legalized abortion, frequently in conflict with their religious beliefs, is an open and shut case. Why not enlist a leading political warrior to help shut it? 
 But any fair reading of decades of poll data suggests that when it comes to abortion, an even greater number of Americans are betwixt and between. They shift in their moral judgments on abortion, depending on the circumstances or stage of a pregnancy. They vary in their views on how moral or religious principles should be translated into law when not everyone agrees on them. It has often been said that the debate over abortion is a struggle to win the hearts and minds of this group. 
 Karl Rove has never been identified with the betwixt and between. And apparently that is not a problem for the National Right to Life Committee. 
 Asked about the choice of Mr. Rove, two committee officials offered observations that would not raise objections from skeptics, or allay their skepticism. 
 ''He's definitely a known political entity,'' said Derrick Jones, the committee's spokesman, ''and when he speaks, he can be very motivational.'' 
 David O'Steen, the committee's executive director, said, ''There is no one that understands the political scene better than Karl Rove.''
 Mr. O'Steen added a long list of personal traits --''very bright, very witty,'' ''extremely well read,'' ''intelligent guy''-- and warned against relying on public stereotypes. He illustrated the point by relating how he had discovered that Jesse Helms, then still in the Senate, was in person ''charming, genteel, soft-spoken,'' an example that might not prove universally reassuring. 
 But the core of the committee's case was political, not personal. 
 ''There's no denying that among the two political parties, there is one that supports overturning Roe and one that doesn't,'' Mr. Jones said. After endorsing former Senator Fred D. Thompson in the Republican primaries, the committee has endorsed Senator John McCain for the general election.
 When ''two great parties take diametrically opposing views'' on abortion, Mr. O'Steen explained, it is inevitable that abortion opponents appear aligned with one of them. 
 The logic is unassailable. If the future of limiting abortion depends on Republican victories at the polls, why not give the place of honor at the committee's convention to the man most associated with achieving those victories? In an election year, all the more so. 
 The National Right to Life Committee is nonpartisan, Mr. O'Steen said, in the sense that it supports Democratic candidates opposed to abortion in the rare instances when they face Republican backers of abortion rights. 
 Certainly there will be attendees, probably even leaders, at the convention's many educational and organizational workshops who are registered Democrats, he said, but not those who will be voting for Senator Barack Obama. Unlike other Democrats, he said, these attendees have ordered their priorities and have answered the question whether they are ''more Democrat or more pro-life.'' 
 Many of the nation's betwixt-and-betweeners would probably agree that they have to order their priorities. They just do not see that process in simple terms of party loyalty versus their qualms about abortion. 
 They may be weighing in the balance their concerns about the deaths and suffering caused by war, hunger, disease, terrorism, economic disruption and environmental change. They may be skeptical about the likelihood of either party's overturning Roe v. Wade, or about the consequences if that ever happened. They may wonder whether pressing for legal restrictions on abortions is really the most realistic way to reduce their numbers.
 They may even agree with President Bush that changing the culture is the prerequisite for changing the law and with two popes and many other religious leaders that creating a ''culture of life'' is a multidimensional task. 
 In short, they may agree on the importance, as the first part of Mr. Rove's announced topic puts it, of ''Renewing Life in America'' -- but still be doubtful that ''An Old-Fashioned Political Rally,'' led by the genius of hardball politics, is the best way to go about it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (70%); RELIGION (69%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



536 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: A Global AIDS Campaign Stalled

 BODY:
A handful of Republican senators is blocking action on a bill that would greatly increase American funding to combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria around the world. If their delaying tactics succeed, the United States will lose considerable leverage in trying to persuade other advanced nations to contribute substantially more money to fight against global disease at the upcoming meeting of the Group of 8 industrial nations. 
 That will undermine the Bush administration's leadership in combating the global scourge of AIDS. It is long past time for President Bush himself to get engaged in breaking this legislative impasse. He should press the Republican leadership and seven recalcitrant Republican senators to cooperate in an orderly and expeditious vote, unencumbered by a filibuster or the introduction of myriad amendments designed to eat up time.
 The House passed its version of the bill in April by a 308-to-116 vote that had bipartisan support and an endorsement from the White House. It would authorize spending $50 billion over the next five years to combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, a big increase from the $19 billion spent in the first five years of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and much more than Mr. Bush had requested. The added money is needed to treat or care for millions more people infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS; to provide prevention services to tamp down the AIDS epidemic; and to expand the campaigns against malaria and tuberculosis.
 Unfortunately, the Senate's version of the bill, which was approved by the Foreign Relations Committee in a 18-to-3 vote, has bogged down in procedural uncertainties. A group of seven Republican senators, led by Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, has placed a hold on the bill unless their concerns are met. They contend that the $50 billion spending level is irresponsible, and they object to the elimination of a previous requirement that 55 percent of the AIDS money be spent on treatment as opposed to prevention or other services.
 These objections are unpersuasive. Even a $50 billion American contribution over five years matched by substantial contributions from other industrialized nations would not finance all the treatment and prevention programs needed to quell the epidemic. The real issue is how wisely the money is spent. Mr. Coburn wants to ensure that the bulk of the American money goes for treatments that will save lives. But earmarking a specific percentage of funds to be spent on particular activities hampers the flexibility and effectiveness of the program, according to both the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and the Government Accountability Office. One of the most promising prevention measures, circumcision of males, is apt to be very expensive, and it would be a shame if it got insufficient support simply because an arbitrary percentage of the program's budget had to be spent on treatments. 
 The bill is currently stalled because Senate leaders seem reluctant to bring it to the floor absent an agreement that would limit debate and expedite a vote. Some advocacy groups that don't like specific provisions would prefer to wait for a new president and Congress. But no one can be sure that, in a faltering economy, there will still be bipartisan support for a $50 billion bill next year. It would be best to pass the bill in time to strengthen the president's hand at the G-8 summit in early July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MALARIA (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TUBERCULOSIS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); VIRUSES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); TOM COBURN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



537 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: With Flurry of Deals, And Eye on Calendar, Congress Clears Decks

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After months of sniping and stalemate, a hyper-partisan Congress is experiencing a sudden burst of harmony and productivity, as illustrated by the easy House approval on Friday of a divisive and long-stalled terror surveillance measure.
 Swift deals were also reached in recent days on unrestricted war spending, an extension of jobless benefits and a major new college aid program for veterans. In addition, a measure drafted in response to the mortgage crisis is making solid progress in the Senate. 
 Has a new day dawned on Capitol Hill? 
 Perhaps, but it is Election Day lawmakers are really worried about. This week's accords reflected a clear calculation by leaders of both parties that they needed to dispose of some politically treacherous issues now, rather than risk fighting them out in the weeks immediately before the November election. 
 The decision to seek accommodation required Democrats, Republicans and the White House all to give some ground in order to strike the necessary compromises. As John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said on the House floor, the results might not be perfect, but they were acceptable under the circumstances.
 ''You may not love it,'' Mr. Boehner said as he rallied support for the war spending measure he conceded was overpriced. ''But this is one of those moments when you've worked together, you've worked out a compromise, that members need to just suck it up and vote yes.'' 
 The deal on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, approved by a vote of 293 to 129, had been months in the making, the product of delicate negotiations between House and Senate leaders. In contrast, the agreement on war spending came together in a hurry this week after consultations between the top Democrat and Republican on the Appropriations Committee led to talks between Mr. Boehner and Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
 Republicans had good reason to lobby for a deal. The White House and Pentagon were eager for the $162 billion needed to pay for combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. And rank-and-file Republicans were getting nervous about the party's repeated resistance to an extension of unemployment benefits when laid-off workers in their own districts were hurting. 
 Most Republicans were also eager to get behind the generous expansion of veterans' education benefits despite the huge cost -- estimated at $63 billion over 10 years -- and some resistance from President Bush. But Ms. Pelosi warned that Democrats were ready to remind voters of his tie to Republican candidates if they continue to side with the president in blocking popular proposals.
 ''He will be on the ballot in November with many of these members if they keep voting with him against unemployment insurance needs for Americans who lose their jobs through no fault of their own or people in need of disaster assistance because of the rains,'' she said.
 Yet she and her fellow Democrats were motivated to cut some deals as well. They did not want to let the military money lapse long enough that the Pentagon began laying off people, allowing Republicans to savage Democrats for undercutting defense. And they did not want to spend the summer fighting about the war in Iraq, reminding their own voters they had failed to force Mr. Bush to buckle to their demands for a withdrawal deadline.
 Democrats also knew they needed to get something in exchange for dropping conditions on the war spending to soften the blow for voters unhappy over the war. They insisted on the new G.I. education benefits, the unemployment extension and billions of dollars in added domestic spending -- all proposals that had raised objections from the White House but were now in line for approval when linked to the war money.
 ''We are going to get the best that we can from a lame-duck president,'' said Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington. 
 The surveillance legislation was equally problematic for Democrats. Many remain leery of giving the Bush administration new powers to spy after the administration conducted widespread wiretapping without seeking court approval. And Democrats have become less cowed by Republican assertions that they were exposing the public to the threat of terrorist attack by failing to approve the surveillance power.
 But the House leadership did not want to head into the fall without moving forward on the surveillance law. Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader, helped engineer a compromise that could attract some Democratic support and get to Mr. Bush's desk. Still, 128 House Democrats voted on Friday against the measure, while only 105 voted for it.
 But the surveillance bill, along with the war spending package, appears headed for Senate passage next week. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, indicated on Friday that he might make one last effort to remove a provision granting legal protection for telecommunications companies from the surveillance bill, though he said he doubted he would succeed. And he said the spending measure seemed satisfactory. ''I think we've made tremendous progress,'' he said.
 The agreements on the spending and spy bills may be the legislative high-water marks of the year. With those top issues out of the way and the housing measure moving ahead, lawmakers and senior aides say they see little else on the horizon outside of a handful of spending bills, a few popular health care measures, new consumer protections and one final catch-all bill to carry the government past the elections.
 Instead, Congress is likely to spend the coming months bickering over energy policy, the economy and who has the best interests of the nation at heart. All in all, a return to normal after a politically expedient pause for bipartisanship.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, right, the majority leader, with his colleagues Richard J. Durbin, left, Patty Murray and Charles E. Schumer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ESPIONAGE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



538 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: A Dubious Milestone

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Some years ago, I wrote about a teenager named Kendra Newkirk, who was raised by her mom and had only seen her dad once in her life. Because of an emergency, Kendra and her mom had to meet the father at a particularly busy public location in Brooklyn.
 Kendra had no idea what he looked like. ''It was hard,'' she told me. ''He could have been any one of those men walking on the street. I kept asking my mother: 'Is that him? Is that him?' '' 
 I've been thinking about Kendra ever since Barack Obama spoke on Father's Day about the tragic flight of so many American fathers, especially black fathers, from their children's lives.
 His comments came as the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston was compiling data that revealed a dubious milestone. In 2006, for the first time in U.S. history, a majority of all births to women under 30 -- 50.4 percent -- were out of wedlock. Nearly 80 percent of births among black women were out of wedlock.
 By comparison, when John F. Kennedy was elected president in 1960, just 6 percent of all births were to unmarried women under 30.
 Since then, the percentages have risen across the ethnic spectrum. One-third of white, non-Hispanic women under 30 who gave birth in 2006 were unmarried. For Hispanics, it was 51 percent.
 ''Of all the rocks upon which we build our lives, we are reminded today that family is the most important,'' said Senator Obama, in remarks he delivered at the Apostolic Church of God in Chicago. ''And we are called to recognize and honor how critical every father is to that foundation ...
 ''But if we are honest with ourselves, we'll admit that too many fathers are missing -- missing from too many lives and too many homes. They have abandoned their responsibilities, acting like boys instead of men. And the foundations of our families are weaker because of it.''
 This is not a simple matter. Obviously, fathers should care for their children. But just wagging a finger and telling them sternly to step up to their responsibilities is about as effective as hollering at the wind.
 Senator Obama touched on this when he talked about the need for certain policy changes to make it easier for young men to fulfill their parental obligations -- for example, offering tax incentives and job training to those making a sincere effort.
 ''We should be making it easier for fathers who make responsible choices and harder for those who avoid them,'' he said.
 But a lot more is needed. One of the main reasons out-of-wedlock births have skyrocketed in recent decades is because it has become so difficult for poor and poorly educated young men to earn enough to support a family.
 There is no doubt that a lot of clowns have fathered babies when they shouldn't have, and too many have irresponsibly taken a walk. But it's also incredibly difficult for many of these young people to find the kind of employment that makes raising a family feasible.
 The U.S. economy does not come close to providing decent employment -- enough jobs -- for everyone who wants to work. At the lowest end of the economic ladder the crisis in employment is reminiscent of the Great Depression in its intensity.
 It is in this group of poor and educationally deprived young people that out-of-wedlock births are highest.
 Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies, put it this way in a research paper:
 ''The marriage rates of all native-born young males and young black males (22-32 years old) in the U.S. are strongly correlated with the annual earnings of these young men. The higher their annual earnings, the more likely they are to be married. Among native-born black males, those men with earnings over $60,000 were four times more likely to be married than their peers with annual earnings under $20,000.
 ''Unfortunately, the mean annual earnings of young men without four-year college degrees have plummeted substantially over the past 30 years, and declined again over the 2000-2007 period. Declining economic fortunes of young men without college degrees underlie the rise in out-of-wedlock child-bearing, and they are creating a new demographic nightmare for the nation.''
 His words of warning echoed those I heard a few weeks ago from Walter Fields of the Community Service Society in New York. ''These are the kids everyone forgets about,'' he said. ''It's a huge population, and I think of it as the hidden crisis of America.''
 Employment is the master key to the thriving families that Senator Obama talked about and that are supposed to be the American ideal. If we can't achieve something close to full employment for the wider society, there is very little hope for those mired at the bottom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); HISTORY (78%); FAMILY (78%); MEN (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); JOHN F KENNEDY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



539 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Rise in the Number of Renters Erases a Decade's Gain in Home Ownership

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Driven largely by the surge in foreclosures and an unsettled housing market, Americans are renting apartments and houses at the highest level since President Bush started a campaign to expand homeownership in 2002.
 The percentage of households headed by homeowners, which soared to a record 69.1 percent in 2005, fell to 67.8 percent this year, the sharpest decline in 20 years, according to census data through the end of March. By extension, the percentage of households headed by renters increased to 32.2 percent, from 30.9 percent.
 The figures, while seemingly modest, reflect a significant shift in national housing trends, housing analysts say, with the notable gains in homeownership achieved under Mr. Bush all but vanishing over the last two years.
 Many of the new renters, meanwhile, are struggling to get into decent apartments as vacancies decline, rents rise and other renters increasingly stay put. Some renters who want to buy homes are unable to get mortgages as banks impose stricter standards. Others remain reluctant to buy, anxious that housing prices will continue to fall. 
 The confluence of factors has largely derailed what Mr. Bush called ''the ownership society,'' his campaign to give millions of people -- particularly minority and lower-income families -- a shot at homeownership by encouraging lenders to finance more home purchases. 
 ''We're not going to see homeownership rates like that for a generation,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, a research company.
 For many minority and lower-income families who viewed homeownership as a stepping stone to building wealth and passing it on to their children, the transition from owning to renting has been the unraveling of a dream. Burdened now by debt and bad credit, some of these families are worse off than they were before they bought. 
 ''The bloom is off of homeownership,'' said William C. Apgar, a senior scholar at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University who ran the Federal Housing Administration from 1997 to 2001. ''We're seeing more dramatic growth in renters and a decline in the number of owners. People are beginning to understand that homeownership can be a very risky venture.''
 Mr. Apgar said the Joint Center had predicted an increase of 1.8 million renters from 2005 to 2015, given expected population trends. Instead, they saw a surge of 1.5 million renters from 2005 to 2007 alone. In the first quarter of this year, 35.7 million people were renting homes or apartments, census data show.
 ''Even though we're only looking at a short period, these trends are pretty powerful,'' Mr. Apgar said.
 Mr. Zandi said he believed that minority and lower-income homeowners had been hardest hit. Nearly three million minority families took out mortgages from 2002 to the first quarter of this year, housing officials say. Since minority families were more likely to receive subprime loans, economists believe these families account for a disproportionate share of foreclosures. 
 Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, said that officials had hoped the homeownership gains would stick. ''We're disappointed that conditions in the housing market didn't allow those gains to be sustained,'' he said. ''But we're optimistic that they can return.''
 The new renters include people like Tina Williams, a 43-year-old medical assistant who lost her three-bedroom colonial in Cleveland to foreclosure in March after her adjustable rate mortgage spiked and she struggled to find work.
 Ms. Williams slept at a homeless shelter and at the homes of friends after five apartment complexes rejected her, citing her bad credit and history of foreclosure. 
 Finally, someone offered to rent her the third floor of their house. Her new $300-a-month rental has a bedroom, a living room and a bathroom, but no kitchen. 
 ''People say, 'Tina, how are you living?' '' said Ms. Williams, who has cobbled together the semblance of a kitchen with a microwave, a minirefrigerator and an electric frying pan.
 ''I say, 'I'm living on God's grace and mercy,' '' said Ms. Williams, who had dreamed of passing on her first home, bought in 2001, to her two grown daughters.
 ''My daughter says I'm living in a hole in the wall,'' she said. ''But I can eat every day. I have a roof over my head. When I found this place, I started shouting for joy.''
 Nationally, rents have increased about 11 percent since 2005, when homeownership rates started to decline, though that growth is slowing, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 2005, vacancy rates for rental properties in Cleveland hovered around 10 percent, according to the Northeast Ohio Apartment Association, which represents landlords in the Cleveland area. Today, the rate stands at 5.2 percent.
 Christopher E. Smythe, the association's president, said the collapse of the housing market had improved the economic climate. 
 ''Our apartment traffic is up, people are renting again and occupancies are up,'' he said in a letter to members this year.
 In other places, like Los Angeles, the slump in the housing market has begun to push up vacancies as condominiums are converted into rentals, according to Raphael Bostic, the associate director at the Lusk Center for Real Estate at the University of Southern California.
 But those new apartments are often out of reach of struggling families. And since many owners of rental properties are also going into default, the foreclosure wave has resulted in fierce competition for affordable apartments in some cities. 
 In Rhode Island, 41 percent of the state's foreclosed properties are multifamily dwellings, which would most likely have housed tenants, a recent study by the National Low Income Housing Coalition concluded.
 ''We're seeing the displacement of tenants at the same time that we're seeing former homeowners enter the rental market,'' said Raymond Neirinckx, a coordinator at the Rhode Island Housing Resources Commission, which handles housing policy.
 Meanwhile, some people who have lost their homes find that landlords view them with suspicion. 
 Steve Allen, 51, a Vietnam veteran in Seattle, was repeatedly rejected when he and his wife, Lesa, started searching for an apartment this month. Some apartment managers said no because they had lost their home to foreclosure. Others said their credit scores were too low.
 Debbie Suber, 46, who lost her home in Cleveland last year, said she and her husband were lucky to find a landlord who was willing to consider their income, not their credit scores. ''By the grace of God, that's why I have a place,'' she said. 
 Times are also tough for renters hoping to buy. Banks have tightened mortgage standards, insisting on good credit scores, proof of income and sizable down payments. Lez Trujillo, the national field director for Acorn Housing, a nonprofit group that helps lower-income families get mortgages, said a third of their applicants ended up with houses just a few years ago. Now, it is one in 10, she said. 
 Barbara O'Leary-Hatfield-Liberace, a 68-year-old retiree and an Acorn member, encountered such difficulties when she and some friends decided to buy a $340,000 house in Seattle.
 The mortgage company they consulted said they needed to clean up their credit and come up with a $45,000 down payment, money they do not have.
 So on most nights, when Ms. O'Leary-Hatfield-Liberace thinks about her dream house, she reaches for the rosary that she keeps under her pillow. 
 ''I pray a lot and hope to heck we'll win the Lotto,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Debbie Suber at the house in Cleveland she and her husband had for 11 years. After foreclosure, they now rent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPH: RENTAL AGREEMENTS: After falling for much of the last decade, the percentage of households that rent has risen sharply since 2005. (Source: Census Bureau)
 Graph showing the rise in renters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); TRENDS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CENSUS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2008



540 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Likely to End Term With Iran Issue Unsettled

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Sophia Kishkovsky contributed reporting from Moscow.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For more than five years now, President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have made clear that they did not want to leave office with Iran any closer to possessing nuclear weapons than when they took office.
 ''The nations of the world must not permit the Iranian regime to gain nuclear weapons,'' Mr. Bush said in February 2006. The United States is prepared to use its naval power ''to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating this region,'' Mr. Cheney said in 2007 from a Navy carrier in the Persian Gulf.
 But with seven months left in this administration, Iran appears ascendant, its political and economic influence growing, its historic foes in Iraq and Afghanistan weakened, and its nuclear program continuing to move forward. So the question now is: Are Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney resigned to leaving Iran more powerful than they found it when they came to office? 
 The evidence is mixed. For all the talk to the contrary, Bush administration officials appear to have concluded that diplomatic efforts to rein in Iran's nuclear ambitions will not yield any breakthroughs this year. 
 Despite a recent flurry of efforts to tighten sanctions on Iran, top officials on both sides of the Atlantic, in recent interviews, had no expectations that Iran's rulers would make any concessions, particularly on the critical issue of suspending the enrichment of uranium, while Mr. Bush remained in office.
 On the military front, the picture is fuzzier. Two senior administration officials said that barring a move by Israel, which one characterized as ''the wild card'' on the Iranian issue, this administration would not be likely to pursue military strikes against Iranian nuclear targets. 
 Mr. Bush himself seemed to signal as much at the start of his European tour last week in Slovenia, when he said of Iran that he expected to ''leave behind a multilateral framework to work on this issue,'' a statement that seemed to suggest that military action against Iran may no longer be on the table. 
 But there remains the possibility that Israel could force the hand of the Bush administration, foreign policy analysts and diplomats said. Israel carried out a three-day military exercise this month that American intelligence officials say appeared to have been a rehearsal for a potential strike on nuclear targets in Iran. 
 Israeli officials have tried to put pressure in recent months on the Bush administration to consider such a strike if Iran did not abandon its nuclear program, and the exercise may have been intended as a new signal that Israel might be willing to act alone if the United States did not.
 ''Israel prefers this threat be dealt with peacefully, by dramatically increasing sanctions and maintaining a credible resolve to keep all options on the table,'' said Sallai Meridor, the Israeli ambassador to the United States. ''But time is running out.''
 Iran, he said, ''should understand that under no circumstances will the world allow it to obtain a nuclear capability.''
 Mohamad ElBaradei, director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, told Al Arabiya television that he would quit his job in the event of a military strike on Iran.
 ''It would turn the region into a fireball,'' he said in an interview broadcast Friday, according to Reuters. 
 Israeli officials have expressed fear to the Bush administration that a new administration would take months, if not years, to decide on its approach to Iran. The consensus in the United States and Europe is that Iran is still at least two years away from a nuclear weapon. Israeli officials say they believe the threshold is closer to a year. 
 An Israeli military strike on Iran would almost certainly require American help. For one thing, Pentagon officials say, it would take hundreds of sorties to take out a big swath of Iranian air defense. For another, the United States controls much of the airspace around Iran. Beyond that, Iran would hold the United States accountable for an Israeli strike, and could retaliate against American troops in Iraq.
 In Moscow on Friday, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov urged dialogue rather than confrontation with Iran and said that the United States and Israel had not offered any proof that Iran was pursuing a nuclear weapons program. ''So far we have not seen any,'' Mr. Lavrov said, according to Interfax news agency.
 A trip to Tehran last weekend by European diplomats with a new package of incentives was largely for Iranian public consumption, and to appease Russia and China by appearing to be still trying to woo Iran, European and American diplomats said. 
 But European diplomats have been loath to acknowledge publicly that diplomacy on Iran's nuclear development is in a holding pattern for the next eight months because they fear that Iran will only use that time to make progress on its nuclear program, which Iran says is for peaceful purposes. 
 ''One should not talk about keeping the status quo because that would be dangerous,'' one European diplomat said, speaking on condition of anonymity under diplomatic rules. ''We can't say the clock has stopped and we will begin work again after Jan. 1; that is not a good recipe for success.''
 Administration efforts to convey a sense of urgency about stopping Iran's nuclear program were dealt a blow late last year with the release of a National Intelligence Estimate reporting that Iran had stopped work on a nuclear weapons program in 2003. In recent months, Bush administration officials have tried to walk back from that report, repeating often that Iran's nuclear program remains a threat. 
 Many foreign policy experts are now looking to the next administration for a possible new approach to the standoff with Iran. ''The Europeans all understand that the carrots-and-sticks approach is not working, and the entire Iran diplomatic policy has to be rethought,'' said Vali R. Nasr, an Iran expert at Tufts University. Until a new administration takes over, he said, ''we're stuck in a process where the ball is kicked to the bureaucrats.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said the United States had not proved that Iran was pursuing nuclear weapons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



541 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Obama Cites Attack Ads As a Failing of the System

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Michael Luo, Leslie Wayne and Sarah Wheaton contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama on Friday justified his decision to drop out of the public financing system for the general election by contending that the system fails to account for vast spending by independent groups.
 Mr. Obama cited spending against him by Republican operatives in South Dakota and Tennessee during the primary campaign and said that shadowy groups, known as 527s for the section of the tax code they fall under, can spring up quickly and unleash devastating attacks.
 ''It is going to be very difficult for Republicans to run on their stewardship of the economy or their outstanding foreign policy,'' Mr. Obama said at a fund-raiser here. ''We know what kind of campaign they're going to run. They're going to try to make you afraid. They're going to try to make you afraid of me. 'He's young and inexperienced and he's got a funny name. And did I mention he's black?' '' 
 Mr. Obama added, ''We know the strategy because they've already shown their cards.'' 
 Mr. Obama's fund-raiser, which was expected to draw about 200 donors, had a minimum ticket price of $500 and a maximum donation of $2,300, the legal limit for individual donations.
 Before the fund-raiser, Mr. Obama held a news conference on the banks of the St. Johns River. He said that his campaign, by raising the bulk of its money in small donations, was in keeping with the reformist spirit of the public financing rules, which were meant to reduce the influence of big money in politics. He asserted that he did not take money from political action committees or currently registered lobbyists and thus was immune to the influence of large donors.
 Mr. Obama said he would work to overhaul the political finance system -- after he wins the election.
 ''My commitment to fixing the system remains,'' he said, ''but in this campaign, it's my belief that what we've built is something that frees ourselves from special interests and allows us to run an effective campaign as well.''
 The McCain campaign kept up, for a second day, its attacks on Mr. Obama's decision to opt out of the public financing system, announced on Thursday. In a memorandum from Steve Schmidt, Mr. McCain's senior strategist, that was distributed to reporters, the campaign accused Mr. Obama of a cynical reversal on earlier pledges to accept public financing for his campaign.
 It cited several instances in which Mr. Obama had supported the public finance system and vowed to work within it. ''Yet in the end Barack Obama's words were empty and he decided to break his pledge to accept public financing in the general election,'' Mr. Schmidt wrote.
 Mr. McCain, who was in Ottawa on Friday to speak on the economy, refused to discuss Mr. Obama's decision to forgo public financing.
 Mr. Obama has been particularly critical of 527 groups. One such group, Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, initiated a damaging campaign against Senator John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee.
 Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain have asked such groups to stay out of this election, and on Friday one Democratic-leaning organization complied. MoveOn.org announced that it was dismantling its 527 group, the MoveOn Voter Fund, in response to Mr. Obama's candidacy. 
 The fund, which was able to take in unlimited donations, has been essentially dormant since 2004, when it brought in $20 million of the group's $50 million haul. MoveOn will rely instead on its political action committee, MoveOn Political Action, which can take in up to $5,000 from an individual. 
 Eli Pariser, MoveOn's executive director, said the organization had been discussing the move for several months and made a final decision on Thursday amid discussions among board members and the staff.
 ''This is a big bet on small donors together being able to beat back an effort financed by large donors,'' Mr. Pariser said.
 Meanwhile, Mr. McCain's campaign showed strength in raising money for the primary campaign, which it can continue to do until he is officially declared the Republican nominee. According to federal campaign finance reports filed on Friday, the McCain campaign raised $21.8 million in May, which is an increase from $18.5 million in April and from $15.4 million in March. 
 But, while the overall numbers have increased, the source of Mr. McCain's money has shifted, indicating some trouble in raising cash. Of the $21.8 million raised, a total of $16.5 million came from individual donations. Meanwhile, $4.2 million of Mr. McCain's May receipts came from three joint fund-raising dinners held by the party on his behalf. 
 On the bright side, Mr. McCain's cash situation improved in May. He ended the month with $31.6 million in cash, about $10 million more than he had at the beginning of the month. 
 The Obama campaign's report said that it raised $21.9 million in May, and that it had $43.1 million in cash on hand at the end of May.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LOBBYING (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TAX LAW (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



542 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: McCain Pushes Nafta in Visit to Canada as Obama, Again, Defends His View

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and JOHN M. BRODER; Michael Cooper reported from Ottawa, and John M. Broder from Chicago. Kitty Bennett contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's campaign sent out an e-mail message on Friday highlighting what it called Senator Barack Obama's ''completely mystifying shift'' on the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 The Republican National Committee issued a news release charging that Mr. Obama is ''for free trade but against free trade agreements'' and even released a Web video about Mr. Obama and free trade.
 Mr. McCain's campaign plane, full of reporters, made an unusual foray past the battleground states here to Canada, where Mr. McCain gave a speech to the Economic Club of Canada in which he was applauded for saying that ''for all the successes of Nafta, we have to defend it without equivocation in political debate.'' 
 But throughout the visit here Mr. McCain did not refer to Mr. Obama by name and insisted the trip had ''nothing to do'' with the presidential campaign. Democrats charged that assistance the campaign received from the United States ambassador to Canada might have violated the federal law that forbids certain government employees to engage in partisan politics; the McCain campaign denied any wrongdoing, saying that the trip was not political and that the campaign had raised no money in Canada.
 Mr. McCain demurred at campaign-related questions from Canadian and American reporters at a news conference, saying that answering them ''would then lend a political bent to this visit.''
 The backdrop to the unusual trip was a simmering debate that Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has been waging with Mr. Obama, his all-but-certain Democratic rival. The debate centers on Nafta, but it is really about much more than tariffs and treaties.
 The McCain campaign is using the issue of free trade in part to appeal to economic conservatives who have sometimes been wary of him, but more to question Mr. Obama's candor after he has sent shifting signals about trade in the past year.
 Mr. Obama and the Democrats are using the issue to question Mr. McCain's empathy, and support, for struggling working people, especially in the Rust Belt, where many workers blame free trade for the closing of factories and the loss of jobs.
 Free trade became a major issue in the Democratic primaries, when all the major candidates, courting votes in Rust Belt states and the support of unions that oppose free trade agreements, took a sharply critical view of free trade agreements. Mr. Obama said that he would favor an ''opt-out'' clause that would allow the United States to walk away from the deal if better labor and environmental standards could not be negotiated.
 Mr. McCain alluded to that in his speech here. ''Demanding unilateral changes and threatening to abrogate an agreement that has increased trade and prosperity is nothing more than retreating behind protectionist walls,'' he said.
 A political sensation -- and minor international incident -- erupted during the Democratic primary when a leaked memorandum surfaced in which a Canadian consular officer wrote that a senior Obama adviser had assured him that Mr. Obama's protectionist stand on the campaign trail was ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.'' The Obama campaign denied that that had been its message to the Canadians.
 In a recent interview with Fortune magazine, Mr. Obama, who has been sharply critical of Nafta for doing too little to protect workers or the environment, was quoted as saying, ''Sometimes during campaigns the rhetoric gets overheated and amplified.'' 
 Speaking at a fund-raising event in Jacksonville, Fla., late Friday, Mr. Obama insisted that he had been ''entirely consistent'' on Nafta, repeating that he would seek to have it renegotiated because it does not enforce labor or environmental standards.
 He also took a shot at Mr. McCain, noting, ''It's interesting to me that he chose to talk about trade in Canada rather than in Ohio or Michigan.''
 In a memorandum titled ''Words Matter,'' Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to the McCain campaign, linked Mr. Obama's shifting tone on free trade to his decision not to participate in public financing after saying that he would. ''As we scrutinize Barack Obama's words,'' Mr. Schmidt wrote, ''it is increasingly difficult for those of us with the responsibility of following this year's election closely to discern what Obama truly believes at his core on the issues of great importance to the American people.''
 A senior economic adviser to Mr. Obama said the senator's position on Nafta was ''exactly'' the same as it was during the primaries. He said Mr. Obama would renegotiate the pact to strengthen provisions for workers and the environment in all countries. Asked about Mr. Obama's support of the opt-out clause, the adviser said that ''he wanted all options on the table.'' The Obama campaign pushed back with a conference call in which several Democratic officials, including Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, attacked Mr. McCain's trade policies.
 Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat, was asked whether Mr. Obama, if elected, would have the United States withdraw from Nafta if he were not satisfied with any renegotiated deal. ''That's just not going to happen,'' he said. ''It's beyond the realm of any real possibility that people are going to stomp away from the table and one of the countries is going to walk away from Nafta.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain of Arizona said his trip to Canada on Friday, in which he discussed Nafta, was without ''political bent.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM HANSON/CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (60%); INTERNET VIDEO (56%); CLOSINGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



543 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2395 words

HEADLINE: Big Gains for Iraq Security, but Questions Linger

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARRELL and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Stephen Farrell reported from Baghdad and Basra, and Richard A. Oppel Jr. from Baghdad. Reporting was contributed by Andrew Kramer from Mosul, Mohammed Husain, Suadad al-Salhy, Anwar J. Ali, Riyadh Muhammad, Ali Hameed, Mudhafer al-Husaini, Tareq Maher and Maha Malik from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Baghdad, Basra, Mosul and Falluja.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
What's going right? And can it last?
 Violence in all of Iraq is the lowest since March 2004. The two largest cities, Baghdad and Basra, are calmer than they have been for years. The third largest, Mosul, is in the midst of a major security operation. On Thursday, Iraqi forces swept unopposed through the southern city of Amara, which has been controlled by Shiite militias. There is a sense that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's government has more political traction than any of its predecessors. 
 Consider the latest caricatures of Mr. Maliki put up on posters by the followers of Moktada al-Sadr, the fiery cleric who commands deep loyalty among poor Shiites. They show the prime minister's face split in two -- half his own, half Saddam Hussein's. The comparison is, of course, intended as a searing criticism. But only three months ago the same Sadr City pamphleteers were lampooning Mr. Maliki as half-man, half-parrot, merely echoing the words of his more powerful Shiite and American backers. It is a notable swing from mocking an opponent perceived to be weak to denouncing one feared to be strong. 
 For Hatem al-Bachary, a Basra businessman, the turnabout has been ''a miracle,'' the first tentative signs of a normal life. 
 ''I don't think the militias have disappeared, and maybe there are sleeper cells which will try to revive themselves again,'' he said. ''But the first time they try to come back they will have to show themselves, and the government, army and police are doing very well.''
 While the increase in American troops and their support behind the scenes in the recent operations has helped tamp down the violence, there are signs that both the Iraqi security forces and the Iraqi government are making strides. There are simply more Iraqi troops for the government to deploy, partly because fewer are needed to fight the Sunni insurgents, who have defected to the Sunni Awakening movement. They are paid to keep the peace.
 Mr. Maliki's moves against Shiite militias have built some trust with wary Sunnis, offering the potential for political reconciliation. High oil prices are filling Iraqi government coffers. But even these successes contain the seeds of vulnerability. The government victories in Basra, Sadr City and Amara were essentially negotiated, so the militias are lying low but undefeated and seething with resentment. Mr. Maliki may be raising expectations among Sunnis that he cannot fulfill, and the Sunni Awakening forces in many cases are loyal to their American paymasters, not the Shiite government. Restive Iraqis want to see the government spend money to improve services. Attacks like the bombing that killed 63 people in Baghdad's Huriya neighborhood on Tuesday showed that opponents can continue to inflict carnage. 
 Perhaps most worrisome, more than five years after the American invasion, which knocked Mr. Hussein from power but set off great chaos, Iraq still lacks the formal rules to divide the power and spoils of an oil-rich nation among ethnic, religious and tribal groups and unite them under one stable idea of Iraq. The improvements are fragile. 
 The changes are already affecting Iraq's complicated relationship with America. In the presidential campaign, a debate is rising about whether the quiet means American soldiers can leave. 
 Iraqi Officials Gain Confidence
 American military commanders are seeing a new confidence among Iraqi leaders. They said they believed that the success of the recent military operations had played a role in the Iraqi government's firm rebuff of American negotiators over a new long-term security pact to govern the United States military presence after the end of this year.
 ''They are feeling very strong right now, after Basra, Mosul and Sadr City,'' said one senior American official. 
 The most obvious but often overlooked reason for the recent military success has been an increase in the number of trained Iraqi troops. 
 The quality of the recruits and leadership has often been poor, even in recent months. In Baghdad's Sadr City, one Iraqi company abandoned its position in April, forcing American and Iraqi commanders to fill the gap with hastily summoned reinforcements. In Basra, more than 1,000 recently qualified soldiers deserted rather than obey orders to fight against Mr. Sadr's Mahdi Army. One senior Iraqi government official conceded that the deserters simply ''felt that the other side was too strong.''
 But sheer numbers have helped to overcome the shortcomings. After the embarrassing setback in Basra, Mr. Maliki was able to pull units from elsewhere to provide reinforcements and saturate the city with checkpoints and patrols, restoring a measure of order after years of domination by Islamist militias and oil-smuggling mafias.
 American officials said 50,000 members of Iraqi security forces took part in the Basra campaign, 45,000 in Mosul, and 10,000 in Sadr City -- troops that would not have been available to Mr. Maliki's predecessors. The Iraqis had by far the largest numbers of troops, although American and other coalition troops provided crucial air power, reconnaissance, logistics, medical support and even expertise in psychological operations.
 One key source of that manpower has been training: Over the past year the Iraqi Army has added 52,000 soldiers; the Iraqi police and the national police have added 59,000; and Iraq special operations forces have added 1,400 troops, Lt. Gen. James M. Dubik, chief of the American security training and equipping mission, said last month. Yet another reason was that many troops were not tied down fighting Sunni insurgents in places like Anbar Province. That is thanks to the Sunni Awakening, and a related program in which the American military has paid thousands of former insurgents and militia fighters and made them neighborhood guards. 
 ''Our successes reduced the pressure on the Iraqi security forces by more than 50 percent,'' said Sheik Hussain Abaid, the leader of one such pro-American group south of Baghdad.
 Ali Hatem al-Suleiman, an Awakening leader in Anbar, said an entire Army regiment of Anbari tribesmen was sent to fight in Mosul, while a division based in Anbar was rushed to Basra after commanders decided that a more stable security situation in Anbar meant the troops could be freed to fight elsewhere. Even Shiite government officials, long suspicious of the Awakening because it employs insurgents responsible for the deaths of Shiites, agreed. ''Before, there was a security void in their areas, but they were able to fill it,'' said Ali Adeeb, a senior official in the Dawa party and a close ally of Mr. Maliki.
 Defining a Military Victory
 But the government's successes in Basra and Sadr City were not so much victories as heavy fighting followed by truces that allowed the militias to melt away with their weapons. ''We may have wasted an opportunity in Basra to kill those that needed to be killed,'' said one American defense official, who would speak candidly about the issue only if he was granted anonymity.
 And in Mosul, the celebrations over the performance of the Iraqis who fought there have glossed over the tremendous -- but hidden -- role played by American Special Operations forces to clear out the toughest enemy fighters before the Iraqi soldiers arrived in full. ''It is underreported how much the secret guys did to set the conditions for the Iraqi Army to go in and do what they did,'' the official said. 
 What remains to be seen is whether the Iraqi government can capitalize on the operational successes with concrete steps that improve the lives of people in the three areas, like basic municipal services and economic opportunities. ''The fear is unrealistic expectations,'' the American defense official said. ''Services do take time.''
 Failure to follow through could wipe out many of the gains in places like Hayaniya, one of Basra's most deprived areas and a Sadrist stronghold, where residents already grumble that they have seen little evidence of improvement. ''They said they will repair schools and roads -- but when and where?'' said Ali Alwan, 45. ''It is only talk. We suffered during the military operation, but what is the reward?'' Mr. Maliki's operations against fellow Shiites in Basra and Sadr City have bought at least temporary political good will from Sunnis who long saw his Shiite-dominated government as the enemy. Interviews with three dozen Sunni merchants, academics, teachers, laborers, government officials and office workers in former insurgent strongholds like Falluja, Tikrit, and Baghdad's Adhamiya, Amiriya and Fadhil neighborhoods suggested that the prime minister had gained some ground with a group whose loyalty is essential in building a unified and stable state.
 Abdul Hadi Jasim, a barber from Adhamiya, said, ''Now, after one of the biggest Shiite militias that ravaged Basra was targeted, I think there is a sense of justice and fairness.'' But old suspicions linger, and Sunnis remember the slaughter inflicted by Shiite militias from 2004 to 2007, and how Shiite death squads were protected by Iraqi security forces. In addition to the Mahdi Army, many Sunnis fear the Badr organization, the armed wing of the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, a close ally of Mr. Maliki's Dawa Party. Badr forces dominate some Iraqi security force units.
 ''Maliki's war was a selective one,'' says Falah Muhammad Abdullah, 46, an engineer from Falluja. ''Why does Maliki's government hunt down the Mahdi militia while it neglects Badr?''
 Sunni Skepticism Remains
 Many Sunnis are convinced that Mr. Maliki is trying to serve other masters: Iran, the Americans, or his own Dawa Party and the Islamic Supreme Council. Both face a serious challenge from the Sadrists in provincial elections later this year.
 Mowafaq Abu Omar, a 52-year-old street merchant in Adhamiya, voiced a common suspicion -- that the true aims of the Basra operation were to seize control of Iraq's only significant port and to advance the creation of a large, autonomous and oil-rich Shiite super-province in the south. 
 There is also less enthusiasm for the recent operation in western Mosul, which is largely Sunni. Eman al-Hayali, a teacher in Amiriya, praised Mr. Maliki for weakening Mr. Sadr's Mahdi Army but said she feared the Mosul operation was intended to satisfy the Maliki government's patrons in Iran and telegraph a message to Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad: ''Do not worry, your excellency, we are also killing Sunnis.' ''
 With such suspicions just below the surface, stability would be jeopardized if former insurgents serving in the Awakening forces come to believe that they are being used by the Shiite-led government while getting little in return.
 ''We are pleased with the government only regarding the war against the Shiite militias,'' says Khalid al-Summaraie, a Sunni militia leader in Baghdad's Fadhil neighborhood. He added pointedly, ''They haven't done anything for us that will give us a better standard of living.''
 Another important factor buoying Mr. Maliki has been the sharp rise in oil prices, which, among other things, has allowed the Iraqi central bank to buy back its currency at a feverish pace, forcing the value of the Iraqi dinar higher and limiting increases in consumer prices. Driven by higher food costs, inflation stood last month at the rate of 16 percent, up from 11 percent in January. 
 But that rate might be a good deal higher without the central bank's aggressive policies. The bank spends $1 billion to $1.5 billion every month in oil revenue to buy Iraqi dinars on the open market, said Mudher M. Salih Kasim, senior adviser to the bank. This is the main lever for controlling consumer prices, said Mr. Kasim, who noted that the value of the dinar had risen about 20 percent against the dollar. An oil price crash, he added, would be ''a disaster.''
 The government is also trying to funnel money to placate Iraqis who endured the military operations in Sadr City, Mosul and Basra and cement their loyalty. Tahseen al-Sheikhly, a spokesman for the Baghdad security plan, said $100 million would go to Sadr City to upgrade economic and social conditions there in the wake of the two-month military operation, which left buildings shattered and markets destroyed. Dr. Safaa al-Deen al-Safi, who is charged with carrying out development and reconstruction activities, said another $100 million would be spent on areas like health and education.
 Reversible Gains
 The anti-government and anti-occupation forces have also stumbled. The Islamist Sunni insurgents alienated many Iraqis with a trail of blood and bans on alcohol and smoking. And as attacks on Shiite areas by Sunni insurgents dropped, Shiites who had looked to the Mahdi Army for self-defense were less willing to put up with abuses. 
 But the improvements in Iraq face an array of destabilizing provincial, national and regional forces. The Sunni insurgency -- now in many places operating as pro-American Awakening groups -- continues to wait to see whether the government makes good on promises of jobs and a less sectarian administration of security and public services and infrastructure. 
 The Sadrists remain powerful and may not forgive what many consider a betrayal by Mr. Maliki, who could not have become prime minister two years ago without their blessing. Mohanned al-Gharrawi, a senior Sadrist cleric in Baghdad, said, ''We feel like a bridge that they used to reach their aims and goals, and then they left us behind.''
 Despite their newfound confidence, some senior Iraqi officials close to Mr. Maliki said that without an American military safety net they are vulnerable to threats from outside and inside their borders. One important but less-noticed element of the security negotiations has been Iraq's effort to extract an American pledge to defend the government against foreign or domestic aggression. Mr. Adeeb, the top Maliki adviser, said officials wanted the Americans to protect the Iraqi government against anything the government viewed as a threat -- not just what the Americans saw as a threat. 
 ''Our political system is weak, the terrorists and former regime members are sparing no effort to overthrow the system, and neighboring countries have their own ambitions,'' Mr. Adeeb said. ''Our army is not qualified to defend Iraq yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With improved security, Iraqis crowded a market in Basra. The city, Iraq's second largest, had been controlled by Shiite militias. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Baghdad residents in Abu Niwas Street park on the Tigris River. Violence in all of Iraq is the lowest since March 2004, but the improvements are fragile. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT NICKELSBERG/GETTY IMAGES, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A7)
BASRA: Iraqi soldiers, inside a warehouse compound, repelled several attacks on the site by the Mahdi Army, the militia of the cleric Moktada al-Sadr
SADR CITY: Mr. Sadr's supporters during a rally. The militias in Iraq's three major cities are lying low but undefeated and seething with resentment
MOSUL: An Iraqi soldier inside Combat Outpost Rabiy in western Mosul, a Sunni insurgent area now under the control of Iraqi and American forces. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A7) MAP: The government victories in Basra, Baghdad's Sadr City district and Amara were essentially negotiated. (pg. A7)
 Map of Baghdad in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BOMBINGS (73%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



544 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 657 words

PERSON: Hewitt D. Crane 

HEADLINE: Hewitt D. Crane, 81, Early Computer Engineer

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Hewitt D. Crane, who was instrumental in the design and construction of the first commercial computer to automate checking accounts, died on Tuesday at his home in Portola Valley, Calif., not far from Ridge Vineyards, which he helped found. He was 81.
 The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Suzanne Crane, his wife. 
 Mr. Crane, an electrical engineer, had a career that traced the arc of the early computing industry, starting in 1949 with a job at I.B.M.'s headquarters in New York City, where he was involved in the maintenance of the Selective Sequence Electronic Calculator, an early I.B.M. computer composed of 13,000 vacuum tubes and 25,000 relays.
 In 1952 he went to work at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., where he participated in a modification of the von Neumann computer, or Johniac, named for its inventor, the mathematician John von Neumann. Working with a team assembled by Mr. von Neumann, Mr. Crane's first task was to redesign the input-output system to accommodate more modern I.B.M. punch-card technology.
 In 1955 he moved briefly to the David Sarnoff Research Laboratory, where he worked on the design of magnetic-core memories, which were then a promising data-storage technology. His work there was interrupted by an urgent request for his assistance at the Stanford Research Institute (later renamed SRI International), which was building a machine for the Bank of America to automate its checking operations. Amid a postwar economic boom, the bank was adding 23,000 accounts each month, and its human-powered check-processing system was groaning under the load.
 After successfully completing the system, ERMA, for Electronic Recording Machine, Accounting, Mr. Crane looked for new projects to pursue and became interested in magnetic computing, a promising solid-state electronics technology that would eventually be displaced by the emergence of silicon-based semiconductor microelectronics. 
 By 1956, however, magnetic-core memories had become popular among computer designers, and Mr. Crane pursued the idea of an all-magnetic computer, presenting the idea at the Fall Joint Computer Conference in 1959. The technology was later licensed to the Ampex Corporation and used primarily by the New York City subway system and in other railroad switching operations.
 During the late 1950s, a young computer engineer, Douglas C. Engelbart, joined Mr. Crane's research team, and Mr. Crane helped back his ideas in research on augmenting human intelligence. Mr. Engelbart went on to invent the computer mouse and some of the other technologies that underlie the modern personal computer and the Internet.
 Mr. Crane remained at SRI for the rest of his professional career, pursuing ideas like eye tracking and optical character recognition, which led to the spinoff of the Communication Intelligence Corporation in 1981. A research group he ran in the field of voice recognition led to the creation of the Nuance Communications, one of the leading voice-recognition companies.
 Hewitt David Crane was born in Jersey City to Philip and Lottie Cohen. He studied at New York University and received his undergraduate degree from Columbia. He received a Ph.D. in electrical engineering at Stanford University. 
 Mr. Crane is survived by his wife, Suzanne, and three sons, Russell, of Santa Barbara, Calif., Doug, of Palo Alto, Calif., and Dan, of Saratoga, Calif.
 With three SRI engineers and their families, Mr. Crane bought land in the foothills behind Stanford University in 1959 and began a winery on the property a short time later. Soon afterward one of the engineers, Dave Bennion, left the research center to become the full-time manager of the wine business. The families sold the winery in 1986.
 It has maintained its reputation, and in 2006, two Ridge wines placed first in the 30th anniversary celebration of the Paris wine competition known as the Judgment of Paris. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on June 21 about Hewitt D. Crane, an early computer engineer, misidentified the company to which his all-magnetic computer was licensed. It was Aircraft Marine Products Inc., known as AMP -- not the Ampex Corporation. A reader pointed out the error in an e-mail message on Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hewitt D. Crane in 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); VOICE RECOGNITION (73%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); SEMICONDUCTORS (62%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (61%); OPTICAL CHARACTER RECOGNITION (60%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (57%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (50%)

COMPANY: AMPEX CORP (63%); COMMUNICATION INTELLIGENCE CORP (60%); SRI INTERNATIONAL (54%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (63%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (60%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2008



545 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: For Overseas Shares, The Sure Bet Is Over

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, foreign stock markets seemed to be composed of cast iron and coated with Teflon. Today, they behave as though they are made of much brittler materials.
 Declines in many overseas markets have been greater than those in the United States. That poor performance, as well as a sense that Europe and Asia may be approaching a top of the economic cycle while America may be closer to a bottom, is leading global investment advisers to be more selective.
 ''We think international stocks are reasonably priced, but we think the environment has deteriorated,'' said Simon Hallett, who runs portfolios for Harding, Loevner Management. ''The last few months are a better guide to what's going to happen than the previous few years.'' 
 Some professional investors are avoiding sectors that are priced as if not even the sky is the limit -- commodity producers and suppliers of other industrial materials, for example. They say they are finding value instead in segments of the economy like banking and consumer staples.
 Another approach is to look for companies, in any business, that can withstand the impact of slower growth, or are weak enough to make good restructuring plays.
 Thomas Mengel, manager of the Ivy International Growth fund, is among those who have grown wary of commodities. Making his case for lightening up on the sector, he turned to geometry, not economics. ''It's a great secular trend, but short term we're getting a little scared because the rally looks parabolic to us,'' he said.
 Mr. Mengel has been trimming positions in mining companies and putting the proceeds to work in sectors that feature ''more stable earnings, less volatility and less economic sensitivity.''
 His preferred stocks are concentrated in Europe and include producers of consumer staples, like Nestle, the Swiss food company, and Reckitt Benckiser, the British supplier of household goods.
 He also likes utilities, which he considers a safer way than oil and gas companies to play the energy boom. Among his selections are Fortum in Finland, the German company E.ON and National Grid, which controls electricity distribution in Britain.
 Emphasizing the need for safety, Mr. Mengel warned that the global economy ''is walking a tightrope.''
 Mr. Hallett at Harding, Loevner has been preparing for turbulent conditions by investing in companies that he expects to maintain profit margins, even if the costs of commodities and other raw materials continue to rise and consumer spending remains sluggish.
 He prefers enterprises that operate in nooks and crannies within broader sectors, most notably health care, which he expects to thrive as the population ages and, gruesome as it may sound, needs more spare parts.
 He recommended three Swiss companies: Roche, the drug maker; Alcon, the provider of eye-care products; and Nobel Biocare, a maker of dental implants. He also suggests Cochlear, an Australian business that makes ear implants.
 ''What we like in this environment are companies with pricing power and strong competitive positions,'' Mr. Hallett said. ''You can either be the low-cost guy and compete on price, or you can find a niche and fill it.''
 Explaining his affinity for this particular niche, he said: ''We're all living longer and starting to fall apart. The habits of youth are catching up with us as we live longer.''
 The once-emerging economies of Asia are not as young as they used to be, either, but they are hardly on the verge of collapse. Their new maturity has provided healthy diversification, making them less dependent on exports to the West, said Alexander Muromcew, a manager of Asia portfolios for TIAA-CREF. But the region is not immune to global weakness, and he is adjusting his portfolios accordingly.
 ''I'm cautious,'' he said. ''I still think we're going to see continued weak numbers from the U.S. consumer, and exports are still a key part of economic growth'' in Asia.
 He is concentrating on sectors that should benefit from domestic demand. He especially likes communication companies, including Advanced Information Services, a provider of mobile phone service in Thailand, and the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company. He finds them havens in threatening times.
 ''You can sit back, collect a 6 to 7 percent dividend yield and sleep well at night,'' Mr. Muromcew said.
 HIS other favored group may make some investors toss and turn. He likes commodity producers, even after their enormous rally, which he expects to be sustained by Asia's industrial boom, which so far has been relentless.
 Examples are BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, two iron ore miners, and two Japanese conglomerates with large metals operations, Mitsui & Company and the Mitsubishi Corporation.
 Commodities are too popular and expensive for Sarah Ketterer, co-manager of the Causeway Global Value fund. She prefers recently abandoned banking stocks, especially in Britain, where they are very cheap relative to earnings and the value of their net assets.
 ''People are petrified of investing in the most undervalued areas,'' Ms. Ketterer said, but added that she was ''highly confident that in two years these banks will be trading at extremely higher valuations.''
 Her top pick in the sector is HBOS, the British mortgage lender.
 Her other selections are generated from the inside out. She looks for companies -- in any industry and whatever the economic backdrop -- that are putting into effect extreme makeovers to increase efficiency, like the conglomerates Siemens in Germany and Royal Philips Electronics in the Netherlands.
 She conceded that many people view the two, as well as many foreign companies, as serial revampers, continually overhauling their activities but never quite getting the job done.
 But for many foreign businesses, the potential for enhancing productivity and unlocking value has never been greater, she said.
 ''When you get to the grass-roots level and look at these companies, you see a new urgency among managements,'' Ms. Ketterer said. ''There's no complacency any longer. They're running for their lives, worried that some company in the developing world will put them out of business.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philippine Long Distance Telephone is among the overseas companies that could benefit from strengthening demand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL RAVELO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); MINES & MINING (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%)

COMPANY: E.ON SE (81%); NOBEL BIOCARE HOLDING AG (53%); NESTLE SA (53%); RECKITT BENCKISER GROUP PLC (53%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (52%)

TICKER: EOAN (FRA) (81%); EOAN (BIT) (81%); NOBN (SWX) (53%); NESN (SWX) (53%); RB (LSE) (53%); NGG (NYSE) (52%); NG (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (81%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (81%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (53%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); FINLAND (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



546 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Keep the Rejection Letters

BYLINE: By HAMID MOGHADAM; as told to PATRICIA R. OLSEN. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I WAS born in Iran and attended a boarding school in Switzerland when I was 13. At 16, I enrolled in M.I.T. and graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in engineering. Afterward, I went to Stanford business school. I graduated in 1980.
 My plans were to return home and to work, but the revolution had started. It was clear that because I was modern, Western-educated and secular, I could not be successful there. I was not finding success here, either. The American Embassy employees had been taken hostage and Iran was in the news every day. Also, the United States was in a recession. 
 I sent my resume to more than 30 companies, and got nothing but rejections. I had no money, and my family was scattered around the globe. I had a student visa and was not yet an American citizen. I went to work for one of my professors at Stanford who had started one of the early companies in real estate investment management. He trusted my ability and my commitment, and I've always appreciated that. But I wanted to be an entrepreneur.
 My father had been in real estate in Iran, and we had been very close. As a kid, I would ride around with him when he visited developments. The smell of dirt and concrete appealed to me. 
 Just as I was starting college, my father passed away, which was traumatic. I had to learn to count on myself. Then the frustrating job search made me want to be independent.
 In 1983, when I was 26, I started AMB with two partners, an assistant and a couple of hundred feet of office space in San Francisco. We had no capital and no business. We obtained a line of credit and slowly but surely attracted advisory clients. None of us took a salary for the first year, but we managed our expenses and were profitable from Day 1. We worked like crazy.
 We now have 26 offices around the world. When I visit them in Europe or Asia or Latin America, I'm probably the staff's worst nightmare. It's a whirlwind couple of weeks. I have a lot of energy. Often I'm the first one down to the hotel lobby in the morning. Occasionally I've had to call a colleague who has overslept. 
 In 1997, we consolidated several investment funds we were managing into a private company and took the business public. That move set the stage for our global expansion. If I had it to do over, I would have gone global more quickly. I also would have taken more risk along the way.
 In 2006, we developed a distribution center in Osaka, Japan, that is about a million square feet and leased it before completing construction. Our tenant pulled out days before the building was to open. We had to scramble to get new tenants for this massive building in a short time, but we did it. In the end we did well on the investment.
 I kept the rejection letters I got when I was applying for jobs as a recent graduate. One investment bank that had turned me down was our lead underwriter when we went public. The company was host for a party to celebrate the closing. Everyone was toasting one another and giving speeches. 
 When my turn came, I told everyone to read what was under their plates. They found a laminated copy of the rejection letter their bank had sent me 17 years earlier. We had a good laugh.
 If you visit our headquarters in San Francisco, you'll find me sitting in a cubicle at the same kind of desk everyone else has; it's a statement about our culture. 
 I've also kept all the equity I've ever had in AMB. Even when I've exercised options, I've bought stock with the proceeds. I'm a big believer in being aligned with shareholders.
 I own a vineyard where we grow olives and grapes as a hobby. My son named the olive oil Olive Creek after the creek on the property. We give it away as gifts, which my friends appreciate. They'd be upset if I ever sold the property. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HAMID MOGHADAM 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LOBBYING (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); SWITZERLAND (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); ASIA (73%); LATIN AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



547 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: For a Good Retirement, Find Work. Good Luck.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Bill Neugent, an engineer in McLean, Va., is doing his bit to ease the looming generational financial squeeze as the nation's 75 million baby boomers begin to retire. He's working longer. 
 Mr. Neugent, 62, plans to work full time until he is 65 and then part time for the Mitre Corporation, a federal research contractor that encourages older workers to stay on.
 There are, it seems, too few such workers and employers. The average retirement age for men now is 63 and for women 62. But the emphatic conclusion of recent research into retirement policy and labor markets is that working another two or three years would have a surprisingly powerful impact on the retirement living standards of millions of boomers and on the economy. 
 The economic gains, according to a report published this month by the McKinsey Global Institute, a research group, would include increased household savings, higher tax collections and a reduction of the fiscal strain on Social Security and Medicare; together, that would add an estimated $13 trillion to the economy by 2025, or about a year's total output of goods and services today. 
 ''It's the only answer, but don't count on the story turning out that way,'' said Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College and co-author, with Steven A. Sass, of the book ''Working Longer: The Solution to the Retirement Income Challenge'' (Brookings Institution Press). ''It's going to take a lot of education and changes in policy and attitudes.''
 The biggest obstacle, experts say, is that most companies are reluctant to retain or hire older workers. At the top of the corporate ladder, executive recruiters are routinely told not to seek anyone over 50, notes Peter Cappelli, director of the Center for Human Resources at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. 
 Similar sentiments, Mr. Cappelli said, can be found across the job spectrum. He points to a batch of evidence. In one survey, one-fourth of companies said they were not inclined to hire older workers. In a research experiment a few years ago, thousands of made-up resumes were sent to employers; younger workers who had the same qualifications as older workers were more than 40 percent more likely to be called in for an interview than someone 50 or older. In an industry survey, a majority of technology companies candidly said they would not hire anyone over 40.
 ''The issue of older workers is similar in many ways to the arguments surrounding discrimination against blacks and women in the '60s,'' Mr. Cappelli said. At the time, he noted, it was widely said that the ''market will take care of it,'' since self-interested companies would want to tap a wider pool of workers with varied skills. But ultimately it took anti-discrimination laws and changes in social attitudes to improve job opportunities for women and minorities. 
 Today, the conventional wisdom holds that market forces will soon stimulate demand for older workers. Business executives and consultants talk of a coming shortage of skilled employees as boomers begin to retire in droves. This year the oldest boomers, born in 1946, reach the early retirement age of 62, when they become eligible to receive Social Security benefits.
 But the demand, some say, may not surface as expected. It is true that the boomer generation is huge, but the domestic work force will continue to grow without them. Then, there is the impact of labor-saving technological advances and the increasing ability of corporations to tap skilled workers anywhere in the world. ''The demographics don't necessarily support the view that there will be a labor or skills shortage,'' said Laurence Kotlikoff, an economist at Boston University. 
 If there is a failure in the market for older workers, it is the result of ''statistical discrimination,'' according to Joanna Lahey, an economist at Texas A.& M. University. Surveys show that companies are leery of hiring and retaining older workers because of concerns that they are less energetic, less productive, less adaptable and more likely to have outdated skills than younger workers. There are, however, studies that suggest such concerns are overstated or inaccurate.
 Ms. Lahey explains that while some of the perceived drawbacks may apply to a higher percentage of older workers than to younger people, they still are an unfair stereotype of most older workers, who don't fit the description. The effects of such statistical discrimination are personal injustice and economic inefficiency. ''In that sense,'' she said, ''the labor market for older workers is broken.''
 John Shoven, an economist at Stanford University, advanced the notion of ''new age thinking'' as an alternative perspective, in a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper last fall. He suggested taking a fresh look at the implications of age, since people are healthier and live longer now. Using his calculation, he said, a 65-year-old man in 2005 was ''effectively seven years younger than someone of the same age in 1965.''
 So live longer, work longer. It certainly makes economic sense, but often the incentives for companies and workers are not in place. One step, experts say, would be to create a category of ''paid up'' workers. After, say, 40 years of work, they would pay no further contributions to Social Security and Medicare through payroll taxes, nor would companies make contributions, thus trimming the cost of employing older workers.
 Rising health care expenses with age are another issue. For workers 65 to 69, health care costs average 20 percent of wages, compared with 12 percent for workers age 45 to 49, McKinsey estimates. One way to lift that burden from companies would be to return to the pre-1983 policy of making Medicare the primary payer of health care costs for people over 65, whether they are working or not. 
 The most significant single policy step, experts say, would be to increase the age when people can receive Social Security benefits by two or three years to 64 or 65, with exceptions for the disabled and needy. ''We have to raise the age of eligibility,'' said Ms. Munnell of Boston College. ''If you continue to offer benefits at 62, they grab it.''
 Waiting, and working longer, she says, is the wiser and more financially responsible choice for most people. A person who retires at 66 will pocket a monthly Social Security check that is one-third higher than if that person retired at 62. 
 Judy McCrickard, a 64-year-old administrative assistant in Racine, Wis., plans to retire at the end of 2010, when she will be 66. She works for S. C. Johnson, a household products company that the AARP rates as one of the best employers for workers over 50.
 But Ms. McCrickard has also kept up her end of the implicit bargain, by regularly upgrading her skills. When she joined the company in the 1960s, there were no computers in offices. But through courses offered by the company, she has become fluent in budgeting, financial planning and project management programs. Today, she is essentially a project manager, not a secretary. Her latest project was to design and manage an internal Web site for contingency planning across the global company to prepare for emergencies like a pandemic.
 ''I'm not slowing down because I'm 64,'' Ms. McCrickard said, ''and no one here would expect me to.'' Her boss is urging her to stay on until she's 70. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WOMEN (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%)

COMPANY: MITRE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BOSTON COLLEGE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



548 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: The New Pariahs?

BYLINE: By NOAH FELDMAN. 
Noah Feldman, a contributing writer, teaches law at Harvard and is a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
No country is wholly free of anti-immigrant prejudice, whether it is the United States, where illegal immigration was a hot-button issue in the Republican primaries, or post-apartheid South Africa, where economic migrants were recently burned to death. But in many Western European countries today, something new and insidious seems to be happening. The familiar old arguments against immigrants -- that they are criminals, that their culture makes them a bad fit, that they take jobs from natives -- are mutating into an anti-Islamic bias that is becoming institutionalized in the continent's otherwise ordinary politics.
 Examples abound. The Swiss People's Party sponsors ads in which three white sheep push one black sheep off the Swiss flag -- and wins 29 percent of the vote. In Belgium, the Vlaams Belang deploys a clever variation, publicly praising Jews and seeking their support against Muslims, whom it tellingly describes as ''the main enemy of the moment.'' Meanwhile, the Dutch politician Geert Wilders calls Islam ''the ideology of a retarded culture.'' 
 Even Britain, which has afforded Muslims a more welcoming environment, has had some worrying moments. A few years back, a Labor M.P. called for an end to ''the tradition of first-cousin marriages'' among Pakistanis and other South Asians in Britain. The basis for her suggestion was the claim that Pakistanis in Britain were more likely than the general population to suffer from recessive autosomal genetic disorders. Of course, so are Ashkenazi Jews, but you can hardly imagine an M.P. proposing to limit Jews' marriage choices for this reason, especially given the historic Nazi allegation of Jewish genetic inferiority.
 What is so striking about these forms of prejudice, which go beyond ordinary anti-immigrant feeling, is that they are taking root in otherwise enlightened, progressive states -- states where the memory of the Holocaust has often led to the adoption of laws against anti-Semitism and racism. The reasons, therefore, must surely go beyond economic or cultural insecurity.
 One factor that cannot be ignored is the threat of terrorism, so closely associated today with radical Islam. In London, Madrid and Amsterdam, terrorist acts have been perpetrated by Muslim immigrants or (more worrisome still) their children. Yet it must be remembered that Europe has also suffered homegrown terrorist attacks, motivated by everything from national liberation (in the cases of the Irish Republican Army or the Basque E.T.A.) to radical leftism (Baader-Meinhof and the Brigate Rosse). Europeans are, therefore, to a degree acclimated to terror, undercutting its power as an explanation. And in the U.S., which on Sept. 11 suffered much greater terrorist damage than any European country ever has, anti-Muslim bias does not have the political weight that it does in Europe.
 Well-meaning Europeans sometimes argue that unlike the U.S., their countries are traditionally ''homogeneous'' and have little experience with immigration. Generalized anti-immigrant feeling, they suggest, has come to rest on Muslims simply because they are increasingly visible. In France, the specter of the ''Polish plumber'' undercutting French workmen's wages played a role in recent votes, suggesting the possibility of an equal-opportunity bias. But hostility to Eastern European migrants, though real enough, still does not run as deep as corresponding hostility to Muslims.
 The perception of cultural difference may help explain this disparity. Muslim immigrants are depicted in European political rhetoric as not merely backward but also illiberal, contradicting Europe's now-prevalent commitment to tolerance of homosexuality and sex out of wedlock. At the same time, Muslims are thought to be forcing their children to maintain practices like the head scarf, which is banned in many French schools.
 Certainly it is reasonable for free societies to encourage immigrants to adopt their own liberal values. A Dutch requirement that potential immigrants view a film depicting topless bathers and gay couples may seem a little childish, but it is not a human rights violation, and it may even help prepare immigrants for the different world they are poised to enter. Schools should teach the values of the surrounding society, including respect for different lifestyles. Nevertheless, a hallmark of liberal, secular societies is supposed to be respect for different cultures, including traditional, religious cultures -- even intolerant ones. There is something discomfiting about a selective respect that extends to the Roman Catholic Church, with its rejection of homosexuality and women priests, but excludes Islam for its sexism and homophobia.
 This leaves another, more controversial explanation for anti-Muslim attitudes in Europe: even after 60 years of introspection about the anti-Semitism that led to the Holocaust, Europeans are not convinced that culturally and religiously different immigrants should be treated as full members of their societies. European anti-Semitism between the world wars featured accusations of criminality, religious backwardness, genetic inferiority and, above all, the impossibility of assimilation. And it is no coincidence that significant numbers of the Jews in Western Europe were immigrants or children of immigrants from farther east.
 The U.S. had its own terrible legacy of legalized racism in the form of the Jim Crow laws, which Hitler imitated for his own purposes. In the aftermath of World War II, however, we began slowly and agonizingly to come to terms with this past. Racial bias is still with us, but so is self-consciousness about our problems and how they must be overcome.
 In Europe, by contrast, Hitler's horrifying success at killing so many Jews meant that the burgeoning postwar societies of the continent never had to come to terms with difference, because it was to a great extent eradicated. Today, as the birthrate for European Muslims far outstrips that for their neighbors, it is as if Europe's discomfort with difference is being encountered for the first time. In theory, Europe remembers the Holocaust. But the depth of that memory may be doubted when many Europeans seem to have forgotten that their continent was home to other outsiders well before the arrival of today's Muslim minority. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRA BOULAT)
CHART: ATTITUDE CHECK: Percentage of citizens who think Muslims in their country mostly want to...
 (CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW, Source: The Pew Global Attitudes Project, 2006) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); RELIGION (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (84%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); HOLOCAUST (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MENTAL RETARDATION (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BURN INJURIES (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); GENETIC DISEASES (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



549 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2228 words

HEADLINE: To the Trenches: The Tort War Is Raging On

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
IN a Washington ballroom bedecked with flags honoring explorers who overcame oceans and mountains to pursue international trade, Thomas J. Donohue congratulated the assembled modern merchants -- a group of executives, lobbyists and lawyers -- for challenging a more mundane adversary. 
 ''It took guts, bravery and vision to get behind what must have seemed like an insurmountable task -- taking on the powerful trial bar,'' said Mr. Donohue, the chief executive of the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''We have succeeded beyond our expectations.''
 There were plenty of reasons for self-congratulation at the dinner, held earlier this month to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the chamber's Institute for Legal Reform. Some of the best-known plaintiff-side lawyers in the country -- Richard F. Scruggs, Melvyn I. Weiss and William S. Lerach -- have all pleaded guilty to charges that they tried to manipulate the justice system. The very phrase ''trial lawyer'' has become associated with unadulterated greed; the Association of Trial Lawyers of America now calls itself the American Association for Justice. 
 But it is still too early to declare an end to the so-called tort wars, a decades-old conflict over the rules governing civil lawsuits. Corporate interests have won several potent victories, but trial lawyers continue to try to undo legislation restricting litigation and are pursuing new strategies of their own.
 Businesses count among the victories federal legislation passed in 2005 that made it harder to file class-action lawsuits in state courts, where judges and juries were often perceived as hostile to business. In state courts, where most civil litigation plays out, the number of suits involving auto accidents, allegations of medical malpractice and the like fell steadily from 1995 to 2005, according to the National Center for State Courts. The Chamber of Commerce says the number of megaverdicts for more than $100 million dropped to 2 last year, from 27 in 2000. 
 NEVERTHELESS, there are battles in individual states over judicial campaigns and legislative initiatives. The number of class-action lawsuits filed in 88 federal courts rose 72 percent from 2001 to 2007, partly because of that 2005 law. (Presumably, the number of class actions in state courts has fallen, although this data is hard to come by.) And while a study released in December by Towers Perrin, the consulting firm, found that total ''tort costs'' fell in 2006, it predicted that costs would rise as a souring economy prompts more lawsuits.
 The chief executive of the American Association for Justice, Jon Haber, is skeptical of the results of spending by the Chamber of Commerce and its members to hobble lawsuits. And he defends the new name of his organization as reflecting what it does, rather than who its members are.
 ''The chamber's political portfolio looks a lot like the portfolio of many Wall Street banks these days -- a large number of bad bets that did not pay off but cost their members an awful lot of money,'' Mr. Haber said.
 He can rattle off recent victories for trial lawyers as quickly as he can list the goals his members hope to achieve. Voters in Washington State, for example, last year approved a bill that allows people to collect triple damages if an insurer unreasonably denies a claim.
 In Colorado, an initiative to limit lawyers' fees was answered with a barrage of proposals that would limit executive compensation, cap real estate sales commissions and raise the maximum amount of damages payable as a result of shoddy construction, among other things. All the initiatives were eventually withdrawn.
 At the federal level, trial lawyers are pushing for a law that would make it easier for consumers to sue instead of having to submit to binding arbitration, as many contracts -- for credit cards, for example -- now require. The trial lawyers are also trying to make it harder for defendants to keep legal proceedings secret. ''There are a number of things that are very much pro-civil justice that are starting to work through Congress,'' Mr. Haber said. 
 Strikingly absent from debates over who should be able to sue whom, when and for how much is any discussion of the fairest and most effective way to make sure that true victims are appropriately compensated for injuries and that people without authentic injury are not compensated. 
 ''That's not the conversation we're having,'' because the only voices heard belong to advocates of one side or the other, said Robert L. Rabin, a law professor at Stanford. ''Those advocates reflect advocacy interests -- that is, either defense-side interests or plaintiff-side interests -- rather than some overview of global fairness.''
 Civil lawsuits seek to compensate victims of negligence or wrongdoing, like the unlucky passer-by hit by a falling piano. But how much of a penalty should such suits exact, above and beyond compensation, in order to deter wrongdoing? What about someone traumatized by the sight of the accident, or maybe a whole class of potential victims? And whom can these people sue -- the movers, the piano's maker, its owner? 
 The tort wars over such questions have waxed and waned for decades since the Industrial Revolution and the concurrent growth in industrial-scale accidents, said John Witt, a law professor at Columbia University. 
 ''There are commencement addresses at law schools in the 1890s,'' Professor Witt said, ''where old railroad lawyers are lamenting the rise of a new class of oftentimes immigrant lawyers who don't have access to the old ways of getting clients, and they strike out on this new business model'' of actively seeking clients and charging them a fee that is a percentage of whatever was won in court.
 The fight to change tort laws has developed into a big business in itself, with plenty of people invested in keeping the battle going. Neither Mr. Haber nor Mr. Donohue would say flatly that his side was winning. Doing so would make it harder to lure contributions -- a point made by people on both sides of the debate.
 Officials at the Institute for Legal Reform, the chamber unit, would not specify how much it spends annually on media and publicity campaigns, except to say it's in the millions. And many organizations, nationally and in the states, lobby on both sides.
 But the chamber itself, which represents millions of businesses of all sizes, is the biggest spender on the lobbying. In 2006, it spent $72.7 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit research group that tracks money in politics. On the trial lawyers' side, the American Association for Justice spent $8.3 million that year.
 Those numbers do not paint a complete picture, though. For years, business lobbyists say they focused on getting favorable legislation passed. But the restrictions enacted often proved vulnerable to legal challenges -- and in states that elected judges, trial lawyers were historically more active in contributing to judges' campaigns. 
 Business advocates needed to adjust their thinking, said Steven B. Hantler, chairman of the American Justice Partnership, another organization that is seeking to change the civil justice system in opposition to the trial bar.
 ''If you were to ask a corporate lawyer, when does the litigation process start, the corporate lawyer would say, when the lawsuit is filed,'' said Mr. Hantler, a former head of the chamber's legal reform institute. ''The trial lawyer would say, not at all. It starts when judges are appointed or judges are elected, and when laws are made.''
 AS an assistant general counsel at the former DaimlerChrysler, Mr. Hantler was ordered by Robert J. Eaton, then co-chairman, to come up with a way to help shield from legal challenge any new laws curbing litigation.
 ''I remember sending Bob an e-mail shortly after the Ohio Supreme Court -- this must be in 1999 -- struck down tort reform legislation,'' Mr. Hantler recalled. ''Within an hour and a half, I was summoned to his office.''
 Mr. Hantler told his boss that focusing on legislation was not enough. Mr. Eaton then instructed him, Mr. Hantler said, to develop a comprehensive strategy for changing the law.
 On DaimlerChrysler's dime, Mr. Hantler convened a meeting in the Washington offices of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher, a law firm. Among those present, Mr. Hantler said, were Theodore B. Olson, a partner at the firm who was later named solicitor general; Mike Murphy, who was a top strategist for John McCain's presidential campaign in 2000; Clark S. Judge, a former speechwriter for Ronald Reagan who went on to the White House Writers Group, a communications firm; and Robert H. Bork Jr., who is the son of the former Supreme Court nominee and has his own firm, now called the Bork Communication Group.
 They came up with what Mr. Hantler described as a multipronged strategy, involving advertising aimed at voters picking judges and continued lobbying of lawmakers. This ''demonstration project,'' as Mr. Hantler called it, was successful enough that the Institute for Legal Reform has expanded it over the years. At the same time, businesses have become more active in state supreme court judicial campaigns and, in the 2006 election cycle, gave twice as much as lawyers did, according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics. (In previous cycles, sometimes companies gave more, sometimes lawyers gave more.)
 To help deliver a pro-business message, advocates have hit upon a ranking system. One list ranks ''judicial hellholes,'' as compiled by the American Tort Reform Association, and another identifies those states deemed by corporate general counsels to be most and least friendly to businesses. (That list comes from the Chamber of Commerce.) 
 In Mississippi, which received the worst ranking on the chamber's list, advocates of limits on lawsuits made a special effort. In 2002 and 2004, state lawmakers passed legislation that, among other things, capped how much plaintiffs could recover in punitive damages and in noneconomic damages -- compensation for pain and suffering, for example. 
 But Lance L. Stevens, a Mississippi lawyer and former president of the state's association of trial lawyers, said that even after the changes to the tort laws, the state has moved up in the ranking by only a few spots. General counsels at big corporations are not critical of Mississippi because of its legal system, he said. ''It is the corporate lawyers for the Fortune 500 companies expressing their general disgust for Mississippi and their mistaken belief that we are culturally retarded.'' 
 Lisa Rickard, president of the chamber's Institute for Legal Reform, said that the new laws limiting lawsuits in Mississippi had not been on the books long enough to have more of an effect. ''It takes a long time to come out of it,'' she said.
 Corporate executives say they want limits on noneconomic damages in order to reduce unpredictability in jury verdicts. But the caps hurt the very people who most need help -- low-income people who sustain injuries, Mr. Stevens said. People who earn a lot of money can claim significant lost income as part of their injury. The unemployed, children, the elderly or anyone else with little earning potential stands to recover less for the same injury than someone in the work force. Plaintiffs' attorneys often get a percentage of the amount awarded to a client, so the limits mean they have a greater incentive to sue on behalf of a rich injured victim than a poor one. 
 ''I have not filed a lawsuit for a child or a stay-at-home mom in a medical malpractice claim since 2002, because they regrettably lack economic value in the tort reform scheme'' now in place in Mississippi, Mr. Stevens said.
 At the federal level, legislation making it easier to move class-action lawsuits out of state courts was the major achievement for business advocates. They wanted to prevent lawyers from filing nationwide class actions in courts in counties, like Madison County in Illinois, that were perceived as hostile to corporate defendants.
 But all of the consequences of that law, passed in 2005, are not yet clear. Although the number of lawsuits that defendants shifted to federal courts rose after the law was passed in 2005, a report released in April by the Federal Judicial Center, a research and education agency created by Congress, found that the number of such shifts has since fallen. On the other hand, the number of class-action suits filed initially in federal courts has risen. And no one has reliable data on the total number of class-action suits filed in state courts.
 PLAINTIFF-SIDE lawyers are innovating. Some firms are looking to courts outside the United States.
 ''If, for example, you have a company that defrauds its shareholders, shareholders around the world who invested in that company in any market should have the same rights to recover,'' said Michael D. Hausfeld, partner at Cohen Milstein Hausfeld & Toll, which has opened an office in London and is allying with law firms in several countries. While the firm itself is not lobbying for legal changes to make it easier to sue in foreign courts, Mr. Hausfeld said, ''we are involved with others who are doing that.''
 So, despite some very high-profile casualties, the tort wars aren't over. They may just be going global. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the continuing tort wars over the civil justice system misidentified the position that Steven B. Hantler, chairman of the American Justice Partnership, once held at the Institute for Legal Reform, part of the United States Chamber of Commerce. He was chairman of the advisory committee of donor representatives; he was not the institute's president. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Donohue, chief executive of the United States Chamber of Commerce, and Lisa Rickard, president of its Institute for Legal Reform, have helped to lead the charge against trial lawyers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU 1)
William S. Lerach, left, Melvyn I. Weiss, center, and Richard F. Scruggs are plaintiffs' lawyers. They have pleaded guilty to charges that they tried to manipulate the justice system. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY F. CARTER SMITH/BLOOMBERG NEWS
MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS
 ROGELIO V. SOLIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); LOBBYING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); TORTS (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); JURY TRIALS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); JUDGES (72%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (71%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR JUSTICE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



550 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Predicting Where You'll Go and What You'll Like

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FITZGERALD. 
Michael Fitzgerald writes about business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THAT hoariest of real estate truisms -- location, location, location -- may soon be a clarion call for all sorts of businesses. 
 We're in the midst of a boom in devices that show where people are at any point in time. Global positioning systems are among the hottest consumer electronics devices ever, says Clint Wheelock, chief research officer at ABI Research, a technology market follower. And cellphones increasingly come with G.P.S. chips. All of these devices churn out data that says something about how people live. 
 Such data could redefine what we know about consumer behavior, giving businesses early insight into economic trends, better ways to determine sites for offices and retail stores, and more effective ways to advertise. 
 Just this month, the journal Nature published a paper that looked at cellphone data from 100,000 people in an unnamed European country over six months and found that most follow very predictable routines. Knowing those routines means that you can set probabilities for them, and track how they change.
 ''What we do is really not random, even though it may appear random,'' says Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, a physicist at Northeastern University who is one of the paper's authors. 
 It's hard to make sense of such data, but Sense Networks, a software analytics company in New York, earlier this month released Macrosense, a tool that aims to do just that. Macrosense applies complex statistical algorithms to sift through the growing heaps of data about location and to make predictions or recommendations on various questions -- where a company should put its next store, for example. Gregory Skibiski, 34, the chief executive and a co-founder of Sense, says the company has been testing its software with a major retailer, a major financial services firm and a large hedge fund. 
 Tony Jebara, also 34, the chief scientist and another co-founder of Sense, said, ''We can predict tourism, we can tell you how confident consumers are, we can tell retailers about, say, their competitors, who's coming in from particular neighborhoods.'' 
 Mr. Jebara, who is also an associate professor of computer science at Columbia University, says the key to drawing such conclusions starts with having very large sets of data that go back several years. Sense's models were developed initially from sources like taxicab companies that let it look at location data over such a period. Sense also uses publicly available data, like weather information, and other nonpublic sources that it would not disclose. ''We had three-quarters of a billion data points from just one city,'' Mr. Skibiski says.
 Mr. Jebara's statistical models interpret those patterns and look at whether they correlate with things in the real world, like tourism levels or retail sales. The algorithms are complex. Even so, the model doesn't work for everything Sense tries it on, often because more data is needed. But Mr. Jebara says that when it has the data, the model works well. Several hedge funds made an investment in Sense earlier this year.
 The Macrosense tool lets companies engage in ''reality mining,'' a phrase coined by Sandy Pentland, an M.I.T. researcher who was also a co-founder of Sense and now advises it on privacy issues.
 Sense is not the only company engaged in reality mining. Inrix, a Microsoft spin-off, uses traffic data to predict traffic patterns. Path Intelligence of Britain monitors traffic flow in shopping centers by tracking cellphones. 
 Reality mining raises instant questions about privacy, especially when cellphone data is involved. In the United States, it is illegal in many cases for cellphone companies to share customers' location data without their consent. 
 Mr. Skibiski says that Sense is interested only in aggregate data and that it's looking for broad patterns, not the specific behavior of individuals. But he recognizes the privacy issue. He says he believes that people should own their own data, control when it is disclosed and receive some remuneration for it. His original idea in 2002 was to pay people for their data, but a formula for doing so proved too complicated.
 Instead, Sense decided to trade services for data. On the same day it released Macrosense, it announced a new software package called Citysense, which uses location data to show where people are going, say, for nightlife, and maps their activity. Consumers who have iPhones or BlackBerrys can sign up for the service, which does not ask for personal information. Over time, the software will learn their patterns and recommend places they might like to go, or show them where other people with similar patterns are going. If they want to purge their data, they can do so at any time.
 There's little doubt that products we use everyday, like our cellphones or cars, will increasingly allow for us to be tracked. And after years of hype, there also seems to be demand for services built around location. Gartner, a technology researcher and consulting firm, says that the market -- which includes various navigation and search devices and subscriptions and services -- will nearly triple in revenue this year, to $1.3 billion from $485 million in 2007, and will reach $8 billion in 2011. 
 Annette Zimmermann, a Gartner analyst, says Macrosense seems to have a novel offering, one with a potentially large market.
 ''So many companies are just sitting on data'' that they can't do much with, she says. That could make Macrosense a powerful tool. 
 Still, Sense's model is not a sure thing. 
 ''The reality is that location data is new, and we don't have 10 years of history to work from,'' says Ted Morgan, the chief executive and founder of Skyhook Wireless, which sells a service that lets people use WiFi network access points to get information about their location. 
 ''But if their algorithms can do the things they say, we'd probably do a lot with them,'' Mr. Morgan says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gregory Skibiski, left, and Tony Jebara of Sense Networks, a company that uses location data to make recommendations for businesses and consumers. At right, its software shows busy areas in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (86%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); TRENDS (74%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); WRITERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); WEATHER (64%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



551 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; READING FILE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Doing Everything All at Once

 BODY:
DOING EVERYTHING ALL AT ONCE
 In The New Atlantis, Christine Rosen explores the dangers of multitasking.
 William James, the great psychologist, wrote at length about the varieties of human attention. In ''The Principles of Psychology'' (1890), he outlined the differences among ''sensorial attention,'' ''intellectual attention,'' ''passive attention'' and the like, and noted the ''gray chaotic indiscriminateness'' of the minds of people who were incapable of paying attention. ... 
 To James, steady attention was thus the default condition of a mature mind, an ordinary state undone only by perturbation. To readers a century later, that placid portrayal may seem alien -- as though depicting a bygone world. Instead, today's multitasking adult may find something more familiar in James's description of the youthful mind: an ''extreme mobility of the attention'' that ''makes the child seem to belong less to himself than to every object which happens to catch his notice.'' For some people, James noted, this challenge is never overcome; such people only get their work done ''in the interstices of their mind-wandering.'' 
 THE WATER GRAB
 Susan Berfield, writing in BusinessWeek, describes the rush to control water supplies.
 Roberts County is a neat square in a remote corner of the Texas Panhandle, a land of rolling hills, tall grass, oak trees, mesquite and cattle. It has a desolate beauty, a striking sparseness. The county encompasses 924 square miles and is home to fewer than 900 people. One of them is T. Boone Pickens, the oilman and corporate raider, who first bought some property here in 1971 to hunt quail. He's now the largest landowner in the county: His Mesa Vista ranch sprawls across some 68,000 acres. Pickens has also bought up the rights to a considerable amount of water that lies below this part of the High Plains in a vast aquifer that came into existence millions of years ago. 
 If water is the new oil, T. Boone Pickens is a modern-day John D. Rockefeller. Pickens owns more water than any other individual in the U.S. and is looking to control even more. He hopes to sell the water he already has, some 65 billion gallons a year, to Dallas, transporting it over 250 miles, 11 counties, and about 650 tracts of private property. ... 
 In the coming decades, as growing numbers of people live in urban areas and climate change makes some regions much more prone to drought, water -- or what many are calling ''blue gold'' -- will become an increasingly scarce resource. By 2030 nearly half of the world's population will inhabit areas with severe water stress, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Pickens understands that. ... ''The idea that water can be sold for private gain is still considered unconscionable by many,'' says James M. Olson, one of America's preeminent attorneys specializing in water- and land-use law. ''But the scarcity of water and the extraordinary profits that can be made may overwhelm ordinary public sensibilities.''
 CLIMBING ON BOARD
 On the Web site of Foreign Policy magazine, one of the reasons to love $4-a-gallon gas is explained.
 From 2000 to 2005, fewer than 5 percent of Americans used mass transit for their commutes, compared with about 50 percent in Japan and Europe. But that may be changing. More U.S. commuters than ever are taking buses, subways, or light rail to work instead of driving their cars. ... It's not rocket science. For many, a roundtrip bus or metro fare is easier to stomach than gas prices that in some places have climbed to $4.79 per gallon. Three-quarters of Americans now believe more money should be spent on developing and improving mass transit systems, and cities are responding. Expansion and renovation projects are in the works for Southern California, New York, Philadelphia, Seattle and Washington, D.C. Europe, meanwhile, is taking transit to the next level: Paris, which has been updating its light-rail network, is installing energy-efficient trains on several Metro lines, while London plans to increase its system's overall capacity by 50 percent by 2022.
 KEEPS ROLLING ALONG
 Mark Twain writing about the power of the Mississippi River, from the book, ''Mark Twain in Eruption: Hitherto Unpublished Pages About Men and Events,'' edited by Bernard DeVoto.
 The Mississippi River will always have its own way; no engineering skill can persuade it to do otherwise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William James 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (70%); DROUGHT (70%); WATER QUALITY (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (57%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (74%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



552 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MEDIUM; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Family-Size

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
The average American mother has 2.1 children. The United States is no Hong Kong, where the average mother has 1, but it's not prolific Somalia, either, where 6.6 is average. Here we just keep procreation moving along.
 In the midst of this moderation, TLC, the basic cable channel, has assembled a little fertility cult. To watch TLC, which specializes in makeovers and reality shows about ordinary lives, is not only to witness the hideous miracle of childbirth almost every morning on ''A Baby Story''; it's also to meet the Gosselins (''Jon & Kate Plus 8'') and the Duggars (''Duggars' Big Family Album''), couples with broods so gigantic that they need buses, uniforms and warehouselike bunking arrangements to keep everything together. Each episode of these big-family shows -- like a neighborhood scandal -- has supplied hours of fun for online gossips, who alternately cheer and boo the supersize families on parenting boards and fan sites. (''Yikes,'' wrote one commenter on a food forum called Mouthfuls, referring to the Duggars. ''Someone hold me so I can stop shaking.'' Another swiftly replied: ''Lest you coastal types think otherwise, these aren't some fringe weirdos. Welcome to the American mainstream.'') 
 ''Laugh, Cry, Forgive, Celebrate'' reads a promo for TLC. Perhaps it's in the spirit of unity that the Duggars and the Gosselins have been invited to join the otherwise secular-seeming crowd of stylists and talent-seekers who, elsewhere on the channel, renovate outfits, careers, houses and skin textures. Certainly the Gosselins and Duggars maintain idiosyncratic theologies to match their circumstances. Their God is a child-supplying God.
 Michelle and Jim Bob Duggar of Tontitown, Ark., confide on their family Web site that they grew disillusioned with birth control when Michelle miscarried while on the pill. They resolved to multiply, unimpeded. While the couple have not cited a theological rationale, they have been praised by proponents of Quiverfull, a pro-natalist Protestant ideology based on Psalm 127, which says of children, ''Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them.'' As of this writing, there are 17 Duggar children, including two sets of twins. Michelle is now pregnant with the 18th child -- news she announced in May on ''The Today Show.''
 True, sweet-natured Michelle advocates a program of deference to Jim Bob's authority, though she'll draw the line when she sees fit. (When Jim Bob asked her to brandish for the cameras a positive pregnancy test, presumably still stained with her urine, she declined.) Together, it seems, they have built a family like a company. Online, you can find the Duggars' recipes, marvel at their demanding daily schedule and study their home-schooling curriculum. Furthermore, on the Duggars' site you can ''Welcome Jennifer!'' (No. 17), and on the Web site for Discovery Health, which produces the Duggar-related shows and specials, you can propose names for her imminent sibling in a survey called ''Pick a Name for Baby No. 18.''
 Jon and Kate Gosselin, who live in central Pennsylvania, had trouble conceiving. After undergoing various hospital procedures, they ended up with one set of twins (now 7 years old) and a set of sextuplets (now 4). The couple say they believe that a medicalized approach to birthing babies can also express God's will. But while religious, the Gosselins are nothing if not clinical. In a typical passage on their family's Web site, Kate rehearses details of her ovulation cycles: ''We switched doctors and tried again in October. . . . That cycle was perfect! Everything went great! I was told I had 3 with a possibility of 4 follicles, and that was a great cycle!'' 
 Recently, the New Hair Institute in Los Angeles offered to perform hair-transplant surgery free for Jon, whose stressful family, he says, is the cause of his partial baldness. Viewers were treated to every detail of the transplant, including the surgeon's performing a hair count. (Follicles are evidently a big theme for the Gosselins.) On the family site, you can also find links to the family's ''favorite businesses,'' including Cutco Knives and Kate's plastic surgeon, Lawrence S. Glassman, of Natural Images in Plastic Surgery.
 For these big, religious families, is television exposure a blessing? Possibly, if they can tolerate online snarkiness -- especially from the high priestesses of the art, the fork-tongued moms of the Urban Baby and YouBeMom sites. A Web site devoted to Kennett, Mo., also attracts much clucking. ''The most amazing thing is Kate's O.C.D. and her anger toward Jon,'' wrote someone called TLC Viewer. The next day another poster replied, ''Could you imagine how the house and kids would look if she wasn't a little O.C.D.?'' A poster called Candy Cane then shared her own experience: ''I only have 2 and 1 on the way and most days I feel like I'm gonna go insane.'' 
 TLC also maintains a fan site for ''Jon & Kate Plus 8,'' and the channel is planning to update the discussion forums. Early on, comments on an old Discovery Health forum were discourteous and even intrusive. ''We kindly ask that you respect the Gosselins and their privacy,'' the site requests. ''While it is a 'reality' show . . . please consider that this is a REAL family.'' Anyone who can make sense of the words ''privacy'' and ''reality'' here is welcome to try.
 Why would TLC's and Discovery Health's audiences be so taken with these farm-era families? Candy Cane's post, about the difficulty of managing even two kids, seems to suggest an answer: the horror felt by ''coastal types'' at these families is shallow. Read only a little farther, and you'll find they can hardly suppress their admiration. A poster to the forums on Discovery Health spelled it out: ''I have nothing in common with the Duggars -- philosophically, socially or economically. Even so, I can't help but admire them. They have, by all accounts, raised 17 bright, polite, well-functioning children. They are able to support their children without public assistance and, based on the curriculum set forth on their Web site, they are meeting their children's academic needs as well as any public school could.'' Now get back to your own families and stop complaining. 
 Points of Entry
 THIS WEEK'S RECOMMENDATIONS
 ALL IN THE FAMILY: Catch ''Jon & Kate Plus 8'' and the saga of the Duggars on TLC. The most recent Duggars program, on Discovery Health, is ''Duggars' Big Family Album''; earlier titles include ''14 Children and Pregnant Again!'' and ''Raising 16 Children.'' Fourteen! Ha! Easy street. Web sites for the families: sixgosselins.com and duggarfamily.com.
 I DISMEMBER MAMA: Urban Baby, though controversially redesigned, remains the place where mothers go ''to criticize one another's parenting skills, political and religious views and overall worth as human beings,'' as The Times recently put it. If you want the old interface, you can opt for the YouBeMom site. Either decision will get you judged, of course. But if you like mothering message boards, you're used to that.
 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Childfree.net, an excellent resource for adults who do not wish to have children, includes a modified version of a famous satire published by Ann Landers in which ''the childless couple'' is pitied because ''they fill their lonely days with golf, vacation trips, dinner dates, civic affairs, tranquillity, leisure and entertainment. There is a terrifying emptiness without children, but the childless couple are too comfortable to know it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN VAN AELST)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); FAMILY (78%); MISCARRIAGES (75%); PARENTING (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); RELIGION (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%); CONTRACEPTION (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



553 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Waistlines Expand Into a Workplace Issue

BYLINE: By KELLEY HOLLAND. 
E-mail: newmanage@nytimes.com

 BODY:
TAKE a look around your office tomorrow and see if you can identify a condition that's quietly costing employers billions of dollars a year. 
 Give up? Here's a clue: waistlines. 
 Nearly two-thirds of American adults are overweight or obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the percentage of adults classified as obese doubled from 1980 to 2000 to 31 percent of the population. (To see how obesity has spread, take a look at some startling maps from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: on cdc.gov, search with ''Obesity Trends 1985-2006.'')
 In their capacity as health insurance providers, employers pay heavily for obesity's spread. Obesity accounted for 27 percent of the rise in medical costs from 1987 to 2001, according to research by Kenneth Thorpe, a professor of public health at Emory University, and three colleagues. Obesity costs companies $45 billion a year, according to a report by the Conference Board and RTI International, a research institute. 
 Obese people tend to miss work more often and tend to be less mobile on the job than their thinner counterparts. Obesity is also a more powerful trigger for chronic health problems than either smoking or heavy drinking, according to research by Roland Sturm, a senior economist at the RAND Corporation.
 And it is increasingly being treated as a disease in its own right, with therapy, bariatric surgery and drugs, all of which propel insurance costs higher.
 But here is where the situation becomes confusing. Corporate leaders often speak out on issues that cost them tens of billions of dollars annually. Numerous executives have called for a plan for providing health insurance to the uninsured, for example. So why aren't they making more noise about obesity? 
 ''People in charge of benefits plans completely, 100 percent get it,'' said LuAnn Heinen, director of the Institute on the Costs and Health Effects of Obesity, an offshoot of the National Business Group on Health. It is also clear, she said, that top executives are very interested in health benefit costs. But, she added, ''their perception of obesity as a driver of costs -- they may not understand that as well.'' 
 Or maybe they are generally aware of obesity's cost -- almost 14 percent of United States chief executives counted it as a top health care benefits concern in the Conference Board-RTI report -- but, as Ms. Heinen said, ''It's a sensitive issue to address head-on.'' (It's quite a contrast to Japan, where employers are actually measuring workers' waists and doling out dieting guidance.) 
 American employers may also believe that obesity is not their problem to solve, particularly in industries with high employee turnover. After all, workers' health care costs do not rise the minute they gain weight. And people tend to change jobs every four or five years, taking their health care costs with them. 
 ''For most companies, it's not a smart business move,'' said Eric Finkelstein, director of the public health economics program at RTI. ''Putting on a public health hat, you might say it's unfortunate that companies don't do more for employees. But it doesn't make sense from an employer's point of view.''
 Still, companies can -- and a few do -- take cost-effective steps to encourage employees to lose weight and keep it off. Several studies indicate that simple cash incentives, like payments to employees for completing questionnaires assessing their health, discounts at health clubs, reduced health insurance premiums, can all help. 
 In addition, changing the habits of a few workers may affect the behavior of many more. Nicholas A. Christakis, a doctor and a sociology professor at Harvard, has studied the effects of social networks on obesity. When one friend gains or loses a lot of weight, he found, the odds improve that another will, as well. ''You can take advantage of this multiplicative power of networks, so my behavior influences you, and you influence the next guy, and so on,'' he said. 
 PSEG, the utility company based in Newark, recognizes in its wellness and weight-management programs the power of employees to influence one another. Several years ago, it began analyzing which illnesses and injuries were most common among employees. Not surprisingly for a company with workers who carry heavy equipment and operate jackhammers, musculoskeletal injuries were the most common cause of disabilities and absences. Digging deeper, the company found that obese employees were far more likely to get hurt. 
 One lineman who weighed 350 pounds could not ride in a bucket to elevated wires and other equipment, recalled Dr. Ronald Mack, PSEG's medical director. Dr. Mack had long been generally aware that obesity was an issue for many workers, but ''that was an aha moment,'' he said. 
 Over the last few years, PSEG has revamped its wellness programs to emphasize weight and nutrition. It has also added some modest financial incentives for participation, like payments for filling out personal health evaluations.
 The programs have not yet changed overall injury rates, but the employees who used all the services have 18 percent fewer missed days than their counterparts. 
 ''Engagement, engagement, engagement,'' Dr. Mack said. ''That's the
 goal.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); TRENDS (77%); BARIATRICS (77%); INSURANCE (75%); DIETING (72%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (72%); SMOKING (69%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



554 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Special Legislative Session Fruitful, to Some

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 A MIXTURE of election-year jitters, economic fears and frustration over a budget stalemate turned out to be the right political formula to generate a surprisingly active General Assembly special session.
 In a single day earlier this month, lawmakers approved ethics reform, repeal of a scheduled state gasoline tax increase, permission for gasoline stations to offer cash discounts, extension of a real estate conveyance tax designed to help municipalities, and fuel aid for the poor. They also passed a $21.9 million bailout for the financially troubled University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington.
 Special legislative sessions in Connecticut happen almost every year. But this one wasn't originally expected to accomplish very much. 
 ''It seems they were very productive,'' the state Democratic chairman, Nancy DiNardo, said of what finally emerged. ''Certainly, in an election year, all legislators seem to be more attentive.''
 Connecticut Republicans have a different view of the June 11 session. They claim credit for forcing the Democratic majority to take action on some issues, at the same time insisting Democrats did not go far enough.
 ''In my opinion, we're here because of us,'' the House Republican leader, Lawrence F. Cafero Jr., of Norwalk, said as legislators prepared to vote on a string of hot-button issues.
 The state Republican chairman, Chris Healy, agreed about the Democrats.
 ''I think they felt they had to do something because the Republican minority had been driving the debate,'' he said. ''But I think the session was a farce, a case of too little, too late.''
 When Democratic leaders walked out of the State Capitol on May 7 at the close of the General Assembly's regular three-month session for this year, they had no intention of taking additional action on any laundry list of unfinished business.
 The only thing top Democrats were considering for a special session was an extension of the municipal real estate conveyance tax that people pay to a city or town when buying a property within its borders. The municipal portion of that tax was due to expire July 1. Mayors and first selectmen warned they would lose some $40 million in revenue if the legislature failed to act.
 Republicans, however, were denouncing Democrats for failing to make any changes in the two-year state budget approved in 2007. Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, and Democratic leaders, fearful about the economic downturn and rising state deficits, could not agree on what to do about state spending.
 The result was no revision of the $18.4 billion budget, which included a 4 percent spending increase. It takes effect July 1.
 Doing nothing with the budget had little political appeal in a year when all 151 House seats and 36 Senate seats are at stake in the November election. 
 ''Pocketbook issues certainly have a big effect on voters,'' said Douglas Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll. ''That's the kind of thing that legislators respond to.''
 The greatest pressure on legislators appeared to come from voter anger over gasoline prices that surged to more than $4 a gallon. ''We've seen in our polling that gas prices are the top economic concern right now,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''This is hitting people hard, and they're feeling squeezed.''
 Lawmakers in both parties voted overwhelmingly to delay a scheduled July 1 increase in the state's gross receipts tax that would have bumped up the tax half a percent, to 7.5 percent.
 A second option, to allow gasoline stations to offer a cash discount of 10 to 20 cents a gallon, also drew general bipartisan support.
 But even when both sides in the General Assembly get together on legislation, things can move at a snail's pace. The last vote of this ''one-day'' session did not come till about 3 a.m. on June 12, some 15 hours after it began.
 House Speaker James A. Amann of Milford, a Democrat who is retiring from the General Assembly at the end of this year to explore a run for governor, denounced the action on the gasoline tax as ''political posturing, pandering and appeasing.'' He argued that the revenue increase was needed for improvements in mass transit and other transportation projects.
 ''It was a very typical domino effect of reactionary politicians,'' Mr. Amann said last week. He directed his comments at Governor Rell and Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, who is also considering a run for the Democratic nomination for governor. Mrs. Rell and Mr. Blumenthal came out in favor of repealing the gas tax increase.
 Mr. Amann said he ended up voting to cancel the gasoline tax increase because it was tied to the gasoline cash discount, which he considered a good move for consumers.
 He also acknowledged the huge influence of the coming election. ''The tidal wave of support was there,'' he said.
 The special session also offered lawmakers the opportunity to end a long-running dispute over what to do about public officials convicted of corruption. The bill that finally won overwhelming approval includes a provision to allow a judge to revoke the pension of a corrupt official and to determine, in the case of a corrupt state employee, whether revocation would violate collective bargaining pacts.
 ''It was a good special session,'' said Mr. Amann, who scoffed at the idea that Republican pressure forced legislators into action.
 ''We had agreement with the governor -- it was very bipartisan,'' Mr. Amann said. ''When we're all in agreement, it's easy to get things done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHAT TIME: Mayor John DeStefano Jr. and State Representative Toni Walker, Democrats of New Haven, spoke during a break in a special session of the General Assembly on June 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); ETHICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



555 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: What Happens If We're Wrong?

BYLINE: By PETER L. BERNSTEIN. 
Peter L. Bernstein, a financial consultant and economic historian, is the editor of the Economics & Portfolio Strategy newsletter.

 BODY:
IN 1995, home prices in the United States rose by 1.7 percent. They kept climbing over the next 10 years at an accelerating rate. The climax was in 2005, when the increase was 15.7 percent, putting home prices at more than double their 1995 level. Except for the early years after World War II and during the great inflation of the 1970s, home prices in the United States had never doubled in the short space of 10 years.
 This amazing development could not have occurred without one widely held assumption: that home prices could only go up. If more people had recognized that, as in the past, home prices could also go down, buying a home would have appeared much riskier. Few, if any, lenders would have issued mortgages with minuscule down payments, and there would have been no outbreak of liars' loans or complex financial paper bought by institutions as a matter of faith in questionable triple-A ratings. The banking system would not be in such a mess and the world economy would be on sounder footing. 
 The greatest mystery in the following tumult was in two commonly used words whose value turned out to be hollow: risk management. Sophisticated investors claim that they spend a lot of time devising and executing risk management. But if they were managing risks, how could it be that leading financial institutions flirted with total ruin and that the usual flows of credit were frozen solid?
 The debacle from which the system is now trying to emerge suggests that prevailing risk-management strategies were managing the wrong risks. Surely, a reversal in home prices was a risk to be reckoned with, but it appears to have played no role, or at least none that mattered. 
 These issues are not only for today's financial turmoil. They go to the very root of what we mean by that four-letter word ''risk.'' Risk management is inherently impotent when it ignores the true definition. 
 Elroy Dimson of the London Business School once defined risk as meaning that more things can happen than will happen. That is a fancy way of saying we don't know what will happen, but it is a useful formulation when we take up the task of risk management. If more things can happen than will happen, we can devise probabilities of possible outcomes, but -- and this is a big ''but'' -- we will never know in advance the true range of outcomes we may face.
 For example, the average annual inflation rate in the United States was only 1.4 percent from the end of 1954 to the end of 1965. But in 1965, who could have imagined that inflation would average nearly five times that rate over the next 15 years?
 In short, our forecasts are wrong from time to time.
 That observation sounds like a platitude, but consider the kinds of questions it provokes. How will we deal with surprises -- outcomes different from what we expect? What are the consequences of being wrong in our expectations? This is the point when risk management begins to live up to its real meaning. Risk means the chance of being wrong -- not always in an adverse direction, but always in a direction different from what we expected. 
 The key word is ''consequences.'' I learned this lesson many years ago from studying Blaise Pascal, a French mathematical genius in the 17th century who spelled out the laws of probability more clearly than anyone before him. This was a thunderclap of an insight that, for the first time, gave humanity a systematic way of thinking about the future. 
 Pascal was both a gambler and a religious zealot. One day he asked himself how he would handle a bet on whether ''God is or God is not.'' Reason could not answer. But, he said, we can choose between acting as though God is or acting as though God is not. 
 Suppose we bet that God is, and we lead a life of virtue and abstinence, and then the day of reckoning comes and we discover that there is no God. Well, life was still tolerable even if less fun than we might have liked. Here, the consequences of being wrong would be acceptable to most people.
 Suppose, however, we bet that God is not, and lead a life of lust and sin, and then it turns out that God is. Now being wrong has put us into big trouble.
 RISK management, then, should be a process of dealing with the consequences of being wrong. Sometimes, these consequences are minimal -- encountering rain after leaving home without an umbrella, for example. But betting the ranch on the assumption that home prices can only go up should tell you the consequences would be much more than minimal if home prices started to fall.
 In this assumption, the word ''only'' is ridiculous. There are no ''onlys'' in the future. More things can happen than will happen.
 Under those conditions, risk management should concentrate either on limiting the size of the bet or on finding ways to hedge the bet so you are not wiped out if you take the wrong side -- if home prices do start to go down, or even stop rising. Risk management is fundamentally different from managing volatility, which is how many investors view it. Volatility is often a symptom of risk but is not a risk in and of itself. Volatility obscures the future but does not necessarily determine the future.
 Effective risk management starts with the recognition that any forecast can be wrong, then weighs the consequences of being wrong. Only then can we decide whether to make a bet, whether to hedge that bet and how to execute the hedge if needed. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



556 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Are Small-Cap Stocks Signaling a Recovery?

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN times of economic uncertainty, investors don't usually flock to volatile assets like small-company stocks. Instead, they tend to favor havens like bonds or shares of stable, industry-leading blue-chip companies. 
 But have you seen how small-capitalization stocks have been performing lately?
 Despite all the bad news surrounding record-high oil prices, mounting job losses, and continuing troubles in housing, the Russell 2000 index of small stocks has soared 12.7 percent since mid-March. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500 index of large stocks is up by a more modest 3.5 percent. 
 For investors, this surprising situation raises an important question: Are small stocks signaling that the worst of the economic storm is behind us?
 Historically, a small-stock rally during an economic slowdown has often foreshadowed better times ahead. Ned Davis Research of Venice, Fla., studied economic downturns since the end of World War II and found that large-cap stocks tended to lose their momentum to small stocks six months after the start of an official recession. The typical recession has lasted about 10 months, so these turns often take place during the economic slump -- not after one.
 To be sure, no official recession has yet been declared this time around. But if, as some economists believe, a recession started in December, it wouldn't be surprising that small stocks have begun to excel. 
 The recent surge in small-cap stocks ''fits with many other economic and stock market indicators suggesting recovery,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. He points out that not only are small stocks generally doing well, but also that the most economically sensitive sectors of the small-cap universe have performed best of late.
 They include energy stocks in the S.& P. 600 small-stock index, which are up more than 40 percent since the start of April; the technology sector, up more than 9 percent; and industrial stocks, up more than 8 percent. 
 Bradford Evans, co-portfolio manager of the Heartland Value fund, which specializes in small stocks, says that other signs also support this optimistic view of the economy. For example, he said, ''I would look to the yield curve as confirmation that the economy is possibly staging a stealth recovery.'' 
 Last year, the yield curve -- the spectrum of interest rates paid by bonds of various maturities -- was inverted. In other words, a two-year Treasury note was paying out more than a 10-year note, even though the 10-year Treasury locked you into a longer commitment. Historically, this has signaled economic troubles ahead. 
 Today, the yield curve is sloped normally, with 10-year Treasuries paying substantially more than two-year notes. This typically signals economic growth ahead. 
 Still, not all market watchers are convinced that the small-cap rally is an all-clear signal for Wall Street. ''I would say it's too soon to tell,'' said Samuel S. Stewart Jr., chairman of Wasatch Advisors, an asset manager based in Salt Lake City that specializes in investing in small and medium-sized companies.
 Tim Hayes, chief investment strategist at Ned Davis, agrees. ''I'm playing it cautiously until I can be confident in saying that the stock market has bottomed,'' he said. ''And we can't say that yet.''
 But even if the economic and market storm is continuing, small caps don't necessarily have to start underperforming large-company stocks. 
 Small-stock earnings have held up surprisingly well during this slowdown. In the first quarter, as profits for companies in the S.& P. 500 sank 17 percent versus the same period a year earlier, earnings for the S.& P. 600 small-stock index fell less than 9 percent, according to Merrill Lynch. 
 AND Wall Street analysts are forecasting that S.& P. 600 earnings this year will grow just as fast as large-cap stock profits -- by around 8 percent, according to S.& P. ''On average, earnings for the companies we own are coming through reasonably well,'' Mr. Stewart said. 
 Moreover, with inflation fears heightened, there is a growing sense that the Federal Reserve, which meets this week, won't cut interest rates again. 
 That should be good for small stocks. Standard & Poor's studied the performance of large and small stocks after various series of Fed rate cuts going back to 1954. On average, in the six months after the last rate cut of a series, the Russell 2000 index advanced 14.9 percent, versus just 9.4 percent for the S.& P 500. 
 And 12 months after the last rate cuts, the small-cap advantage persisted. Small stocks surged 25.2 percent, on average, in the year after the Fed stopped trimming rates, versus 18.9 percent for large-cap shares.
 Of course, what if the biggest threat isn't a slowdown, but inflation?
 Don't worry, Mr. Paulsen said. Historically, small stocks have typically outpaced large stocks during periods of accelerating inflation. In the 1970s, for example, as inflation was running at an average annual rate of 7.4 percent, small stocks gained 11.5 percent a year, on average, versus 5.9 percent for large stocks. Similarly, in the 1940s, when inflation was 5.4 percent, on average, small stocks doubled the performance of big stocks.
 Why? Mr. Paulsen argues that just to compete, many small-cap companies must run more efficiently than industry-leading large caps. ''If you've got companies that are operating extremely lean,'' he said, ''and they're now able to raise prices, more of that increase will fall to their bottom line.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BONDS (90%); YIELD CURVE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); WORLD WAR II (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



557 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: A Close Look at All Those Fees

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
BORROWERS lucky enough to secure a mortgage in the current lending environment have a good amount of leverage when negotiating fees with brokers, who are increasingly starved for business.
 The problem is, many people have little idea what constitutes normal closing costs for their loans. In fact, relatively few borrowers even know the important factors that determine their mortgage interest rates.
 A recent survey, done by the Center for Economic and Entrepreneurial Literacy, a Washington-based research center, asked 1,000 people in April to choose the four most relevant factors in obtaining a mortgage. Nearly 70 percent did not identify their credit score, which chiefly determines the borrower's loan eligibility and interest rate. 
 It is little wonder, then, that borrowers often cannot navigate the more complex world of closing costs, which involve paying an array of fees to the loan's originator, appraisers and those who vouch for the legitimacy of the title, among others. ''You'll absolutely find that if people don't have the economic education background they need, they'll end up paying more for a mortgage,'' said Tim Miller, a spokesman for the Center for Economic and Entrepreneurial Literacy.
 Another recent study put that notion into dollars and cents. That study, by the Urban Institute, also based in Washington, found that borrowers living in an area full of college-educated homeowners paid about $1,100 less in mortgage fees than those in areas where few people attended college. The study noted racial differences as well: on average, African-American borrowers paid $415 more for their loans than white counterparts did, while Latinos paid $365 more.
 Among borrowers who work directly with a lender, there are many ways to minimize closing-cost fees. First, mortgage professionals said, it helps to understand which of the more than 20 fees associated with mortgages can be negotiated.
 Aside from the lender or broker's commission, sometimes called a processing fee, there are third party fees for services performed by independent appraisers and title searchers. Typically, the borrower does not hire such parties directly but uses specialists recommended by the lender or mortgage broker. Still, the lender or broker should be able to discuss why a particular service provider was recommended and how competitive the fees are. 
 Closing costs, which generally total 2 to 5 percent of the purchase price, also include taxes, interest charges and other fees that the loan officer or broker has almost no control over.
 Borrowers should watch interest charges closely, though, to be sure that the charge is only for the period between the closing date and the first of the month.
 Last, borrowers must pay a settlement company or in some states, like Connecticut and New York, a real estate lawyer. Normally, this would be a flat fee, negotiated in advance, although the fee could rise, depending on the complexity of the closing process.
 Borrowers can probably make their lives easier by doing business with members of the Upfront Mortgage Brokers Association. They are brokers who promise to state in advance their fees, as well as most third-party-fees, excluding items like interest and escrow expenses.
 Jack Guttentag, author of ''The Mortgage Encyclopedia,'' added that borrowers can review all closing costs on the HUD-1 Settlement Statement. ''Although borrowers have the right to review the HUD-1 statement one day before closing,'' Mr. Guttentag said, ''they must know enough to ask for it, and few do.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates)
 Chart details 15 and 30 Year Fixed Rate within line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (89%); LOAN BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); COMMISSION PAY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



558 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 2429 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 LEVITTOWN Governor's Comedy Club ''The Return of the Joke Man'' featuring Jackie Martling, stand-up. Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. $25, plus a two-beverage minimum. Robert Klein, stand-up. June 28 at 7 and 9:30 p.m. $25, plus a two-beverage minimum. Governor's Comedy Club, 90 Division Avenue. (516) 731-3358; www.govs.com. 
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three Long Island Comedy Festival, featuring up-and-coming comics, as well as established professionals. Friday and June 28. $25. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.licomedyfest.com.
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Howie Mandel, stand-up. June 22 at 8 p.m. $100 to $150. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org. 
 FILM
 EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Smiles of a Summer Night,'' by Ingmar Bergman, Swedish with English subtitles. July 1 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050. 
 HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center ''The Phantom Carriage,'' with live organ accompaniment by MoMA's Ben Model. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. $9 and $12. ''Grindhouse,'' a horror film by Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. $4.50 to $9. ''Children of Paradise,'' a French film by Marcel Carne. July 3 at 7:30 p.m. $4.50 to $9. Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423-7611; www.cinemaartscentre.org. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum Children's Summer Workshop, summer hat decorating using fabric paint. Ages 6 to 10. Wednesday at noon and 2 p.m. $3 and $8; reservations required. Children's Summer Workshop. Paint wooden dolphin statues. Ages 6 to 10. Thursday at noon and 2 p.m. $3 and $8; reservation required. Children's Summer Workshop, sailor's valentine, shell crafts. July 1 at 2 and 11 p.m. $3 and $8; reservation required. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater ''The Little Mermaid and the Prince'' and ''Snow White,'' adapted versions of classic children's stories. July 6 through Aug. 31, weekends at 2 p.m. $10. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum ''Hip-Hop Fusion,'' a multigenerational salute to hip-hop with dancers ranging from 12 to 52. June 22 at noon and 1:30 p.m. $2 and $6. ''Kangaroo Crossing,'' an exhibition designed to introduce children to the geography, geology, biology, economy, architecture, natural wonders and climate of Australia. Through Aug. 31. Free with museum admission. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www. licm.org. 
 OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center ''Sleeping Beauty,'' presented by the Children's Theater. Through June 28. $9. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810; www.cmpac.com. 
 ORIENT Oysterponds Historical Society ''Look at Me! Portraits of Webb House.'' Explore the portrait paintings of the Webb House and draw portraits of your own. June 28, 10 to 11:30 a.m. Registration required. Oysterponds Historical Society, Village Lane. (631) 323-2480. 
 RIVERHEAD Long Island Science Center ''Egyptian Adventure,'' with activities including making paper, wrapping a mummy and making a pyramid. Ages 5 to 12. June 30 through July 3. $200 and $225 per child, registration required. Long Island Science Center, 11 West Main Street. (631) 208-8000; www.lisciencecenter.org. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 FARMINGDALE Crazy Donkey Open Mic Night, presented by PopCore Entertainment and Music School. Mondays through June 30. $9. Crazy Donkey, 1058 Route 110. (631) 753-1975; www.thecrazydonkey.com. GLEN COVE Morgan Park Eden White Band, folk rock. July 6 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Morgan Park, Germaine Street and Landing Road. (516) 671-0017. 
 HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park Caumsett Summer Cultural Arts Festival, featuring children's theatrical performances, magic shows, puppet theater, theatrical and musical performances for adults, Shakespeare in the Park and more. June 28 through Aug. 17. Free. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770. 
 HUNTINGTON Chapin Rainbow Stage The Huntington Summer Arts Festival: Marie Knight, blues/gospel. June 22 at 8:30 p.m. Free. Chapin Rainbow Stage, Heckscher Park. (631) 271-8423, Extension 5. 
 LAWRENCE Peninsula Public Library ''The Legacy of George and Ira Gershwin,'' featuring Broadway, Hollywood and classical songs. June 22 at 7:30 p.m. Free, tickets required. Peninsula Public Library, 280 Central Avenue. (516) 239-3262. 
 OYSTER BAY Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park Boz Scaggs with a guest, David Jacobs-Strain, blues/rock. June 22 at 7:30 p.m. $35 to $120. Madeleine Peyroux, jazz singer and guitarist. June 28 at 8 p.m. $35 to $115. Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park, 1395 Planting Fields Road. (516) 922-9200; www.plantingfields.org. 
 PORT WASHINGTON Boat Harbor The North Shore Pops Concert Band. Friday at 8:15 p.m. Free. Boat Harbor, Main Street. (631) 864-2574. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center Pianofest, with an international cast of young artists and teachers. Monday, 5 to 7 p.m. $12; students free. Concerts in the Park Series, with performances by the Prelude and Peconic Youth Orchestras. Wednesday, 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. Free, donations welcomed. Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond Lane. (631) 287-4377; www.southamptonculturalcenter.org. 
 SOUTHOLD Silversmith's Corner Summer Showcase Concert Series, featuring the North Fork Chorale. June 29 at 7:30 p.m. Donations accepted. Silversmith's Corner, Town Green on Main Road. (631) 765-1800. 
 WANTAGH Nikon at Jones Beach Theater. Chicago and Doobie Brothers, rock. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $39 to $135. Stevie Nicks with Peter Cincotti. June 28 at 8 p.m. $30 to $125. Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, 1000 Ocean Parkway. (516) 221-1000. 
 WESTBURY Capital One Bank Theater Michael Bolton. July 2 at 8 p.m. $61.50 and $71.50. Hootie and the Blowfish with guests, the Drew Davis Band. July 3 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $71.50. Capital One Bank Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Dianne Reeves, jazz. June 28 at 8 p.m. $50 to $100. The Neville Brothers, New Orleans funk. July 5 at 8:30 p.m. $75 to $125. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org. 
 OUTDOORS
 KINGS PARK Sunken Meadow State Park Summer Run Series, a 10K running competition. Monday at 7 p.m. $15. Sunken Meadow State Park, Route 25A and Sunken Meadow Parkway. (631) 269-4333. 
 MONTAUK Hither Hills State Park Sandcastle Contest, castle sculpturing using sand, water and other beach materials. Prizes will be awarded. Thursday through Aug. 28. Registration required. Hither Hills State Park, 50 South Fairview Avenue. (631) 668-2554. 
 WANTAGH Jones Beach State Park Summer Run Series, a five-mile run. Thursday at 7 p.m. $15. Jones Beach State Park, Ocean Parkway. (631) 321-3510; www.active.com.
 SPOKEN WORD
 EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall Philip Schultz, poet, will read from his Pulitzer Prize-winning collection, ''Failure,'' a meditation on dreams and desires. June 22 at 4 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050. 
 HICKSVILLE Hicksville Public Library ''Basics of Rose Gardening,'' workshop with a professional gardener from the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Nassau County. Tuesday at 1 p.m. Free. Hicksville Public Library, 169 Jerusalem Avenue. (516) 931-1417. 
 SOUTHAMPTONParrish Art Museum Poetry Reading, poems inspired by the ''Studio as Muse'' exhibitions. July 4 at 8 p.m. Free. Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane. (631) 283-2118, Extension 32; www.parrishart.org. 
 THEATER
 BELLPORT Gateway Playhouse ''Forbidden Broadway,'' created and directed by Phillip George. Through July 6. $25 to $43. Gateway Playhouse, 215 South Country Road. (631) 286-1133. 
 MERRICK The Stage Theater ''Grand Hotel,'' musical based on the book by Luther Davis, with music and lyrics by Robert Wright and George Forrest. Through June 29. $14 and $18. The Stage Theater, 2222 Hewlett Avenue. (516) 868-6400; www.thestageinmerrick.com. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Shanghai Moon,'' by Charles Busch, $55. Through June 30. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 AMAGANSETT Crazy Monkey Gallery ''Natural Bodies,'' works by Sally Breen, painter, and Setha Low, sculptor. Through Monday. Thursdays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Crazy Monkey Gallery, 136 Main Street. (631) 267-3627; www.thecrazymonkeygallery.com. 
 BELLPORT Ratio Gallery ''Open-Air Painting,'' contemporary landscapes by Maddine Insalaco. Through July 20. Free. Hours: Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; all other days by appointment. Ratio Gallery, 10 Bell Street. (631) 286-4020. 
 CAPTREE Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society Seventh Annual Benefit Art Show, featuring local artists displaying nautical themed artwork. Thursday through July 20. Free. Reception: June 26, 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Fire Island Lighthouse Preservation Society, 4640 Captree. (631) 661-4876. 
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum ''Pirates!'' an exhibition that explores the mystery and folklore of pirates, using artifacts and art. Through Aug. 1. $4 and $5; children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Whaling Museum, Main Street. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org. 
 DIX HILLS Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery ''Conversations in Paint,'' group show. Wednesday through July 27. Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery, 107 East Deer Park Road. (631) 462-5400. 
 EAST HAMPTON The Drawing Room ''Adam Bartos: Yard Sales,'' an exhibition of archival pigment prints. Through July 7. Free. Hours: Mondays and Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. The Drawing Room, 16R Newtown Lane. (631) 324-5016; www.drawingroom-gallery.com. 
 EAST ISLIPIslip Art Museum ''Site Specific '08,'' an exhibition of installations and mixed-media works by artists from the Carriage House. Through July 27. Donation: $3. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Islip Art Museum, 50 Irish Lane. (631) 224-5402; www.
 islipartmuseum.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Barnes Gallery ''By the Light of the Garden,'' an exhibition of works by Jacqueline Barrett. Through June 28. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Barnes Gallery, 2 Nassau Boulevard. (516) 538-4503. 
 GREENPORT Sirens' Song Gallery ''Waterworks,'' prints by Cynthia Back. Through June 29. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 7 p.m. Sirens' Song Gallery, 516 Main Street. www.sirensongallery.com. (631) 477-1021.
 HEMPSTEAD Hofstra Museum ''On Location: Women Photographers From the Hofstra University Museum Collection,'' featuring works by Berenice Abbott, Diane Arbus, Marilyn Bridges, Erica Lennard, Mary Ellen Mark and Sally Gall. Through Friday. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hofstra Museum, 112 Hofstra University. (516) 463-5672. 
 HUNTINGTON B.J. Spoke Gallery ''Reflections and Revisions,'' photographs and sculpture by Elsa Blum. Through June 29. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. B.J. Spoke Gallery, 299 Main Street. (631) 549-5106. 
 HUNTINGTON Fotofoto Gallery ''Your Best Shot,'' exhibition and photography competition. Through July 13. Free. Hours: Fridays, 5 to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 9 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Fotofoto Gallery, 372 New York Avenue. (631) 549-0448; fotofotogallery.com. 
 HUNTINGTONHeckscher Museum of Art ''To Infinity and Beyond: Mathematics in Contemporary Art.'' Through June 22. $4 to $8; children under 10 and members, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue. (631) 351-3250; www.heckscher.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Huntington Public Library ''His Paris, New York, London and Venice,'' an exhibition of works by Stokely Webster. June 30 through July 26. Free. Huntington Public Library, 338 Main Street. (631) 427-5165. 
 MANHASSET Unitarian Universalist Congregation at Shelter Rock The Manhasset Art Association presents ''Celebration of Art,'' in honor of its 60th anniversary. Through Wednesday. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 3 p.m. Unitarian Universalist Congregation at Shelter Rock, 48 Shelter Rock Road. (516) 627-6560. 
 QUOGUE Quogue Library Art Gallery ''Sporting Art,'' a multimedia group show of Long Island artists displaying recreational and sporting activities. Through June 30. Hours: Sundays and Mondays, noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Quogue Library Art Gallery, 90 Quogue Street. (631) 653-4224. 
 ROSLYN HARBORNassau County Museum of Art ''Iris Apfel: Rare Bird of Fashion,'' an exhibition of clothing, accessories and jewelry from Ms. Apfel's collection. Through Sept. 7. $4 to $10. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; www.nassaumuseum.com. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Parrish Art Museum ''Paper Transformed: Origami.'' Through June 22. $7; seniors and students, $5; children under 18, free. Hours: Mondays and Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane. (631) 283-2118; www.parrishart.org. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center Photographs by Kenneth Van Sickle, from 1955 to 2005. Through July 6. Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond Lane. (631) 287-4377; www.southamptonculturalcenter.org. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Historical Museum ''Sporting Life in the Hamptons: The Lillywhite Family Collection,'' an exhibition displaying early sporting interests in the Hamptons and a first-time look at a family legacy collection. Through Aug. 30. $4; seniors, $3; students, $2. ''Lighthouse Paintings,'' depictions of East End lighthouses by Ellen d'Pazzi. Through Aug. 30. $4; seniors, $3; students, $2. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Southampton Historical Museum, 17 Meeting House Lane. (631) 283-2494; www.southamptonhistoricalmuseum.org. 
 UNIONDALE Uniondale Public Library ''Digital Renaissance: Still Lives Recaptured,'' photographs by Richard Ritter. Through July 31. Free. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Fridays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Uniondale Public Library, 400 Uniondale Avenue. (516) 489-2220. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WESTBURY: Patti LaBelle, R&B/soul singer, will perform at the Capital One Bank Theater on June 28 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $61.50 and $76.50. 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800
www.livenation.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. LI11)
ST. JAMES: ''Drum Circle,'' by Sabrina Peros from ''The Art of Music,'' an exhibition of artwork that depicts the environment of musical experiences at the Smithtown Township Arts Council. On view through July 13. 660 Route 25A. (631) 862-6575
www.stacarts.org. (pg. LI13)
BAY SHORE: Jay and the Americans, a pop group, will be onstage at the Boulton Center for the Performing Arts on Friday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $47.50. 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101
www.boultoncenter.com. (pg. LI13)
OAKDALE: Danny Amy as Jesus and Frank Gabriel as Judas in ''Jesus Christ Superstar,'' a musical, at the CM Performing Arts Center, with performances through June 29. Tickets are $16 to $22. 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810
 www.cmpac.com. (pg. LI13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); FESTIVALS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); DANCERS (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%); HORROR FILMS (68%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (64%); THEATER (56%)

PERSON: HOWIE MANDEL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



559 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3939 words

HEADLINE: And The Band Honked On

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
 THE classroom filled with the sounds of a band struggling to be born, a cacophony of squealing and buzzing. Middle school students in a working-class Brooklyn neighborhood were trying to produce the note F. 
 It was early in the school year. A young professional French horn player named Alana Vegter, a thoroughbred musician trained by elite teachers, took a handful of trumpet and trombone players into an equipment supply room. Speaking in the flat tones of the Chicago suburb where she grew up, Ms. Vegter tried to coax notes out of each player. A tall sixth-grade trumpeter named Kenny Ocean, his pants sagging around his hips, played too high, then too low. A smile spread across his face when he hit it right. 
 ''You see, every time you do it, it gets easier,'' Ms. Vegter said. On her cue they all bleated together. ''I'm starting to hear everybody making nice, healthy sounds,'' she said, half in praise, half in hope. 
 So began Ms. Vegter's year in Ditmas Junior High School, Intermediate School 62, in the Kensington section of Brooklyn. It was a year that would teach her the satisfaction of tiny victories in a place where homelessness means that some kids cannot take their instruments home to practice, where chronic asthma forces some to switch from wind instruments to percussion, where the roar of a lunchroom leaves a newcomer stunned.
 Ms. Vegter, 25, was there as part of a well-financed experiment by some of the nation's most powerful musical institutions. The experiment is called, clumsily, the Academy -- a Program of Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Institute (the institute being an arm of Carnegie). 
 In its second season, which ended this month, the academy extended fellowships to 34 graduates of leading music schools to receive high-level coaching and lessons in a two-year program. They play concerts on Carnegie's stages and participate in master classes. Part of the deal is a commitment to teach one and a half days a week at a New York public school, which pays the academy $13,200 for the service.
 The idea is ambitious: Mold a new kind of musician in a time of declining audiences and -- seemingly -- dwindling relevance for classical music. Performers focused intently on artistic development are being asked to step outside themselves and spend time away from their instruments.
 ''We are working to equip musicians who will continue to grow,'' said Clive Gillinson, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall. ''We're looking at the life of the musician of the future, what it could be and what it will be. If we can enable musicians to become utterly fulfilled, they will end up contributing far more to society and to music.''
 It is a noble goal, and maybe a tall order, given the glut of musicians who continue to pour out of music schools to face a life that has always been tough psychically and economically -- whether for a Mozart groveling before royalty or a modern-day conservatory grad struggling through orchestra auditions in the provinces.
 The academy is also intended to give a concrete boost to music education, which is held to be in serious decline: both a cause and an effect of the diminishing stature of classical music. 
 The program had its growing pains. One fellow was asked to leave for blowing off his teaching commitment. Others scoffed at the mushiness of teacher-training sessions. And a year spent following Ms. Vegter at Ditmas showed how high-minded concepts can run smack into reality.
 At the same time the year demonstrated how one talented musician could be made wiser as a player and person, and how a little personal attention from an emissary of high culture could improve the lives of children.
 MS. VEGTER, WITH HER AUBURN HAIR pulled back in a ponytail, has the carriage of a jock and the looks of a prom queen, which she once was. But her jock world was band, and her town of 13,000 people, Lemont, Ill., is band country. It is a community where music education works. 
 The majority of middle schoolers are in band. Competitions begin in the sixth grade. Band boosters pay for travel, instruments and uniforms. Band alumni come back for homecoming. The Lemont High School band won the state championship in its division from 1998 to 2005, including three of Ms. Vegter's years there. Four of her classmates are professional musicians. ''People respected it,'' she said.
 She was held in awe by fellow students in high school. ''She was probably one of our top one or two or three all-time that we've had,'' said David Nommensen, her band director.
 Ms. Vegter's father owns a carpet-cleaning company. Her mother died when she was 16. Inspired by a French horn-playing baby sitter, she began the instrument at 10 and showed immediate talent. 
 At DePaul University in Chicago she studied with Jon Boen, the principal of the Lyric Opera of Chicago. She played in the school band and orchestra and in the respected Civic Orchestra of Chicago, a training ground of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. She went off to Juilliard for her master's degree, one of two horn players admitted as graduate students that year, and studied with the exacting Julie Landsman, a co-principal of the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra. 
 On the cusp of a career Ms. Vegter displays the idealism of the young. ''I am a musician simply because music is what makes me most happy in life,'' she wrote this spring in an e-mail message distilling her feelings. ''Nothing else measures up. Not a steady paycheck, not social status.'' 
 Her instrument is fickle. Yet ''when everything lines up and playing the horn feels easy,'' she said, ''I feel so incredibly alive.''
 Ms. Vegter is realistic about her prospects. She wants to play in a major orchestra but knows how hard it is to win a spot. Yet she remains sunny. ''People who work hard and mean well tend to have things work out,'' she said. Whatever happens, music will remain a large part of her life, she said.
 BY LATE OCTOBER all the fellows had been assigned schools and teachers to work with. For Ms. Vegter, it would be Meghan McDevitt. She too was a 25-year-old product of a Midwestern suburb -- Hudson, Ohio, near Cleveland -- and a self-proclaimed band nerd.
 Ms. McDevitt was hired in 2006 by I.S. 62's principal, Barry Kevorkian, to revive a moribund band program. She had her work cut out for her when she arrived that year and walked into the band room. ''I opened the doors, and we had instruments from 50 years ago,'' she recalled. ''I said, 'O.K., let's go.' '' The school allotted her $20,000 to buy new instruments. She teaches three bands and a general music class, and gives individual instruction. The work, she said, has proved exhausting.
 Ms. McDevitt is one of 958 music teachers for 1.1 million students in New York public schools.
 The Education Department says it has increased the amount of arts education, including music, in recent years. It did not provide figures on how many students receive music instruction but said 69 percent of middle schools offered music during the 2006-7 year. Thirty-one percent of seventh graders and 25 percent of eighth graders received some music education. But nearly one out of five schools had no full-time arts teacher.
 Music education -- all arts education -- was gutted during the city's fiscal crisis in the mid-1970s. Before that almost all children in the system were exposed to music, whether chorus, band, orchestra or general classes, said Richard Kessler, executive director of the Center for Arts Education, which supports arts education in the city's schools. They filled the ranks of all-borough and all-city ensembles, took private lessons and theory classes and played chamber music on weekends.
 ON OCT. 16, MS. VEGTER'S FIRST DAY of school, she took the subway from an apartment on West 71st Street in Manhattan that she shares with a roommate, riding the Q train to the Cortelyou Road stop. She passed a halal butcher, a Dominican hairdresser and a Mexican restaurant in a classically hodgepodge New York neighborhood, where Orthodox Jews in long coats share the sidewalks with Muslim women in head scarves.
 Turning the corner, Ms. Vegter walked into a 1956 brick building formally called the Ditmas Educational Complex. It has four minischools, including one for the performing and visual arts, and a mostly black, Latino and Asian student body. Some 97 percent of the students are eligible to receive free lunches. Fliers in eight languages are posted in the vestibule.
 In the afternoon she stood before the 650-750 band class, as the class for more promising sixth and seventh graders is known. 
 ''Today we have Ms. Vegter,'' Ms. McDevitt said. ''She's from Carnegie Hall.'' She asked Ms. Vegter to demonstrate her instrument.
 ''I'm going to play something by Mozart,'' Ms. Vegter said. ''I'm sure you've already heard of him.''
 Swaying slightly with her eyes closed, she played the opening notes of Mozart's Fourth Horn Concerto. Her burnished sound filled the basement room, where a heavily scratched upright piano with a half dozen black keys broken off stood against a wall. A bass drum rattled slightly. 
 The children sat facing their black music stands, some of them staring at her. She stopped and smiled to sluggish applause.
 ''I actually do this for a living,'' she said, pulling a card out of her sleeve: she had recently played in the backup band for Kanye West at the BET Hip-Hop Awards. That drew a stirring of smiles and ''Wows.'' 
 The questions began pouring out. Did she tour with other famous musicians? Was she famous? Were her parents musicians? How old was she? Did she want to travel as a child?
 ''How long do you plan to play?'' asked Armani Kingsberry, a sharp-eyed boy with braids assigned to the snare drum.
 ''I guess for my whole life,'' Ms. Vegter said. ''I can't really imagine my life without it.''
 After class she described her fears: ''I really want to make an impact in the classroom, just as I do other things well. The scariest part is that I may not make a difference.'' The contrast with her upbringing was driven home. ''I hate to think there are people who don't sleep on beds,'' Ms. Vegter said. 
 AT SCHOOL, MS. VEGTER WORKED to have her students produce the most rudimentary of sounds. Outside, she was near the highest technical level of her profession. 
 In November she performed with other fellows at Weill Recital Hall as part of an academy concert series, a perk of the program. She played one of the horn's most challenging chamber works, the Ligeti Horn Trio, with violin and piano, which had never been played at Carnegie. The piece requires extraordinary agility, the ability to play with exquisite softness both high and low (especially tough on the horn) and a mastery of complex rhythms. Ms. Vegter had practiced so hard that there was a cut inside her lower lip.
 She said she felt a divide between the worlds of Ditmas and Ligeti but also knew that one allowed the other to happen, because of the fellowship.
 The sizable audience included many fellows. Ms. Vegter's father, Thomas Vegter, was there too, with three other couples from Chicago. She came onstage in a sleeveless black top and black slacks, businesslike as ever. 
 When playing she kept the slender fingers of her left hand, which control the valves, high in the air. Her brow furrowed; her eyebrows jumped with the notes; her tone vibrated slightly. She responded to the applause with two stiff bows. She came out into the audience and greeted her father, a tall man with a rugged face, with a quiet ''Hi, Dad.''
 ''I wouldn't have missed it for the world,'' Mr. Vegter said. ''I was almost crying.'' 
 EARLY IN THE TERM Ms. Vegter's classroom work seemed to bear little relationship to the sophisticated training offered by the academy. She was struggling just to remember names, tapping out beats, unsticking trumpet valves, showing what valve to press. 
 She was struggling against frustration too. ''It's not going to happen overnight,'' she said. ''I only spend so much time there, so I can't really expect a ton.'' Kenny, who had shown flashes of talent, had been out for a week. For the first time she found herself disciplining disobedient children.
 In November her teaching grew more sophisticated. She had the trumpeters finger their notes silently. Then they played in a cacophonic unison. ''I want to hear the front of the notes,'' she said. ''We want to make sure the notes have bodies. Not only fronts but bodies.'' And later: ''Connect your stomach to the front of your mouth.''
 Outside school, there had been a big development: Ms. Vegter's fiance, Ben Gartrell, a doctor awaiting his residency assignment, had proposed after a nerve-rackingly long dinner. She said yes.
 THE TIME HAD ARRIVED for the 650-750 band to perform, at the Christmas concert. It was a cold, sleety evening in mid-December. The kids wore black pants and white tops. Bryan Sanchez, a trumpeter and one of the group's best performers, had a crisply ironed white shirt. 
 In a classroom before the concert, band members warmed up, practiced and goofed around, trying one another's instruments. Five of the 16 members were absent. Some of the kids were worried the other students would make fun of them.
 ''Don't get nervous,'' Ms. McDevitt said. ''Do what you have to do.'' 
 With Ms. Vegter and the visiting Dr. Gartrell in the back, the curtain opened slowly. Ms. McDevitt walked onstage and conducted ''Hot Cross Buns,'' with a bass drum thumping. After lukewarm applause, the curtain closed. When the players went to sit in the back of the theater, they wore big smiles of relief.
 BACK AT DITMAS after the Christmas break Ms. Vegter picked up her work with Gary Zeng, a tiny sixth grader not much bigger than his chosen instrument, the tuba. Before class one day she tried to coax out a note. No luck. She had Gary sing it, then asked him match his voice to her trumpet. ''Yeah!'' she said when he finally did it. Then she tried to have him play the note on his tuba. Nothing doing.
 ''You can only say something in so many ways, and then you run out of ways,'' she said later. 
 The members of the 650-750 band drifted in and settled in their seats, including Usman Ali, with his familiar spider-web-patterned jacket, sitting next to Bryan, his fellow trumpeter. Bryan's grandmother, Sara Esperanza Ramirez, who cares for him, had given him a blue trumpet purchased on eBay for Christmas so he would not have to risk having the school instrument stolen on the way home from school. ''It's a little dangerous,'' she said.
 Playing ''Bring On da Band,'' the group showed improvement. It was still plodding along, with notes not always coming out and intonation approximate, but there were real lines of music.
 As thunder rumbled, a tired-looking Ms. Vegter sat on the end of the trumpet row and said little. She still wasn't sure whether she was helping. She also had doubts about ambitions to develop musicians in city schools. ''It's unrealistic,'' she said. What can work for the students is to ''make their lives a little bit better through music.'' 
 But little things made her feel appreciated: Gary Zeng's continuing lunchtime visits, the occasional smile at her in the hallway, a growing connection to the students. ''I can tell you one personal thing about every one,'' she said.
 MS. VEGTER HAD BEEN WAITING for the chance to take some kids to her house, Carnegie Hall. Few had heard classical music of any sort, much less been there.
 Their young Brooklyn eyes took in the gold leaf and shimmering lights, shyly but intently. They clapped softly, following the audience's lead, as the concertmaster made his ritual walk through the ranks of musicians, took the A from the oboe and tuned the orchestra.
 The field trip had not started spectacularly. Ms. Vegter had obtained 16 tickets from Carnegie. But only four children showed up for the trip at Ditmas. Kenny Ocean had shown up too early and left.
 At least this was better than a field trip to the Apollo Theater in Harlem last fall to hear an orchestra. Then, late buses caused the students to miss all but 10 minutes of the concert and kept them waiting 90 minutes to go home.
 On this Sunday in January, the performance was a young people's concert by the Fort Worth Symphony featuring ''Peter and the Wolf,'' with John Lithgow as the narrator. Ms. Vegter showed a sense of proprietary pride. 
 ''I think that's Julie, one of my friends' mother, who plays flute in the orchestra,'' she told one student, Samantha Rhodes. To another, Jonathan Saint Surin, she said: ''This orchestra is from Texas. They came all the way here to play.'' 
 Gary, the tiny tuba player, kept his coat on and leaned precipitously over the railing to watch. 
 The orchestra plunged into Reznicek's ''Donna Diana'' Overture. Jonathan, wearing an oversize white shirt, kept his hands clasped. Samantha, in white stockings and high heels, held her program, thumbs on top. In ''Peter'' Samantha tapped her forefinger on the program when the flute came in. Gary leaned forward when the wolf theme reared ominously. 
 Afterward it was off to Starbucks for hot chocolate before the subway ride home.
 ALREADY FOUR MONTHS AT THE SCHOOL, Ms. Vegter had never actually played at length for the students. Late in January she arranged for two other academy brass players to join her in a trio performance at an assembly. 
 Erin Lynch, the dean of students, delivered a stern warning to the auditorium. No talking, no hoods, no gum chewing. ''I want you to listen and enjoy,'' she barked in a bullhorn voice. 
 Ms. Vegter talked briefly about the horn -- how its coils, if stretched out, would reach 14 feet (a number she improvised) -- and played some notes. The next piece came from the Renaissance period, she said. ''We're talking super, super old,'' like an ''old-school Nintendo compared to a Nintendo Wii.'' 
 Teachers stood on the aisles, scanning the rows for miscreants. Many students sat slumped in their chairs, and the fidgeting grew as the period went on. But Gary and Samantha sat attentively. The trio played music from ''Star Wars,'' a tango and Scott Joplin's ''Maple Leaf Rag.'' 
 Another batch of students came in for a second round. Ms. Lynch yanked a portable video game player out of the hands of Kelvonne Williams, an eighth grader whose jaw was wired shut. (A fellow student had punched him after a football game.) The corn-rowed Kelvonne, wearing jeans and a dark hoodie, at first looked peeved. But he watched the trio fixedly, his hands clasped in his lap. He let out a broad smile at the ''Star Wars'' theme. 
 ''It was interesting, the way they played it,'' he said of the performance. ''I was listening to the melody and stuff.'' The best part? ''The guy over there, what was he playing? I forget.'' It was the trumpet. 
 MS. VEGTER KEPT UP HER COMMITMENT, going to Ditmas one or two days a week. She and Ms. McDevitt were still disappointed with the progress of Kenny, the tall sixth-grade trumpeter. He continued to lack focus, despite obvious talent.
 Steve Garwood, a saxophone player, had been disruptive since Ms. Vegter's first day, when he took his neighbor's saxophone crook and refused to give it back, incessantly repeating, ''I am a gangsta.'' But Ms. Vegter said his behavior improved after she gave him some personal attention. She found him crying one day. Steve, who wears a stud earring, said he was terrified of punishment at home for getting into a fight. Ms. Vegter asked an administrator to intervene. ''He craves something to grab onto,'' she said. 
 Armani was flourishing, assuming leadership of the percussion section and perfecting a drumstick twirl. He hated to make mistakes. Omar Butt, a seventh grader, had recently been out with asthma, and his mother had him taken off the clarinet because of the ailment. He now played bells and said he was disappointed. ''I like the clarinet,'' he said. 
 Ms. Vegter seemed more at ease, unafraid to be tough. At class on April 1 she did not let a sax student get away with playing less than the full length of the notes. ''We have to work on blending,'' she told the saxes. ''If you hear yourself, it's too loud.'' She chastised one student for making fun of another's mistake. ''What we need is positive encouragement,'' she said, later hitting on the idea of having each section applaud an individual player. 
 Professionally things were going well for Ms. Vegter. She was landing a lot of freelance jobs, with the Symphony in C of Camden, N.J., the Harrisburg Symphony, the Cleveland Chamber Orchestra and the Syracuse Symphony. ''Things are fun,'' she said.
 IN EARLY JUNE Ms. McDevitt's bands played in the school's year-end performance. Ms. Vegter sat in with her French horn. The hall was packed with families, mothers nursing babies and grandparents holding bouquets. The most raucous reception was reserved for the dancers.
 Ms. McDevitt's bands played ably, despite a faulty sound system, interrupting school bells and a seventh-grade percussion section that got off track. Kenny failed to show up, as did a half-dozen other players in each band. Kenny said that he was sick, and that his father would not let him come. A steady hum filled the room, and the response paled in comparison with the enthusiasm for the dance numbers.
 So Ms. Vegter's year at Ditmas came to an end. She said she hoped to return next year, for the kids. ''They need me,'' she said. ''They appreciate me.'' 
 But it did not look good. Financing cuts by the city meant there was no money to pay for her position, said Mr. Kevorkian, the principal. ''I happen to love the program,'' he added. ''I thought Alana did a great job, not only for our children but for Meghan.'' 
 He said he still hoped enough money would be restored to bring Ms. Vegter back. Meanwhile she was beginning her new life in New York with Dr. Gartrell, who planned to spend a year working here before his residency. The week after the concert she signed a lease on a one-bedroom apartment on the East Side. Her last academy concert for the year was on June 13.
 THE ACADEMY'S administrators learned some lessons: for one, it is not easy finding talented musicians willing to make the teaching commitment. Overall, Juilliard's president, Joseph W. Polisi, said he was pleased at the connection the fellows had made with the students while keeping the artistic level of the concerts high.
 Ms. Vegter, for her part, said she realized that she could never engage in Ms. McDevitt's grueling career. But she said she learned other lessons as well: how to be more patient, how to communicate better, how important a little focus can be for attention-starved children.
 ''It's not just about teaching them the notes,'' she said. The need was driven home by a question from a troublesome sixth grader, who asked out of the blue if she was going to leave. ''I'm not going anywhere,'' she told him. 
 She acknowledged another surprising result, that ''sharing what I love with other people sometimes is more satisfying than playing.'' After a concert, she said, the connection with the audience is broken.
 ''With kids it's sustained,'' she added. ''It's one thing I'm doing in the world that makes me feel like I'm making a difference.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The cover article this weekend about a horn player who helped teach students at Ditmas Junior High School in Brooklyn how to play instruments misstates the percentage by which New York City's financing cuts reduced the school's budget. The school lost 1.4 percent of its financing, not 13 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For Alana Vegter, recently out of Juilliard, working with young novices like Gary Zeng on the tuba and, below, Armani Kingsberry on drums was a new experience (pg. AR20)
Cayla Turner and other Ditmas students at a concert at Carnegie Hall in January. At left, the school's spring concert (pg. AR21)
Alana Vegter spent the past school year alternating between coaching Ditmas students and playing French horn in concerts at Carnegie Hall and elsewhere (pg. A21)
From left, Kenny Ocean, Maria Palacio and Cartney St. Fleur, band students at Ditmas Junior High in the Kensington section of Brooklyn (pg. AR21)
Omar Butt, near right
Shayne Pierre Joseph, center
and Bryan Sanchez were among the students learning to play in the Ditmas Junior High band this past school year (pg. AR20)
 ALANA VEGTER spent the school year building her credentials as a professional musician while coaching students in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. AR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (68%); CHRONIC DISEASES (50%); ASTHMA (50%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



560 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Food Stamps Buy Less, and Families Are Hit Hard

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Making ends meet on food stamps has never been easy for Cassandra Johnson, but since food prices began their steep climb earlier this year, she has had to develop new survival strategies.
 She hunts for items that are on the shelf beyond their expiration dates because their prices are often reduced, a practice she once avoided. 
 Ms. Johnson, 44, who works in customer service for a medical firm, knows that buying food this way is not healthy, but she sees no other choice if she wants to feed herself and her 1-year-old niece Ammni Harris and 2-year-old nephew Tramier Harris, who live with her. 
 ''I live paycheck to paycheck,'' said Ms. Johnson, as she walked out of a market near her home in Hackensack, N.J., pushing both Ammni and the week's groceries in a shopping cart. ''And we're not coping.''
 The sharp rise in food prices is being felt acutely by poor families on food stamps, the federal food assistance program. 
 In the past year, the cost of food for what the government considers a minimum nutritional diet has risen 7.2 percent nationwide. It is on track to become the largest increase since 1989, according to April data, the most recent numbers, from the United States Department of Agriculture. The prices of certain staples have risen even more. The cost of eggs, for example, has increased nearly 20 percent, and the price of milk and other dairy products has risen 10 percent.
 But food stamp allocations, intended to cover only minimum needs, have not changed since last fall and will not rise again until October, when an increase linked to inflation will take effect. The percentage, equal to the annual rise in prices for the minimum nutritional food basket as measured each June, is usually announced by early August.
 Some advocates and politicians say that this relief will not come soon enough and will probably not be adequate to keep pace with inflation. 
 Stacy Dean, the director of food assistance for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington social issues research and advocacy organization, estimates that the rising food prices have resulted in two fewer bags of groceries a month for the families most reliant on the program.
 ''We know food stamps are falling short $34 a month'' of the monthly $576 that the government says it costs a family of four to eat nutritional meals, she said. ''The sudden price increases on top of everything else like soaring fuel and health care have meant squeeze and strain that is unprecedented since the late 1970s.'' 
 The declining buying power of food stamps has not gone unrecognized in Washington. In May, Congress passed a farm bill that would raise the minimum amount of food stamps that families receive, starting in October. The bill, which was passed over President Bush's veto, will also raise for the first time since 1996 the amount of income that families of fewer than four can keep for costs like housing or fuel without having their benefits reduced. 
 This month, a coalition led by Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. called on Congress to immediately enact a temporary 20 percent increase in food stamps. Officials at the Agriculture Department, which administers the program, say there is no precedent for such an action. Families on food stamps have been hit hard across the nation, but perhaps not as hard as families in New York, where food costs are substantially higher than prices almost everywhere else, including other urban areas, according to the Food Research and Action Center, a research and advocacy group in Washington. 
 The more than one million New Yorkers on food stamps receive on average $107 a month in assistance, which is slightly higher than the average for the rest of the country. But it is not enough to close the gap in food costs, experts say.
 Poor families interviewed in the New York area say that they are not going hungry -- thanks in large part to the city's strong network of 1,200 soup kitchens and food pantries -- but that they have really felt the pinch. To cope, many say, they are doing without the basics.
 June Jacobs-Cuffee of Brooklyn shares $120 a month in food stamps with her 19-year-old epileptic son. She says that even after her once-a-month trip to the food pantry at St. John's Bread & Life in Brooklyn, she has had to give up red meat and is also cutting back on buying fresh fruits and sticking instead with canned goods and fruit cocktail. 
 ''It is not a question of running out, yet,'' she said. ''But it does require very careful budgeting.''
 The most recent census data showed that from 2003 to 2006 an average of 1.3 million New Yorkers identified themselves as ''food insecure,'' meaning that they were worried about being able to buy enough food to keep their families adequately fed. City officials are concerned that the food price increase has caused that number to increase significantly. 
 ''I am much more worried about the state of hunger in New York City than I was 6 or 12 months ago,'' said Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker. Ms. Quinn said that food pantries were increasingly complaining about being tapped out. She added, ''What we are hearing from constituents is that they are having to make tougher and tougher decisions like to water down milk for kids or not purchase medication to keep money for food.''
 Yessenia Villar, who lives in Washington Heights and works tutoring children in Spanish and English, knows about tough choices. She says it is getting harder to stretch her monthly $190 in food stamps to cover food for herself, her mother and her 5-year-old daughter. At the end of the month, she runs out of oil, rice and, most painful of all, plantains, which have gone from five for $1 to two for $1, she says.
 She says she has stopped buying extras like summer sandals for herself, and has also given up treats like cookies and ice cream for her daughter. ''I used to make all my groceries for $150 a month and then have a little extra,'' she said. ''Now it is, like, crazy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: June Jacobs-Cuffee of Brooklyn now opts for canned goods because of the rising prices. ''It does require very careful budgeting,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A23)
 Top, a salsa-making class with Jennifer Horan, a nutritionist, right, at St. John's Bread & Life. Above, June Jacobs- Cuffee, who receives food stamps, buys groceries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) CHART: What a family of four, eating the cheapest meals, spent on food a year ago, and what inflation has added through May 2008. (Source: Statistics from the United States Department of Agriculture and the Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FAMILY (87%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILK (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



561 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: To Help Those on the Lowest Rungs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''After 75 Years, the Working Poor Still Struggle for a Fair Wage,'' by Adam Cohen (Editorial Observer, June 17):
 While raising the minimum wage is necessary, it is not sufficient to improve the financial well-being of most low-wage workers. 
 Government policy makers must learn from the positive effects of the welfare-to-work strategies of the Clinton administration. The support services provided to those who leave welfare are valuable for many other groups that employers are reluctant to hire, including those with criminal records. 
 In addition, an expansion and strengthening of vocational programs at community colleges is crucial to skill development and wage growth. 
 The government must also reduce the phasing out of benefits from the earned income tax credit and food stamps so that wage increases are not offset by the reduction in benefits from these and other means-tested programs. 
 A comprehensive strategy, with a higher minimum wage as its foundation, can enable many families to distance themselves from poverty. 
 Robert Cherry Brooklyn, June 17, 2008
 The writer is a professor of economics at Brooklyn College.
 To the Editor:
 The minimum wage isn't only a matter of assisting the working poor. It's also a matter of assisting the broader middle class and achieving a more fair and equitable wage distribution. 
 According to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Current Population Survey, after New York State increased its minimum wage to $6.75 an hour from $6 in 2006, the median wage also rose for those who had been earning up to at least 91 percent over the state minimum wage and most likely rose above that. 
 Meanwhile, in those states that still had the federal minimum wage of $5.15 an hour, the median wages of those making up to at least 91 percent over the minimum wage were stagnant. 
 The real opposition from businesses to raising the minimum wage comes from the obligation they feel to raise the wages of those who earn somewhat more than the statutory minimum wage. 
 Given that a minimum wage that keeps up with, say, the rate of inflation may put an end to wage stagnation at the bottom of the wage distribution and among the lower middle class, the overall welfare benefits cannot be overstated.
 Oren M. Levin-Waldman New York, June 17, 2008
 The writer is a professor of public policy at Metropolitan College.
 To the Editor:
 We commend Adam Cohen for calling attention to the importance of the minimum wage and for pointing out that in real dollars, that wage is worth far less than it was in the 1960s. 
 Mr. Cohen rightly notes that public work supports, like the earned income tax credit and subsidized health insurance, are also effective ways to help low-wage workers. But another issue -- child care -- also needs our attention. 
 Good care is unaffordable even for many middle-income families -- in nearly every state, center-based care for two children costs more than the state's median rent. 
 Research is clear that providing children with high-quality care in their earliest years improves school achievement, which, down the road, means a stronger work force. 
 In addition to higher wages and health insurance, our nation should make affordable child care for all families a priority.
 Nancy K. Cauthen New York, June 17, 2008
 The writer is deputy director, National Center for Children in Poverty at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAMILY (76%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); STATISTICS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



562 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: Becoming the Boss

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
FOR many female entrepreneurs, necessity is the mother of their venture. Take Carla Schneider, 40, of Orange, whose product, the WubbaNub, a silicon pacifier with a small stuffed animal attached, has been used in neonatal intensive care units and by mothers of fussy babies around the country. 
 Ms. Schneider invented it during the first family vacation that she and her husband, Bret, took with their son, also Bret, now 9. Three months old at the time, Bret would sleep only with a pacifier in his mouth, but it kept falling out.
 ''He was a very colicky baby, and that pacifier was something that was golden to me,'' Ms. Schneider recalled. So she sewed it onto a stuffed animal that Bret liked to cling to, and it stayed put.
 ''I got stopped on the street numerous times for a couple months after that, so I basically kind of took the ball and ran with it,'' said Ms. Schneider, a former special education teacher who followed in the entrepreneurial footsteps of her mother, who runs a nonprofit agency. 
 For women who want flexible hours, autonomy, and the chance to profit from ideas their corporate bosses often overlook, nap time is very much over. 
 The New York metropolitan area has more than a half million businesses owned by women, employing 533,437 people. These businesses have brought in $93 million in receipts this year, according to the Center for Women's Business Research, in Washington.
 For years, women have been twice as likely as men to start their own businesses. And even though the current economic downturn has made credit even harder to come by for small-business owners, particularly women, since 2002 there has been an 8.9 percent increase in the number of businesses owned by women, a 2.3 percent increase in employees of companies owned by women, and a 16.6 percent increase in receipts at such companies, according to the women's business research center.
 Ms. Schneider, who works out of her home, named her product the WubbaNub, after her favorite stuffed dog from childhood. After selling enough WubbaNubs wholesale (they retail for $11.95) her eight-year-old company, which also makes Wubbie baby blankets, is now profitable. 
 ''Last year we tripled our revenue, so we are in the six figures, over half a million at this point and climbing,'' said Ms. Schneider, who has five part-time employees.
 She says she enjoys being in charge of her own time. 
 ''I'm working late at night, but I can go to the children's play or their doctor's appointment,'' said Ms. Schneider, who also has a daughter, Alaina, 4. ''I don't have the stress of finding someone to watch the baby.'' 
 For 10 years Lisa Krizner-George had worked as a draper, making costumes for Broadway shows like ''Wicked,'' ''Hairspray'' and ''Oklahoma!'' She took sketches from designers and turned fantasies into fabric. But becoming a designer herself would have required an extra degree and starting over in the kind of company where she worked. 
 ''It was something I'd always dreamed of,'' said Ms. Krizner-George, 42. ''I really wanted to get back into designing.'' 
 So Vanilla Pink was born, in January 2007, six months after her son, Graeme.
 Ms. Krizner-George works in a studio in her garage in Bloomfield, N.J., designing custom bridal dresses and evening wear, first fashioning them in muslin, then with real fabric, allowing for several fittings and revisions at the customer's request.
 She enjoys being up to her elbows in duchess satin, silk gazar or chiffon, on her own terms, even though her business is not yet profitable. ''I like being in charge of my days, and where I want to take my business, and not having to ask for time off or anything like that,'' she said. ''With a child at home, it's so great.''
 Then again, she said: ''The worst is when I'm right in the thick of working on an idea for a dress and then I hear the cry on the baby monitor. Nap time is over!'' 
 Nationally, more women-owned businesses resemble Ms. Krizner-George's than Ms. Schneider's in scale. According to 2002 census figures, nearly half of companies owned by women have less than $10,000 in annual revenues, compared with one-third of all privately held businesses. But several organizations are trying to address that discrepancy by helping women expand their businesses.
 Soon after Stacey Smith and Linda Shapiro, friends on Long Island, had their first babies, they found that their frequent discussions revolved more around what they needed for their start-up businesses than for their little, start-up humans. (Ms. Smith had begun creating handmade invitations, and Ms. Shapiro was selling children's clothing and accessories.)
 In 2005, they started what became the Hybrid Mom Consulting and Media Group, a service that uses the professional talents of women like themselves to help mompreneurs, as some call them, start new businesses. Their specialists work flexible hours, helping start-ups with Web site development, marketing and public relations. 
 ''I don't have to go work for a corporate environment, with its very rigid time format, where I'm not being able to be home when I'm needed to be, for my kids,'' said Ms. Smith, who is based in St. James and has a son, 6, and a daughter, 3. The business made $350,000 last year, Ms. Smith said.
 As Ms. Smith helps other women share their expertise and enjoy the same flexibility she does, she can also speak frankly about the realities of entrepreneurship.
 ''A lot of sacrifice goes into it,'' she said. ''The laundry, when it's done, is not folded immediately, and gets very, very wrinkly. Dinner is not necessarily gourmet. You get one-pan wonders and call it a day.''
 While many others end work at regular hours, many entrepreneurs don't have that luxury. ''Five p.m. is the end of the day? What, are you kidding me?'' Ms. Smith said. ''Five o'clock is my lunch hour.'' She takes time off to have dinner and to put her children to bed, then goes back to working.
 On a national level, a nonprofit provider of online business loans for women called Count Me In for Women's Economic Independence sponsors a competition for entrepreneurs who are women and who want to reach the $1 million annual revenue mark. Count Me In wants one million women to reach that goal by 2010. 
 In the contest, known as Make Mine a Million $ Business, finalists prepare a three-minute pitch, for an audience of budding entrepreneurs and a panel of judges, in hopes of winning coaching, help with raising capital and networking activities.
 In the recent competition in Newark on June 3, Count Me In's founder and chief executive, Nell Merlino, 55, paused to talk about how it can be hard for women to raise capital in the current market.
 ''I think there's a correction going on,'' said Ms. Merlino, who said that 650 used to be considered a decent credit score, but that banks now want 750. ''Companies got so comfortable with the subprime situation, but I think now they're looking much more carefully at credit scores.
 ''Resources are always precious, but in this climate even more so,'' said Ms. Merlino, who worked with the Ms. Foundation to popularize ''Take Our Daughters to Work Day.''
 One of the day's winners, Robin Wilson, 38, of A Blue Egg Corporation, a design company in Manhattan, has found this to be all too true. ''I was told by a bank that had we come in seven months ago we would have been fine,'' Ms. Wilson said. ''That was about two weeks ago.''
 And Julie R. Weeks, 50, president of Womenable, a consulting firm in Empire, Mich., focusing on female entrepreneurs, said the difficulty of securing money particularly hits women-owned businesses that are established and hoping to expand. 
 ''The money is not so scarce for those who are starting their businesses, but it's more so for growth capital,'' she said.
 But Ms. Merlino is not discouraged about the availability of capital. People who have great ideas and well-developed business plans are generally not being turned down for money, she said.
 The day after the conference, when many of the winners were networking, Elizabeth Perelstein, president of a business called School Choice International, was helping her 20-year-old son, David, move from a dorm to a house. ''He has a 103-degree fever,'' she said. ''It's O.K. to take a day off and help them when they're sick.'' 
 A former deputy principal at a public grade school in Armonk and a former education board member in Rye Neck, Ms. Perelstein, 52, started her business 10 years ago, soon after her family relocated to London. She had enrolled her two children at the American school there, but noticed a need for someone local to counsel expatriates about how to choose a school. 
 Her business, now based in White Plains, has grown to include boarding-school searches and the development of a high school in Manhattan for British expatriates. It employs 90 consultants in 50 locations, including India and China. She won a Make Mine a Million contest in 2006. 
 ''It was pivotal for me,'' she said, explaining how she learned the value of looking regularly at her financial statements, from a woman she met through the program, a plumber turned consultant.
 ''For a lot of women, it's very awkward for us to think about money, to talk about money, to act as though we are motivated by money,'' said Ms. Perelstein, who anticipates revenue of $1.8 million this year.
 Maureen Borzacchiello, chief executive of Creative Display Solutions, which makes displays for trade shows, ''off-ramped,'' as she says, from a corporate job in that industry about seven years ago.
 ''I really wanted to take control over my own destiny, and I wanted flexibility and options,'' said Ms. Borzacchiello, 39, of West Hempstead. ''I knew I wanted to start a family at some point in the near future, and I really just decided it was time to create a new path.'' 
 She won a Make Mine a Million award during her company's first year, 2005, reached $1 million in revenue in 2006, and is projecting revenue of $3 million this year.
 THE Newark conference included, for the first time, a seminar for the daughters of women who are entrepreneurs. (There appears to be a genetic marker for starting a business.) Lindsey Pollak, 33, a New York City author who specializes in career advice and women's issues was the speaker at the Make My Daughters a Million seminar. She recalled having her own business card when she was 9 and helping with her mother's decorative egg and jewelry business.
 In introducing herself, one person attending, Melissa Longman, 13, of Frenchtown, N.J., said she and her best friend had a five-year-old beading business with ''revenues of $350 so far, I think.'' Melissa, who a had a business card and said she kept the e-mail addresses of all her customers, attended the event with her mother, Chrysanthe Longman, 43, who works at a graphics company in Hillsborough, N.J. 
 Ms. Merlino said that while most entrepreneurs in the program start their businesses after they have had their children, younger women, especially daughters of entrepreneurs, can benefit from learning business skills early.
 ''We wanted to tell them, when they're thinking about what they'll be studying in high school and college, to know about the steps to take to start their own businesses, instead of going to work for somebody,'' Ms. Merlino said. ''Many wish they'd started their businesses sooner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUSINESS LEADERS: Top to bottom: Stacey Smith, the president of Hybrid Mom Consulting and Media Group, works at home in St. James, N.Y., with her daughter, Carly, nearby. Maureen Borzacchiello, the chief executive of Creative Display Solutions, in Garden City, N.Y., with her husband, Frank (at work on a display). Lisa Krizner-George designs custom bridal dresses and evening wear in her garage studio in Bloomfield, N.J. Elizabeth Perelstein is president of a business called School Choice International, based in White Plains. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C10)
 INNOVATOR: Carla Schneider, above, of Orange, created the WubbaNub pacifier and has expanded on her idea, and her business, with Wubbie baby blankets, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS McDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. CT1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); WOMEN (90%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FLEXTIME (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (71%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



563 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: The Two Israels

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: HEBRON, West Bank 

 BODY:
 To travel through the West Bank and Gaza these days feels like traveling through Israeli colonies.
 You whiz around the West Bank on new highways that in some cases are reserved for Israeli vehicles, catching glimpses of Palestinian vehicles lined up at checkpoints.
 The security system that Israel is steadily establishing is nowhere more stifling than here in Hebron, the largest city in the southern part of the West Bank. In the heart of a city with 160,000 Palestinians, Israel maintains a Jewish settlement with 800 people. To protect them, the Israeli military has established a massive system of guard posts, checkpoints and road closures since 2001. 
 More than 1,800 Palestinian shops have closed, in some cases the doors welded shut, and several thousand people have been driven from their homes. The once flourishing gold market is now blocked with barbed wire and choked with weeds and garbage.
 ''For years, Israel has severely oppressed Palestinians living in the center of the city,'' notes B'Tselem, the Israeli human rights group, in a recent report. The authorities, it adds, ''have expropriated the city center from its Palestinian residents and destroyed it economically.''
 Rima Abu Aisha, a housewife in Hebron, has the misfortune of living in an area near the settlers. When she went into labor, an ambulance could not get the appropriate permissions in time and the baby died, she said.
 Even if the Hebron settlement were not illegal in the eyes of much of the world, it is utterly impractical. The financial cost is mind-boggling, and the diplomatic cost is greater. 
 Perhaps greatest of all is the cost for any hope of a peaceful settlement: the barriers and checkpoints have undermined Palestinian moderates like President Mahmoud Abbas and have empowered Hamas. Polls show that two-thirds of Palestinians now approve of terror attacks against civilians in Israel, up from 40 percent in 2005.
 The Palestinians are committing national suicide as well. By turning toward the zealots of Hamas, and toward the short-term thrill of sending rockets into Israel, they are building a tombstone for their state before it is even born.
 Americans who haven't toured the West Bank or Gaza recently may not appreciate how the new security regime of the last few years is suffocating, impoverishing and antagonizing Palestinians.
 In the village of Ein Bani Salim, a farmer named Khalifa Danna pointed to his field, separated from his house by a barbed-wire fence that Israel built in 2004. Since then, he has been unable to get to the fields. Mr. Danna shows photos he has taken of Israeli settlers on his land -- even using it to throw stones at him.
 B'Tselem is giving video cameras to Palestinians to document the attacks and abuses they suffer. Just this month, a Palestinian woman near Hebron used a camera to record a group of four settlers clubbing her family in a field; two settlers were later arrested.
 The settlers see the issue very differently, emphasizing the continuing Palestinian attacks on them and noting that the security steps were put in place only in reaction to Palestinian terrorism during the second intifada a half-dozen years ago.
 ''If people are trying to actively wipe you out and kill your people, then you have to take security measures,'' says David Wilder, a spokesman for the settlers in Hebron. ''If that antagonizes them, they should stop trying to kill us.''
 So the chasm grows wider and peace more distant. 
 It is here in the Palestinian territories that you see the worst side of Israel: Jewish settlers stealing land from Palestinians (almost one-third of settlement land is actually privately owned by Palestinians); Palestinian women giving birth at checkpoints because Israeli soldiers won't let them through (four documented cases last year); the diversion of water from Palestinians. (Israelis get almost five times as much water per capita as Palestinians.) 
 Yet it is also here that you see the very best side of Israel. Israeli human rights groups relentlessly stand up for Palestinians. Israeli women volunteer at checkpoints to help Palestinians through. Israeli courts periodically rule in favor of Palestinians. Israeli scholars have published research that undermines their own nation's mythologies. Many Israeli journalists have been fair-minded toward Palestinians in a way that Arab journalists have rarely reciprocated. 
 All told, the most persuasive indictments of Israeli actions come from Israelis themselves. This scrupulous honesty and fairness toward Israel's historic enemies is a triumph of humanity.
 In short, there are many Israels. When American presidential candidates compete this year to be ''pro-Israeli,'' let's hope that they clarify that the one they support is not the oppressor that lets settlers steal land and club women but the one that is a paragon of justice, decency, fairness -- and peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); CLOSINGS (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); GOLD MARKETS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



564 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Retirement Eludes a Multitasker

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
 HE remembers it as if it were yesterday. Or certainly second grade. The Brooklyn Musical School Playhouse on St. Felix Street staged the tragic legend of Humpty Dumpty, and Nicholas Martin, then just plain little Joel Martin Levinson, made his theatrical debut as the star. 
 ''It was like the first time I saw 'Antony and Cleopatra' as a freshman at Carnegie Tech,'' he said, ''or Ethel Merman on Broadway in 'Annie Get Your Gun.' '' 
 That was six decades ago, and Mr. Martin, 69, has been threatening to retire to a tiny dream cottage in Provincetown, Mass., that he had all picked out in the real estate advertisements. Instead, nursing his glass of iced tea over a recent breakfast in Boston, where he had just ended his eight-year transformation of the Huntington Theater Company, he was about to start a new job, heading the Williamstown Theater Festival. 
 Mr. Martin's inaugural main-stage production, a revival of the musical ''She Loves Me,'' which opens on Friday, was also his popular final show at the Huntington. Its stars include Brooks Ashmanskas and Jessica Stone. ''I'm packing up my audience -- I mean, my office -- this week,'' Mr. Martin said, in a rare slip. 
 His first season in western Massachusetts, like his stint as artistic director at the Huntington and its new experimental space in the South End, is a mix of classics and standards -- ''Three Sisters'' and a David Ives adaptation of ''A Flea in Her Ear'' among them -- and work by young, emerging playwrights and directors. Alex Timbers reinterprets Christopher Durang's ''Beyond Therapy,'' with Kate Burton, and Thomas Kail directs the premiere of Nathan Louis Jackson's ''Broke-ology.'' Ronald Noone's play ''The Atheist'' features Campbell Scott. 
 ''Williamstown doesn't need that much fixing,'' said Mr. Martin, who has frequently directed there. ''But I really want to do more new work and also set up some kind of workshop program, I hope with Lincoln Center Theater.'' Mr. Martin just wrapped ''The New Century'' by Paul Rudnick there and recently signed to ''Saturn Returns,'' a new play by Noah Haidle, for this fall. In November he will open the renovated Mark Taper Forum with Ms. Burton in ''The House of Blue Leaves.''
 Yet until a few years ago his name rang an immediate bell with very few outside the theater community. Fewer still, inside or out, knew the reason. The producer David Stone ''likes to call me the oldest overnight success he knows,'' Mr. Martin said.
 His devotees -- a widely envied Rolodex of actors, designers, writers and entire costume and scene shops, many who have worked with him since he started directing on the faculty at Bennington College in the late '70s -- ascribe his unusual touch to the special atmosphere he establishes.
 ''He creates a very happy rehearsal room,'' said Ms. Burton, whose Hedda Gabler under his direction at Williamstown in 2000 marked a professional turning point for them both. ''You don't feel like he's figured it all out beforehand. It's a true collaboration.'' Many say Mr. Martin's sensitivity stems from his having been an actor.
 ''The tone of my plays can go off very easily,'' Mr. Durang said, ''and Nicky is the kind of director who can communicate the minutiae.'' 
 As a fierce knight-errant for the creative class, though, Mr. Martin was slightly notorious for his acerbic late-night e-mail to management, board members and marketing staff members at the Huntington.
 ''Look,'' Mr. Martin said, ''for me the art must always come first, and I hate the corporatization of the theater.'' His only advice for Peter DuBois, who replaces him at the Huntington, he said, is to maintain that priority.
 ''No one does funny like Nicky,'' said the Huntington's managing director, Michael Maso. ''Yet he knows how to reach emotional depths as well.'' 
 That layering of frisky froth and gathering gloom carries his ''She Loves Me,'' set in Budapest on the eve of World War II. ''I've always had this belief that humor can get you through, and hope, even in a dark world,'' Mr. Martin said.
 At 40 Mr. Martin had to put his Humpty Dumptied life back together on his own. He scored early as a winsome character actor. He also found the bottle. In part, he said, it helped him deal with his initially conflicted homosexuality, but gradually it just made him the life of too many parties, too many ''small, funny parts that I made a little larger -- too large'' and too many breakfasts clutching ''that bottle of Armagnac someone gave me for Christmas.'' 
 The result, Mr. Martin said, ''I was unemployed and unemployable.'' The sudden death of his father and the suicide of his companion the same year, ''finally made me get help,'' Mr. Martin said. But nothing helped him more than the actress Sandy Dennis's encouragement to accept a teaching position at Bennington. 
 ''And she told me that once I worked with those kids, I would want to direct them,'' Mr. Martin said. ''And I said, 'Oh no, I've resisted that for 40 years.' I embraced directing with such ferocity because it was all I had left.''
 He's still being tested. In Williamstown he follows Roger Rees, whose two-year contract was not renewed. The actor James Naughton, a board member there, said, ''Perhaps Roger's aesthetic didn't mesh with the Williamstown audience.''
 Also confronting Mr. Martin is the festival's three-year-old theater complex. ''It's a big, new building that doesn't have some of the charm of the old one,'' Mr. Naughton said, ''and may be a little harder and chillier and newer than we'd like to think, while you've also got to bring in a new guard of supporters with the kind of commitment the old guard has.''
 The board has already agreed to one of Mr. Martin's feats of multitasking. For ''House of Blue Leaves'' to be ready in time, he'll rehearse it in Williamstown.
 Lingering over breakfast last month, though, he was just happy to impart his wisdom to his youngest associate, Charlie Fitzgerald, 18 months, who with his mother, Ms. Stone, was Mr. Martin's houseguest for the Boston run of ''She Loves Me.'' 
 ''I've trained him to spot a caffeine-free Diet Pepsi halfway across a grocery store,'' Mr. Martin said. The lines to ''Humpty Dumpty'' could be next. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Nicholas Martin, the new artistic director of the Williamstown Theater Festival, misstated the month that the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles is reopening with a production of ''House of Blue Leaves,'' directed by Mr. Martin. It is Sept. 14, not in November.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicholas Martin is known for his acerbic late-night e-mail messages to management, board members and marketing staff members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); RELIGION (67%); WRITERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



565 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SCENE STEALER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: When the Comedy Is Lost in Translation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 AN awful lot of foreigners do not get Judd Apatow.
 For those of you in Pinsk, Mr. Apatow is the comedy impresario behind hits like ''Knocked Up'' last year and no less than five movies on big-studio release schedules this spring and summer.
 This often-bearded, weary-eyed filmmaker certainly looks as if he could be French. Or Dutch. Or Albanian. But he is a 40-year-old American born in Syosset, N.Y. And the films he directs or produces, or both, are an American thing. 
 Some of his films are send-ups of figures like Nascar drivers or television anchors -- movies that work best with people who already get the joke. Others have portrayed aimless young dudes who may bewilder people from countries who don't have a surplus of such.
 Over all, American studios depend on foreign markets for roughly half of total revenue. But Apatow-produced films like the Will Ferrell vehicles ''Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy'' and ''Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby,'' did more than 90 percent of their theatrical business domestically. And the Apatow-directed ''40-Year-Old Virgin'' and ''Knocked Up'' had more than 60 percent of sales at home. 
 The numbers should give pause to Hollywood. When the summer selling season is over, studios will probably collect far less from international markets than they would have with a larger roster of high-budget fantasies like ''Spider-Man 3'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End.'' Last year, those two movies did very well at home, then fared even better around the world. 
 For the record, the old canard that says comedies don't travel is just that: Certain types travel just fine, and not only the Jerry Lewis films that once charmed the French. ''What Happens in Vegas,'' a romantic comedy with Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher, is doing better abroad than at home. And foreign revenue surpassed domestic for ''Night at the Museum,'' with Ben Stiller.
 Presumably, the romantic catfight in one and the adventure antics of the other don't require much specific cultural grounding.
 But the more uniquely domestic comedies of this year are already showing some soft spots. ''Drillbit Taylor,'' of which Mr. Apatow was co-producer, was a disappointment for Paramount: it has taken in just $32.8 million in the United States, and less than half of that abroad. ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' also Apatow-produced, did somewhat better for Universal. It has had $62 million in domestic ticket sales, and $27 million around the world, with openings in some important markets still ahead.
 The worse news for Hollywood is that the new movies may be feeding a non-American tendency in once-dependable foreign markets like France and South Korea. ''Pop culture used to be American pop culture,'' said Roger Smith, the executive editor and a motion picture analyst at Global Media Intelligence, a research company. ''But the rest of the world is figuring out how to make pop culture of its own.''
 A weak dollar has partially masked soft spots in Hollywood's dominance of worldwide sales. According to a report in The Hollywood Reporter, foreign revenue collected by the six biggest American studios rose 9 percent, to $20.2 billion, in 2007, even as domestic revenue fell 7 percent, to $22.7 billion.
 But the euro was surging against the dollar, and other currencies were also strong, so foreign sales of tickets and DVDs appeared to yield more when translated into dollars. 
 Examined more closely, however, some markets have made a distinct shift away from movies made in the United States, and toward films produced locally or in other countries. 
 In France, where the total box office is up to about $1.5 billion a year, American films accounted for an average of 56.3 percent of ticket sales in the last four years of the 1990s, peaking at 64 percent in 1998, as ''Titanic'' circled the globe. Since 2004, the American share of the French market has averaged just 47.5 percent, peaking in 2007 at 50.3 percent, according to numbers from Global Media Intelligence.
 Last year in France, the homegrown ''La Mome,'' known in the United States as ''La Vie en Rose,'' rose to No. 6 in overall box office revenue, nipping at the heels of ''Shrek the Third,'' according to Boxofficemojo.com. But ''Superbad,'' known in France as ''Supergrave,'' a teenage comedy of which Mr. Apatow was co-producer, placed at No. 106 there, at $2.9 million. In the United States, it was 22nd, with over $121 million in sales for Columbia Pictures.
 South Korea tells a similar story. American films have been grabbing less than half the market there even in a robust, fantasy-filled year like 2007, after reaping more than 70 percent of ticket sales in 1998. ''D-War,'' a South Korean film about aliens devastating the planet, edged ''Transformers'' with a plot that ran along similar lines, for the No. 1 spot last year.
 To be fair, the long-term erosion is hardly Mr. Apatow's fault. In Japan, reaction has been similarly cool to non-Apatow vehicles like the romance ''27 Dresses,'' the animated ''Bee Movie,'' and the older-guy comedy ''Wild Hogs,'' all hits in the United States. Instead ''Aibo: Gekijo-ban,'' (or ''Partners: Theatrical Version'') a crime thriller based on a popular television series, has been the year's runaway hit. 
 Of course, all Hollywood movies can't appeal equally to all cultures. A half-serious maxim among those who edit movies for airlines says that you cut violence for Europeans, sex for Asians and both for Americans.
 And Apatow-style films have their own economic logic: As a rule, they cost relatively little to produce, so they may be profitable without a foreign boost. 
 Consider ''Pineapple Express,'' an adventure involving a stoner and his drug dealer, set for release by Columbia Pictures on Aug. 8, and directed by the indie darling David Gordon Green (''All the Real Girls''). In an Entertainment Weekly interview, Seth Rogen, one of the stars, said the film cost only about $25 million. For a studio, that makes it the equivalent of playing the quarter slots: bet less, lose less, win less.
 Mr. Apatow did not respond to requests, via a publicist, to be interviewed for this article. In fact, he and his friends probably deserve credit for developing their version of an American national cinema, dependent though it is on pop cultural in-jokes and cameos, as in the new Adam Sandler film, ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan,'' which counts Mr. Apatow among its writers. Or on men who never grow up, as in ''Step Brothers,'' set for release on July 25. In that one, for which Mr. Apatow is a producer, Mr. Ferrell and John C. Reilly portray guys who become stepbrothers when their parents marry. 
 It may be that adolescence actually ends by the age of 20 or so in Europe, and considerably later in America. That could mean trouble for ''Step Brothers'' in Paris. But, at least, we'll have some movies to call our own. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from ''Knocked Up,'' which was directed by Judd Apatow and was a hit last year in the United States. More than 60 percent of its business in theaters was domestic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE HANOVER/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); BUDGETS (73%); NASCAR RACING (69%); TICKET SALES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

PERSON: BEN STILLER (57%); CAMERON DIAZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



566 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; GASOLINE PRICES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers Find Fuel They Can't Pass Up

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE

DATELINE: Englewood Cliffs 

 BODY:
 AT the two gasoline stations along the Palisades Parkway, about a mile north of the George Washington Bridge, passers-by might think they were giving the stuff away.
 With the price of gas skyrocketing every day, they practically are. The stations, one on the northbound side and the other on the southbound, are used almost exclusively by New Yorkers, who are taking advantage of New Jersey's significantly cheaper gas prices -- by up to 40 cents a gallon. 
 As gas prices have risen, more and more drivers have been tempted to fill up at one of those two stations -- the only ones on the New Jersey portion of the parkway. New Jersey's prices are much lower primarily because gas taxes in New Jersey are less. Its taxes are the third-lowest in the nation; New York's are the third-highest. Because of that disparity, traffic at the parkway stations is so great that the lines of cars sometimes extend onto a traffic lane, to the dismay of police officers. 
 There are few New Jersey drivers in those long lines, because they know where to buy gas locally for the same low prices, without having to wait in line. 
 But many of the drivers on the Palisades are just passing through cheap-gas land. They don't know where else to turn.
 Many are New Yorkers from Rockland County, for whom the stations are ''the convenient place to stop,'' James F. Hall, the executive director of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission, said.
 Mr. Hall said that those drivers were not just imagining that the stations were busier.
 The number of gallons pumped during the first four months of this year at those two stations was up 6 percent over the same period last year, Mr. Hall said. 
 The two stations' 2007 sales were up 9.7 percent over 2006. In the years before that, volume went up slightly every year since 2001, except for 2005, when it dropped a little, Mr. Hall said.
 Each of the stations, owned by Sunoco, has 16 pumps, but often they are not all in use. Even when all the pumps are working, the lines seem long.
 Many customers say they don't mind, because the price is right.
 Asif Iqbal, a limousine driver, fills his Lincoln Town Car at the stations about twice a week, when trips assigned by his company, Skyline Credit Ride, take him nearby. Why? ''Because gas is cheap,'' he said bluntly.
 Laurence Clemente, sitting at the wheel of his convertible next to a pump, said that ''whenever I come down to the city, I try and stop here for gas'' rather than buying it in Goshen, N.Y., where he lives.
 Lauren Cimino, who lives in Warwick, N.Y., is a loyal customer. ''I always come here,'' she said, ''because gas is much cheaper than in New York.
 ''If you wait a few minutes, it's not the end of the world,'' she said.
 New Jersey does not allow self-serve gas stations, so many New Yorkers, accustomed to pumping their own on their side of the border, like to be able to sit in their cars while someone else does the work.
 Ann Spoleti said that she uses one station or the other once a week, on her way to and from New City, N.Y. ''I can economize here,'' she said, ''and they're nice. They even wash your windshield.''
 Mr. Hall said that the park commission has no role in setting the stations' prices, which are competitive with nearby stations off the parkway.
 ''Our only concern about the long waits,'' Mr. Hall said, ''is that we want people to get off the parkway itself.'' 
 The police share that concern. Detective Sgt. Michael J. Coppola of the Palisades Interstate Parkway Police Department said that the two stations had needed more attention in recent months. 
 ''The No. 1 problem is that the gas stations don't fit all the cars that are in line to get gas,'' he said. During rush hours and on weekends, when the line of cars waiting to gas up sometimes extends into a traffic lane, police officers have to wave off some drivers, ''to preserve the safety of the motoring public.''
 ''We've always done that, but now we do it more frequently,'' Sergeant Coppola said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRAFFIC-STOPPER: Prices are a draw along the Palisades Parkway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GAS STATIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); FUEL TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SALES FIGURES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



567 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
The architecture-themed issue, ''The Next City'' (June 8), was a wonderful exploration of how today's cutting-edge architectural firms, like OMA and MVRDV, are exploding the boundaries of conventional architecture. However, I would have liked to have seen perspectives from landscape architects, or what some refer to as ''landscape urbanism.'' Even architects like Rem Koolhaas, Bernard Tschumi and Stan Allen are turning toward landscape architecture to infuse and renew their own architectural-design strategies. Planning cities by single buildings was, and continues to be, a shortsighted strategy. To truly design our urban centers, we must now think of the city as a landscape of infrastructure (transportation, utilities) and systems (ecological, social, institutional).
 MICHELLE LIN 
 Brooklyn
 Nicolai Ouroussoff (''The New, New City'') puts forth the idea that so called ''instant cities'' pose a challenge for architects because of a lack of relevant context, but if there was one lesson that 20th-century urban development and observation served to illustrate, it is the existence of universal principles that make spaces and cities livable. Why not start by designing cities based on metrics we know to be relevant, regardless of country, continent or creed: the finite distance people are willing to walk to work, the distance a child playing can be heard through an open window, the width of sidewalks necessary for ease of movement and public exchange, street dimensions that prioritize people over traffic. There is more to these principles than the vagaries of style.
 ANDREW SALZBERG
 London
 ''The New, New City'' is an interesting reflection on international architecture and emerging global urbanism of the 21st century but does not speak enough to the development of sustainable or humane communities. As Gus Speth's new book, ''The Bridge at the End of the World,'' details, we are reaching the point of no return as a planet. There are some promising new directions based on a radical revision of the process and product of building, including the concept of Living Buildings promoted by the Cascadia Region Green Building Council and Harrison Fraker's EcoBlocks. Without radical rethinking, we are building new and shiny dinosaur cities that have zero chance of being sustainable into the future. We need a complete break with the past to build biologically based cities that restore nature.
 ROBERT N. WISE
 Portland, Ore.
 Sze Tsung Leong's stunning photo accompanying ''The New, New City'' could perfectly illustrate the Nobel laureate Jose Saramago's novel ''The Cave.'' Saramago's protagonist is forced from his simple life in the countryside into a surreal mega-megalopolis carved out of a destroyed landscape, an environment of total social control enabled by futuristic urban and architectural design. Searching for a route of escape underground, unable to determine the real from the unreal, he stumbles into Plato's cave. As with Plato's allegory, Saramago's message is cautionary. Architecture and urban design subtly yet powerfully affect the lives lived in them. As architects and designers labor to build our metastasizing world within multiple requirements, Plato and Saramago send a message to the future. 
 VIRGINIA TYACK
 Richmond, Va.
 While the future of the city will no doubt be gauged by the beauty it displays, whether in crinkled aluminum or renegade gardens, it will also be a lived experience that demands visionary environmental thinking today. One man has bet his academic career on a structure that seeks to revolutionize the way cities look, are experienced and impact the world: the vertical farm. Dickson Despommier of Columbia University, his students and collaborators have spent the past several years nurturing a fanciful idea into a realizable model for greatly increasing the efficiency and reliability of food production while still incorporating the striking designs we have come to demand. The next city will have to be fed, and vertical farms are the way to get the job done.
 JUN MITSUMOTO
 New York 
 Having lived in a shipping container for two years while leading an American effort to provide housing in Armenia following its 1988 earthquake, I read about Lot-Ek's incorporation of containers in their designs (''The Lot-Ek Solution'') with a mix of melancholy and envy. The camp we established in Armenia was dominated by the shipping containers that had been used to provide all our supplies. Housing ourselves became their next use, quickly followed by use as garages, workshops and warehouses. 
 The local people saw the containers' potential, and at times there appeared to be more interest in acquiring them for housing than the large American-style wooden-construction apartments we were erecting. As I now work in the troubled environment of U.S. homebuilding, I find it interesting that ''container housing'' may have the potential to provide more worldwide housing than the traditional American ''stick-built'' homes we took great pains to export. 
 G. A. DEMARTINO
 Pennington, N.J.
 As a reader with a perhaps more than ordinary interest in the career of Tom Wolfe, I couldn't help noticing one sentence in Virginia Heffernan's highly entertaining story on June 8, ''Rank and File,'' about ''Listmania'': ''Last year, while declaring in Time magazine that 'literary lists are basically an obscenity,' Tom Wolfe admitted to having made many in his life, and then introduced a new one, ranking the best novels in the world.'' In fact, (1) the quote about lists being an obscenity comes not from Mr. Wolfe but from Time's Lev Grossman, tongue-in-cheek; (2) I don't think Mr. Wolfe has ever ''admitted'' or otherwise indicated he has made many lists in his life; (3) Mr. Wolfe did not ''introduce'' a list of favorite novels but merely responded to a questionnaire sent out to more than 100 writers. In baseball lingo, that's 0 for 3. But I bet Mr. Wolfe really likes Ms. Heffernan's style and would tell her he adores lists, whether it's his old graduate-school mate Harold Bloom's ''canon'' or David Letterman's nightly ''Top Ten'' feature on television. Most people adore lists, if you ask me, because all of us are concerned about our status and others' every conscious moment of our lives. 
 TOM WOLFE
 New York

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FUNCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); CITIES (90%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (71%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



568 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; VENTURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Sure, Land Is Cheaper. So Is It Time to Buy?

BYLINE: BY VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
THE real estate market may have cooled, but investor demand may soon be heating up for at least one type of property: land. 
 Some of the most attractive deals lately have come from land developers and home builders, who are divesting parcels in many parts of the country as they whittle down excess housing inventory. Even smaller landowners, facing their own financial strains, are selling off lots once meant for building.
 ''The time is ripe to start looking; I haven't seen this market in 20 years,'' said Jaime Raskulinecz, a real estate investor and property manager from Verona, N.J., who wants to buy land in the hard-hit market of Cape Coral, Fla. During a recent visit there, she found lots for sale on or near the water at about a third to half below their peak prices of two years ago.
 On a larger scale, H. Ray Alcorn Jr., an owner of Park Real Estate in Blacksburg, Va., is picking up commercial and residential parcels after two years on the sidelines. Mostly using cash, he has bought more than 100 acres throughout Virginia this year, some from lenders and much of it at reduced prices, and he has options to buy more. 
 ''I'm looking at a lot of stuff, and I'm being very picky,'' he said, explaining that the land he buys generally has zoning and various building approvals in place, making it easier to develop or resell. 
 By some accounts, acquiring land is the purest form of real estate investing. (As Mark Twain once said, ''they've stopped making it,'' at least around these parts.) 
 Yet buying land, even at today's prices, is not nearly as simple as it seems. Real estate experts raise many signals of caution, particularly for the neophyte investor.
 ''Because everyone's running away, some people think it's time to invest, but it's not for the faint of heart,'' said C. Joseph Blackbourn, the president and chief executive of Everest Holdings in Scottsdale, Ariz., an active buyer of home-building lots in the Southwest since late last year. ''There are a lot of expenses in holding land.'' 
 Land investors will need to have cash on hand to cover most of those expenses. ''Lending has all but disappeared,'' said Joel B. Shapiro, the chief executive of Timbervest, an Atlanta investment company that manages about 900,000 acres of timberland nationwide. Just as the credit crisis has made terms on home mortgages more stringent, land loans, already deemed riskier by lenders, are harder to get and typically carry even higher down payments and interest rates. 
 So what are some of the other costs associated with land ownership, besides high borrowing expenses? There are property taxes, of course, and there may be liability insurance (in case someone is injured on the property) and maintenance expenses (to cut the grass or provide other upkeep).
 Owners will also need to ensure that the land is environmentally safe. Sometimes toxic trash may be dumped on the property ''unbeknownst to you, and you'll be responsible for the cleanup,'' said John T. Reed, the publisher of Real Estate Investor's Monthly, a newsletter. ''At 2 o'clock in the morning on a moonless night, who's to say what's being put there?''
 For that matter, who's to say what might have made its way onto the property before it was sold? Seemingly pristine raw land, for example, could be contaminated with pollutants, which is why real estate experts urge buyers to have an environmental audit done as part of their due diligence. (Also important are engineering reports, to let buyers know if the land is buildable, and surveys, to establish true boundaries.)
 But even the most nimble investors cannot control everything, especially when it comes to local politics. A city or town may impose a building moratorium or rezone an area to reduce density. ''You might buy land that is zoned for 10 houses per acre and then it goes down to 2 per acre,'' Mr. Reed said, ''and there goes 80 percent of your value.''
 There's no guarantee, either, that economic expansion in a community will benefit the land investor. ''It's hard to pinpoint which direction growth will go, and to predict when and at what magnitude,'' Mr. Reed said. 
 Indeed, as many seasoned investors know, waiting for land to appreciate can be, well, like watching grass grow. But the value can also shoot up like a weed almost overnight, providing some hefty returns. 
 ''We tell our investors that they should not expect to see anything for four to six years in overall investment returns,'' William A. Shopoff, the chief executive of the Shopoff Group, a private real estate investment company in Irvine, Calif., said of a new, land-focused real estate investment trust called Shopoff Properties Trust, for which he is now raising money.
 Mr. Blackbourn agreed that it could take years for markets with a glut of unsold property to stabilize. ''If somebody buys land in South Florida, how long would they have to wait?'' he pondered. ''Up to 8 to 10 years perhaps.''
 Ms. Raskulinecz, the investor looking to buy in southwestern Florida, says she's willing to ride out the economic storm. ''Since the area was the first to sink, maybe it might be one of the first to come back,'' she said.
 Meanwhile, investors who can afford to buy and hold ''get compensated for time,'' Mr. Blackbourn said of the myriad good deals now available in many regions.
 Nationwide, land prices fell by more than 6 percent last year, according to data compiled by Real Capital Analytics, a research firm in New York. And prices have continued to decline. For instance, Real Capital said the price per buildable square foot on land earmarked for retail development averaged $44 so far this year, compared with $79 in 2007, while the average price for land for condominiums was $87, versus $151. 
 Big investors, which include institutions like pension funds, are finding many of their land deals through developers and builders looking to liquidate assets, as well as lenders who were forced to foreclose.
 Land auctions are another source. ''They can't afford the debt -- it's easier to sell it at fire sale,'' Mr. Alcorn, the Virginia investor and author of a home-study guide, ''Dealmaker's Guide to Commercial Real Estate,'' said of many sellers. ''On average, you're getting a discount of 60 percent,'' and sometimes even 70 percent.
 Investors of all types can find property for sale with the help of brokers as well as through online commercial listing services like LoopNet.com and CoStar.com. Thomas P. Byrne, LoopNet's president and chief operating officer, says undeveloped land makes up about 15 percent of his company's 600,000 listings. CoStar's chief executive, Andrew C. Florance, says 148,000 land listings are now on his site, totaling around six million acres, or ''two times what it was two years ago.''
 For the less intrepid investor, there are passive investments. Those with larger sums could put their money into private funds offered by companies like Mr. Blackbourn's Everest Holdings and Mr. Shapiro's Timbervest. There are also dividend-paying timber REITs, which hold portfolios of timberland. Their shares are publicly traded. 
 Mr. Shopoff's REIT, which is publicly registered but sold privately, will focus on undeveloped and underdeveloped land. The minimum investment is $19,000. ''We hope to capture appreciation in excess of 30 percent compounded annually,'' Mr. Shopoff said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: H. Ray Alcorn Jr., who is now investing in land, surveys the wooded property he recently bought in a foreclosure sale in Roanoke County in Virginia. Everest Holdings in Scottsdale, Ariz., has been actively buying home-building lots in places like Casa Grande, Ariz., below right, and North Las Vegas, Nev. (TOP PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE KLEIN-DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE PHOTOGRAPHS, EVEREST HOLDINGS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LAND SUBDIVISION (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (59%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



569 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 5292 words

HEADLINE: Sea of Trash

BYLINE: By DONOVAN HOHN. 
Donovan Hohn, a contributing editor of Harper's Magazine, is at work on a book about a shipment of bath toys lost at sea.

 BODY:
Off Gore Point, where tide rips collide, the rolling swells rear up and steepen into whitecaps. Quiet with concentration, Chris Pallister decelerates from 15 knots to 8, strains to peer through a windshield blurry with spray, tightens his grip on the wheel and, like a skier negotiating moguls, coaxes his home-built boat, the Opus -- aptly named for a comic-strip penguin -- through the chaos of waves. Our progress becomes a series of concussions punctuated by troughs of anxious calm. In this it resembles the rest of Pallister's life. 
 A 55-year-old lawyer with a monkish haircut, glasses that look difficult to break, an allergy of the eyes that makes him squint and a private law practice in Anchorage, Pallister spends most of his time directing a nonprofit group called the Gulf of Alaska Keeper, or GoAK (pronounced GO-ay-kay). According to its mission statement, GoAK's lofty purpose is to ''protect, preserve, enhance and restore the ecological integrity, wilderness quality and productivity of Prince William Sound and the North Gulf Coast of Alaska.'' In practice, the group has, since Pallister and a few like-minded buddies founded it in 2005, done little else besides clean trash from beaches. All along Alaska's outer coast, Chris Pallister will tell you, there are shores strewn with marine debris, as man-made flotsam and jetsam is officially known. Most of that debris is plastic, and much of it crosses the Gulf of Alaska or even the Pacific Ocean to arrive there.
 The tide of plastic isn't rising only on Alaskan shores. In 2004 two oceanographers from the British Antarctic Survey completed a study of plastic dispersal in the Atlantic that spanned both hemispheres. ''Remote oceanic islands,'' the study showed, ''may have similar levels of debris to those adjacent to heavily industrialized coasts.'' Even on the shores of Spitsbergen Island in the Arctic, the survey found on average a plastic item every five meters. 
 Back in the 1980s, the specter of fouled beaches was a recurring collective nightmare. The Jersey Shore was awash in used syringes. New York's garbage barge wandered the seas. On the approach to Kennedy Airport, the protagonist of ''Paradise,'' a late Donald Barthelme novel, looked out his airplane window and saw ''a hundred miles of garbage in the water, from the air white floating scruff.'' We tend to tire of new variations on the apocalypse, however, the same way we tire of celebrities and pop songs. Eventually all those syringes, no longer delivering a jolt of guilt or dread, receded from the national consciousness. Who could worry about seabirds garotted by six-pack rings when Alaska's shores were awash in Exxon's crude? Who could worry about turtles tangled in derelict fishing nets when the ice caps were melting and the terrorists were coming? 
 Then, too, for a while it seemed as if we might succeed in laying this particular ecological nightmare to rest. In the mid-1980s, New York's sanitation department began deploying vessels called TrashCats to hoover up scruff from the waterways around the Fresh Kills landfill. Elsewhere beach-sweeping machines did the same for the sand. In 1987 the federal government ratified Marpol Annex V, an international treaty that made it illegal to throw nonbiodegradable trash -- that is, plastic -- overboard from ships in the waters of signatory countries. The good news for the ocean kept coming: in 1988, Congress passed the Ocean Dumping Reform Act, which forbade cities to decant their untreated sewage into the sea. In 1989 the Ocean Conservancy staged its first annual International Coastal Cleanup (I.C.C.), which has since grown into the largest such event in the world. But beautification can be deceiving. Although many American beaches -- especially those that generate tourism revenues -- are much cleaner these days than they used to be, the oceans, it seems, are another matter. 
 Not even oceanographers can tell us exactly how much floating scruff is out there; oceanographic research is simply too expensive and the ocean too varied and vast. In 2002, Nature magazine reported that during the 1990s, debris in the waters near Britain doubled; in the Southern Ocean encircling Antarctica the increase was a hundredfold. And depending on where they sample, oceanographers have found that between 60 and 95 percent of today's marine debris is made of plastic. 
 Plastic gets into the ocean when people throw it from ships or leave it in the path of an incoming tide, but also when rivers carry it there, or when sewage systems and storm drains overflow. Despite the Ocean Dumping Reform Act, the U.S. still releases more than 850 billion gallons of untreated sewage and storm runoff every year, according to a 2004 E.P.A. report. Comb the Manhattan waterfront and you will find, along with the usual windrows of cups, bottles and plastic bags, what the E.P.A. calls ''floatables,'' those ''visible buoyant or semibuoyant solids'' that people flush into the waste stream like cotton swabs, condoms, tampon applicators and dental floss. 
 The Encyclopedia of Coastal Processes, about as somniferously clinical a scientific source on the subject as one can find, predicts that plastic pollution ''will incrementally increase through the 21st century,'' because ''the problems created are chronic and potentially global, rather than acute and local or regional as many would contemplate.'' The problems are chronic because, unlike the marine debris of centuries past, commercial plastics do not biodegrade in seawater. Instead, they persist, accumulating over time, much as certain emissions accumulate in the atmosphere. The problems are global because the sources of plastic pollution are far-flung but also because, like emissions riding the winds, pollutants at sea can travel. 
 And so, year after year, equipped with garbage bags and good intentions, the volunteers in the International Coastal Cleanup fan out, and year after year, in many places the tonnage of debris is greater than before. Seba Sheavly, a marine-debris researcher who ran the I.C.C. until 2005, says the Ocean Conservancy's cleanup ''has never been about curing the problem of marine debris.'' It has always been, she told me, ''a public awareness campaign.'' Now a private consultant to the plastics industry and the United Nations Environment Program, among other clients, Sheavly says she believes that the primary value of coastal cleanups lies in the lesson they teach volunteers -- ''that what they're picking up comes from them.'' On Alaska's outer coast, however, only a fraction of the debris washing in comes from local litterbugs. On much of Alaska's 33,000-mile shoreline, in fact, there are no local litterbugs. On much of Alaska's shoreline there are no people at all. 
 When Pallister took me there last July, a GoAK crew had been at work for two weeks cleaning up Gore Point (population: 0), part of a 400,000-acre maritime wilderness at the heart of the Kenai Fjords. Despite the pretty scenery, few nature lovers bother to visit. You can travel to Gore Point only by helicopter, seaplane or boat, and then only when weather permits, which it often does not. In the lower 48, beach cleanups tend to involve schoolchildren gleaning food wrappers and cigarette butts left by recreational beachgoers. GoAK's cleanups, by contrast, are costly expeditions into the wild. The group's volunteers must be 18 or older, and all must sign a frightening waiver in which they agree not to hold the organization liable for perils like ''dangerous storms; hypothermia; sun or heat exposure; drowning; vehicle transportation and transfer; rocky, slippery and dangerous shorelines; tool and trash related injuries; bears; and'' -- in case that list left anything out -- ''other unforeseen events.'' 
 The windward shore of Gore Point is what's known among beachcombers and oceanographers as ''a collector beach.'' In 1989, according to The Anchorage Daily News, more of Exxon's spilled oil ended up there than on any other beach on Alaska's outer coast, but unlike the oil, the incoming debris never ended. Every tide brings more. Over the course of several decades, ever since the dawn of the plastics era, a kind of postmodern midden heap accumulated behind the driftwood berm. To beachcombers in the know, Gore Point was a happy hunting ground, one of the best places in Alaska to find exotic oddities. To Pallister, it was a paradise lost. Now, subsidized by a $115,000 matching grant from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (N.O.A.A.), he had embarked upon a possibly quixotic mission to regain it. 
 Pallister refuses to accept that beach cleanups are merely public awareness campaigns. And so, it seems, does the federal government. In 2006, in part thanks to lobbying by the Ocean Conservancy, Congress passed the Marine Debris Research, Prevention and Reduction Act. Last winter, Pallister applied for one of the grants authorized by the bill. By then GoAK certainly had acquired the requisite expertise. Before founding GoAK, Pallister and his field manager, Ted Raynor, helped organize an annual volunteer beach cleanup in Prince William Sound. Over the course of four summers, working their way eastward from Whittier, the volunteers scoured approximately 70 miles of rugged shoreline. At that rate, Pallister and Raynor calculated, it would take 200 years to clean Prince William Sound just once. Rather than abandon all hope -- perhaps the most rational response -- they chartered GoAK and started raising money. 
 In its first summer in action, GoAK managed to clean 350 miles of rugged shoreline, picking up enough trash to fill 46 trash-hauling bins. Pallister wasn't satisfied. It wasn't enough to clean beaches near coastal communities. And so, last summer, Gore Point became a front line in the federal government's campaign against debris. What would it take, Pallister hoped to learn, to clean up one wild beach? 
 To me, Gore Point seemed like the scene of an unsolved environmental mystery -- unsolved and possibly unsolvable. Who, if anyone, can be held accountable for all that plastic trash? What, if anything, does it forebode for us and for the sea? 
 By the time we reach GoAK's base camp on Gore Point's leeward shore, Alaska's long midsummer twilight has begun. Pallister is anxious to have a look at the cleanup site before dinner. Raynor leads the way, his brindled pit bull Bryn racing ahead, sniffing the ground for marmots and bears. The narrow trail dips and meanders eastward across an isthmus, following the edge of a meadow where wildflowers are in bloom before veering into the forest, the floor of which is overgrown with devil's club, an aptly named shrub whose thorns, Pallister warns me, can be fiendishly difficult to get out. In the distance, trash bags, some yellow, others white, flash between the spruce trunks. By Raynor's estimate, in the last two weeks, he and nine other workers the crew manager Doug Leiser, Leiser's two sons, Pallister's three sons and three volunteers from Homer filled around 1,200 garbage bags weighing, on average, 50 pounds each. That's 60,000 pounds, or 30 tons, of debris. All along the length of the beach, a dozen yards apart, are heaps of bags, great colorful cairns, and here and there, clustered in the grass, are loose objects too big or heavy for bags the wheel of a car, a microwave oven, a television screen that, shorn of its cabinet, looks naked, like a brain without a skull. 
 There's one acre of forest left to be cleaned up. As we approach, the mossy earth begins to crackle and crunch underfoot. I recognize the sound: we're walking over buried plastic. Behind the moldering trunk of a fallen spruce, a deep drift of trash has collected, like water behind a dam. This is what the entire shore looked like two weeks ago, Raynor says. Gill-net floats appear to be the most abundant item, polyethylene water bottles the second-most abundant. Many of the floats and nearly all of the bottles are inscribed with Asian characters. I unearth a flip-flop, and then, a few moments later, an empty container of Downy, the fabric softener. 
 Pallister has a theory about where all this trash comes from. ''There's a weather phenomenon we have here,'' he told me in Anchorage. ''A winter low sets this prevailing wind pattern that will just funnel this way for days on end if not weeks on end. That wind is blowing right across that bunch of plastic out there.'' The ''bunch of plastic'' he was talking about is the flotilla of trash, purportedly at least as big as Texas, that has accumulated at the becalmed heart of the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre, a giant clockwise circuit of currents that revolves between East Asia and North America.
 High-pressure systems like the one that predominates over the North Pacific Subtropical Gyre force currents to spiral inward. Oceanographers call these spirals ''convergence zones.'' Low atmospheric pressure systems like the one that predominates over the Gulf of Alaska have the opposite effect, creating ''divergence zones'' where the surface currents move outward toward shore. Divergence zones tend to expel debris. Convergence zones collect it.
 In 2001 a peer-reviewed scientific journal called The Marine Pollution Bulletin published a study, whose undramatic title, ''A Comparison of Plastic and Plankton in the North Pacific Central Gyre,'' belied its dramatic findings. The lead author -- a sailor, environmentalist, organic farmer, self-trained oceanographer and onetime furniture repairman named Charles Moore -- went trawling in the North Pacific convergence zone about 800 miles west of San Francisco and found seven times as much plastic per square kilometer as any previous study.
 ''As I gazed from the deck at the surface of what ought to have been a pristine ocean,'' Moore later wrote in an essay for Natural History, ''I was confronted, as far as the eye could see, with the sight of plastic. It seemed unbelievable, but I never found a clear spot. In the week it took to cross the subtropical high, no matter what time of day I looked, plastic debris was floating everywhere: bottles, bottle caps, wrappers, fragments.'' An oceanographic colleague of Moore's dubbed this floating junk yard ''the Great Pacific Garbage Patch,'' and despite Moore's efforts to suggest different metaphors -- ''a swirling sewer,'' ''a superhighway of trash'' connecting two ''trash cemeteries'' -- ''Garbage Patch'' appears to have stuck. 
 The Garbage Patch wasn't merely a cosmetic problem, nor merely a symbolic one, Moore contended. For one thing, it was a threat to wildlife. Scientists estimate that every year at least a million seabirds and 100,000 marine mammals and sea turtles die when they entangle themselves in debris or ingest it. ''Entanglement and ingestion, however, are not the worst problems caused by the ubiquitous plastic pollution,'' Moore wrote. Plastic polymers, as has long been known, absorb hydrophobic chemicals, including persistent organic pollutants, or POPS, like dioxin, P.C.B.'s and D.D.T. Highly controlled in the U.S. but less so elsewhere, such substances are surprisingly abundant at the ocean's surface. By concentrating these free-floating contaminants, Moore worried, particles of plastic could become ''poison pills.'' He also worried about toxins in the plastic itself -- phthalates, organotins -- that have been known to leach out over time. Once fish or plankton ingest these pills, Moore speculated, poisons both in and on the plastic would enter the food web. And since such toxins concentrate, or ''bioaccumulate,'' in fatty tissues as they move up the chain of predation -- so that the ''contaminant burden'' of a swordfish is greater than a mackerel's and a mackerel's greater than a shrimp's -- this plastic could be poisoning people too. 
 In the scientific community, Moore's work is somewhat controversial. Even marine biologists who share his alarm have misgivings about the sensationalism with which the Garbage Patch is sometimes described. Since the plastic debris in the North Pacific convergence zone is spread out unevenly across millions of miles of ocean, and since most of it is fragmentary, flowing through the water column like dust through air, the Garbage Patch bears little resemblance to a floating junkyard. But it is, numerous scientists assured me, very much for real. 
 Beth Flint's nuanced testimony was typical. Flint is a wildlife biologist with the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service. One seabird she studies is the Laysan albatross, which, thanks to a recent Greenpeace ad campaign, has become plastic pollution's most famous victim -- its poster bird, if you will. The ad shows a photograph in which a slimy casserole of bottle caps, cigarette lighters and unidentifiable plastic shards spills from the downy belly of a necropsied Laysan albatross chick. ''How to starve to death on a full stomach,'' the caption reads. The image is not merely powerful, or shocking; it's persuasively accusatory. Look, dear consumer, it seems to say; look at what you've done, look where what you throw away ends up. 
 There's only one problem, Flint says. No one knows for certain whether plastic killed the albatross. Do plastic shards perforate the intestines of chicks? Sometimes. Does plastic obstruct the digestive tract or make a bird ''starve to death with a full stomach''? Probably, in some cases. Then again albatrosses eat squid, and chitonous squid beaks are also indigestible. Are the toxins in and on plastics poisoning the birds, as Moore has proposed? It wouldn't be surprising. According to Flint, long-lived seabirds like albatrosses do indeed have alarmingly high contaminant burdens. But research into the pathology of plastic poisoning is ongoing, and in the meantime, ''it's still all sort of circumstantial.'' 
 Despite these caveats, Flint has little doubt that plastic is ''clearly not good'' for seabirds, and her praise for Moore is unequivocal. ''I think that he's done a tremendously valuable service to humanity by pursuing this when none of the big oceanographic or academic institutions or government institutions did,'' Flint said. She predicts that other researchers will soon ''get on his bandwagon.'' Already her prediction seems to be coming true. In the last few years several studies of plastic poisoning appeared in prominent journals, including Science.
 The hardest question to answer about the Garbage Patch, it turns out, isn't whether plastic threatens animals and ecosystems, but what, if anything, can be done about it. ''We haven't been able to hatch up any good ideas,'' Flint admitted. Albatross chicks don't forage on land, she said. In fact they don't forage at all. Their parents do, flying far and wide across the Pacific, swooping down to snatch morsels off the surface, which they bring back home and regurgitate into a hungry chick's mouth. That's where all the detritus in that Greenpeace ad came from. Even if we were to clean every beach in the world, it wouldn't keep albatrosses from stuffing their offspring full of plastic. ''You'd have to clean the entire ocean,'' Flint said.
 During the few days I spent helping out at Gore Point, GoAK's labors came to seem all the more Herculean. Cleaning up debris turns out to be slow, mind-numbing, back-straining work. We crouched amid the devil's club, a few feet apart, like gleaners harvesting surreal produce -- plastic gourds, fungi of foam. Every now and then someone would find something remarkable -- a bottle with Arabic writing on it, a toy, a shoe, a Russian vacuum tube -- and would hold it up for the rest of us to see, before pocketing it or, more often, dropping it into a bag with the other trash. When you stepped back to examine your progress, the difference would hardly be noticeable. But the hours and bags added up, and finally there was nothing left on that forest floor but a sprinkling of plastic foam. 
 Pallister wasn't ready to celebrate. Even now, the success of GoAK's rescue mission remained in doubt. He still didn't know how he was going to remove all that trash from that windward shore, where the waters were rocky and the surf could be dangerously rough. The original plan was to load the bags onto six-wheelers, drive them across the isthmus to the protected leeward shore and transfer the bags onto a bow-loading amphibious barge, which would ferry them 80 miles to the landfill in Homer. But archaeologists with the Alaska parks department recently told Pallister, no six-wheelers. So now what? Sweat equity? Helicopters? 
 The week before, he spoke to a helicopter pilot who assured him that timber companies regularly airlifted logs out of forests as dense as this one. If GoAK loaded the debris into bulk bags, and if the weather wasn't too foul, it wouldn't be a problem. (A bulk bag is a giant, white, rip-proof plastic sack, the size and shape of a balloonist's gondola, that the shipping and construction industries use to sling cargo -- more than 4,000 pounds of it -- through the air.) The pilot would snake a hook down through the trees on a 125-foot cable, a man on the ground would catch it, snap on a load of bulk bags, and up through the branches they would go, three or four at a time. But standing in the forest, peering up through the dense canopy, Pallister was having a hard time imagining it, despite the pilot's assurances. ''We're going to have to find some clearings for the helicopter,'' he said to Raynor. 
 Even if he could make the airlift work, it wasn't clear how he was going to pay for it. A chartered helicopter would run him approximately $2,000 an hour, the barge $4,000 a day. Already Pallister, who keeps a well-thumbed copy of Edward Abbey's ''Monkey Wrench Gang'' on his coffee table, had hit up dozens of corporate sponsors -- Princess Cruises, REI, Alyeska Pipeline, BP, whose sunflower logo decorates most of GoAK's garbage bags. Then there was the weather to worry about. Autumn comes early to the Kenai Peninsula's outer coast. The barge and helicopter wouldn't be available until mid-August. By then, summer would be ending, the purple fireweed would have finished blooming and on the upper slopes of the Kenai Mountains the tundra would be tingeing red. By then the weather could turn. The southeasters could start howling in off the Pacific, buffeting the windward shore, making waves surge up into driftwood, stripping branches, scattering debris 400 feet into the trees. If that happened, you could forget about an airlift. If that happened, the crew would have to lash down the heaped bags with cargo nets and pray they survived the winter. 
 ''That's not unusual,'' Charles Moore told me, when I described the midden at Gore Point. ''Any windward side of an island's going to have situations like that. The question is, how much can we take? We're burying ourselves in this stuff.'' Moore sympathized with Pallister's motives, and said that GoAK's efforts could help ''raise awareness.'' But if Pallister thought he was saving Gore Point from plastic pollution, he was fooling himself. ''It's just going to come back,'' Moore said. 
 This, in Moore's opinion, is why the 2006 Marine Debris, Research, Prevention and Reduction Act is likewise doomed to fail. ''It's all been focused on cleanups,'' he says of federal policy. ''They think if they take tonnage out of the water, the problem will go away.'' 
 In the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, whose shores are washed by the southern edge of the Garbage Patch, federal agencies are staging one of the biggest marine-debris projects in history. Since 1996, using computer models, satellite data and aerial surveys, they have located and removed more than 500 metric tons of derelict fishing gear in hopes of saving endangered Hawaiian monk seals from entanglement. The results have been mixed at best. Biologists are now finding fewer monk seals entangled in debris; but they are also finding fewer monk seals, period. Meanwhile, an estimated 52 tons of fresh debris inundates the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands every year.
 Along with financing and volunteers, corporate sponsors of the International Coastal Cleanup contribute homilies about saving the planet. ''Working together we help keep our coasts clean,'' ran Coca-Cola's contribution to the I.C.C.'s 2006 report. Marine debris, declared Dow Chemical, is a ''people problem that we, the citizens of the world, have the power to stop.'' Is it? Yes, says Moore, but ''there is no magic bullet,'' and the solutions may require sacrifices that the citizens, governments and corporations of the world are reluctant to make. Eventually we will have to abandon planned obsolescence, and instead manufacture products that are durable, easily recyclable or both, Moore said. And we will have to overcome our addiction to conspicuous consumption. 
 In the meantime, other smaller, more practical actions could be taken. In 1999, the National Resources Defense Council successfully sued the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for permitting municipalities to pollute watersheds around Los Angeles. As a result of the lawsuit, Los Angeles County had to comply with stricter total maximum daily loads, or T.M.D.L.'s, the local pollution limits that the E.P.A. places on a region's waterways under the Clean Water Act. The new T.M.D.L.'s, the first in the country to treat trash as a pollutant, will require the county to reduce the amount of solid waste escaping its rivers and creeks from 4.5 million pounds a year to zero by 2016. To meet that target, cities will have to invest in ''full-capture systems,'' filters that strain out everything larger than 5 millimeters in diameter. In theory, every region in the country could follow suit, but already cash-strapped governments in Southern California are complaining that these ''zero-trash T.M.D.L.'s'' are too costly and ambitious to implement. Moore, meanwhile, has collected data showing that even full-capture systems would allow tens of thousands of plastic particles to escape the Los Angeles River every day. 
 As nearly everyone I spoke to about marine debris agrees, the best way to get trash out of our waterways is, of course, to keep it from entering them in the first place. But experts disagree about what that will take. The argument, like so many in American politics, pits individual freedom against the common good. ''Don't you tell me I can't have a plastic bag,'' Seba Sheavly, the marine-debris researcher, says, alluding to plastic-bag bans like the one San Francisco enacted last year. ''I know how to dispose of it responsibly.'' But proponents of bag bans insist that there is no way to use a plastic bag responsibly. Lorena Rios, an environmental chemist at the University of the Pacific, says: ''If you go to Subway, and they give you the plastic bag, how long do you use the plastic bag? One minute. And how long will the polymers in that bag last? Hundreds of years.'' 
 ''The time for voluntary measures has long since passed,'' says Steve Fleischli, president of Waterkeeper Alliance, a network of environmental watchdogs to which, it should be noted, the Gulf of Alaska Keeper does not belong. (Waterkeeper officials have objected to GoAK's use of their brand, but Pallister insists that their objections are without legal merit. ''They've trademarked 'Riverkeeeper,' 'Soundkeeper,' 'Baykeeper,' '' he told me, ''but not 'Alaska keeper.' '') Fleischli would have us tax the most pervasive and noxious plastic pollutants -- shopping bags, plastic-foam containers, cigarette butts, plastic utensils -- and put the proceeds toward cleanup and prevention measures. ''We already use a portion of the gasoline tax to pay for oil spills,'' Fleischli says. Such levies shouldn't be seen as criminalizing the makers and sellers of plastic disposables, he argues; they merely force those businesses to ''internalize'' previously hidden costs, what economists call ''externalities.'' This market-based approach to environmental regulation, known as extended producer responsibility, is increasingly popular with environmental groups. By sticking others with the ecological cleaning bill, the thinking goes, businesses have been able to keep the price of disposable plastics artificially low. And as Pallister learned at Gore Point, the cleaning bill may be greater than we can afford.
 We still have limited tax dollars to spend and scarier nightmares to fear. No one -- not Pallister, not Moore -- will tell you that plastic pollution is the greatest man-made threat our oceans face. Depending whom you ask, that honor goes to global warming, agricultural runoff or overfishing. But unlike many pollutants, plastic has no natural source and therefore there is no doubt that we are to blame. Because we can see it, plastic is a powerful bellwether of our impact upon the earth. Where plastics travel, invisible pollutants -- pesticides and fertilizers from lawns and farms, petrochemicals from roads, sewage tainted with pharmaceuticals -- often follow. Last June, shortly before my voyage in the Opus began, Sylvia Earle, formerly N.O.A.A.'s chief scientist, delivered an impassioned speech on marine debris at the World Bank in Washington. ''Trash is clogging the arteries of the planet,'' Earle said. ''We're beginning to wake up to the fact that the planet is not infinitely resilient.'' For ages humanity saw in the ocean a sublime grandeur suggestive of eternity. No longer. Surveying the debris on remote beaches like Gore Point, we see that the ocean is more finite than we'd thought. Now it is the sublime grandeur of our civilization but also of our waste that inspires awe.
 One evening in mid-August, despite N.O.A.A. forecasts calling for gale-force winds, a rusty 100-foot barge called the Constructor plowed its way in darkness from Homer to Gore Point, reaching the leeward anchorage just before dawn. Day broke to mild breezes and blue skies, which showed how much you could trust N.O.A.A. forecasts out here on the unpredictable coast. The helicopter was supposed to arrive by 10, bringing a local television news crew with it. Shortly before the appointed hour, Raynor, Leiser and Pallister's elder sons assembled on Gore Point's leeward shore. Dressed in fleece jackets and rubber boots, reclining on overstuffed bulk bags as if they were Barcaloungers, they gazed west, beyond the barge, to the Kenai Mountains, above which, any moment now, they expected the helicopter to appear. ''God's smiling,'' Raynor remarked of the weather. ''God's saying: 'Thank you. Thank you for cleaning up Gore Point.' '' 
 A half-hour later, when the helicopter had not arrived, Raynor wasn't so sure what God was saying. Had something gone wrong? Was Homer weathered in? The Pallister boys rose from their bulk bags, walked down to the surf and began amusing themselves with strands of bull kelp, whipping the slick green ropes toward the water as if casting lines. 
 At last, from the opposite direction than expected, the unmistakable throb of a rotor could be heard, growing louder. The four men turned almost in unison and shaded their eyes with their hands. But then the noise faded. The treetops tossed around in the wind. The men continued to stare. ''They must be doing a flyover of east beach,'' Leiser said. ''Probably the TV crew wants an aerial shot.'' The treetops kept tossing. At this distance the helicopter sounded like a neighbor's lawn mower. Then, thundering, it appeared, swooping past, dark blue, alive with gleams, flying low enough that it was easy to read the words ''Maritime Helicopter'' on its side. Here in the wilderness it seemed angelic. The pilot banked over the inlet, over the Constructor, where Chris Pallister stood on the deck looking up. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ocean currents funnel a relentless tide of plastic trash and other debris to the unpopulated shores of Gore Point in Alaska
 Storms drive plastic debris hundreds of feet into the forest beyond the shores of Gore Point. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TED RAYNOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); OCEANS (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); SKIING (72%); LAWYERS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (63%); BRAIN INJURIES (56%); WILDERNESS (52%); POP & ROCK (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH ANTARCTIC SURVEY (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: PRINCE WILLIAM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (71%) ALASKA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%); SVALBARD & JAN MAYEN (79%); ANTARCTICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



570 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: Becoming the Boss

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
FOR 10 years Lisa Krizner-George had worked as a draper, making costumes for Broadway shows like ''Wicked,'' ''Hairspray'' and ''Oklahoma!'' She took sketches from designers and turned fantasies into fabric. But becoming a designer herself would have required an extra degree and starting over in the kind of company where she worked. 
 ''It was something I'd always dreamed of,'' said Ms. Krizner-George, 42. ''I really wanted to get back into designing.'' 
 So Vanilla Pink was born, in January 2007, six months after her son, Graeme. 
 Ms. Krizner-George works in a studio in her garage in Bloomfield, designing custom bridal dresses and evening wear, first fashioning them in muslin, then with real fabric, allowing for several fittings and revisions at the customer's request.
 She enjoys being up to her elbows in duchess satin, silk gazar or chiffon, on her own terms, even though her business is not yet profitable.
 ''I like being in charge of my days, and where I want to take my business, and not having to ask for time off or anything like that,'' she said. ''With a child at home, it's so great.''
 Then again, she said: ''The worst is when I'm right in the thick of working on an idea for a dress and then I hear the cry on the baby monitor. Nap time is over!'' 
 For women who want flexible hours, autonomy, and the chance to profit from ideas their corporate bosses often overlook, nap time is very much over. 
 The New York metropolitan area has more than a half million businesses owned by women, employing 533,437 people. These businesses have brought in $93 million in receipts this year, according to the Center for Women's Business Research, in Washington.
 For years, women have been twice as likely as men to start their own businesses. And even though the current economic downturn has made credit even harder to come by for small-business owners, particularly women, since 2002 there has been an 8.9 percent increase in the number of businesses owned by women, a 2.3 percent increase in employees of companies owned by women, and a 16.6 percent increase in receipts at such companies, according to the women's business research center.
 For many female entrepreneurs, necessity is the mother of their venture. Take Carla Schneider, 40, of Orange, Conn., whose product, the WubbaNub, a silicon pacifier with a small stuffed animal attached, has been used in neonatal intensive care units and by mothers of fussy babies around the country. 
 Ms. Schneider invented it during the first family vacation that she and her husband, Bret, took with their son, also Bret, now 9. Bret, 3 months old at the time, would sleep only with a pacifier in his mouth, but it kept falling out. So she sewed it onto a stuffed animal that Bret liked to cling to, and it stayed put.
 ''I got stopped on the street numerous times for a couple months after that, so I basically kind of took the ball and ran with it,'' said Ms. Schneider, a former special education teacher who followed in the entrepreneurial footsteps of her mother, who runs a nonprofit agency. 
 Ms. Schneider, who works out of her home, named her product the WubbaNub, after her favorite stuffed dog from childhood. After selling enough WubbaNubs wholesale (they retail for $11.95), her eight-year-old company is now profitable. 
 ''Last year we tripled our revenue, so we are in the six figures, over half a million at this point and climbing,'' she said.
 Nationally, more women-owned businesses resemble Ms. Krizner-George's than Ms. Schneider's in scale. According to 2002 census figures, nearly half of companies owned by women have less than $10,000 in annual revenues, compared with one-third of all privately held businesses. But several organizations are trying to address that discrepancy by helping women expand their businesses.
 Soon after Stacey Smith and Linda Shapiro, friends on Long Island, had their first babies, they found that their frequent discussions revolved more around what they needed for their start-up businesses than for their little start-up humans. (Ms. Smith had begun creating handmade invitations, and Ms. Shapiro was selling children's clothing and accessories.)
 In 2005, they started what became the Hybrid Mom Consulting and Media Group, a service that uses the professional talents of women like themselves to help mompreneurs, as some call them, start new businesses. Their specialists work flexible hours, helping start-ups with Web site development, marketing and public relations. 
 ''I don't have to go work for a corporate environment, with its very rigid time format, where I'm not being able to be home when I'm needed to be, for my kids,'' said Ms. Smith, who is based in St. James and has a son, 6, and a daughter, 3. The business made $350,000 last year, Ms. Smith said.
 As Ms. Smith helps other women share their expertise and enjoy the same flexibility she does, she can also speak frankly about the realities of entrepreneurship.
 ''A lot of sacrifice goes into it,'' she said. ''The laundry, when it's done, is not folded immediately, and gets very, very wrinkly. Dinner is not necessarily gourmet. You get one-pan wonders and call it a day.''
 While many people end work at regular hours, many entrepreneurs don't have that luxury.
 ''Five p.m. is the end of the day? What, are you kidding me?'' Ms. Smith said. ''Five o'clock is my lunch hour.'' She takes time off to have dinner and to put her children to bed, then goes back to working.
 On a national level, a nonprofit provider of online business loans for women called Count Me In for Women's Economic Independence sponsors a competition for entrepreneurs who are women and who want to reach the $1 million annual revenue mark. Count Me In wants one million women to reach that goal by 2010. 
 In the contest, known as Make Mine a Million $ Business, finalists prepare a three-minute pitch, for an audience of budding entrepreneurs and a panel of judges, in hopes of winning coaching, help with raising capital and networking activities.
 In the recent competition in Newark on June 3, Count Me In's founder and chief executive, Nell Merlino, 55, paused to talk about how it can be hard for women to raise capital in the current market.
 ''I think there's a correction going on,'' said Ms. Merlino, who said that 650 used to be considered a decent credit score, but that banks now want 750. ''Companies got so comfortable with the subprime situation, but I think now they're looking much more carefully at credit scores.''
 Julie R. Weeks, 50, president of Womenable, a consulting firm in Empire, Mich., focusing on female entrepreneurs, said the difficulty of securing money particularly hits women-owned businesses that are established and hoping to expand. 
 ''The money is not so scarce for those who are starting their businesses, but it's more so for growth capital,'' she said.
 But Ms. Merlino, who worked with the Ms. Foundation to popularize Take Our Daughters to Work Day, is not discouraged about the availability of capital. People who have great ideas and well-developed business plans are generally not being turned down for money, she said.
 The day after the conference, when many of the winners were still networking, Elizabeth Perelstein, president of a business called School Choice International, was helping her 20-year-old son, David, move from a dorm to a house. ''He has a 103-degree fever,'' she said. ''It's O.K. to take a day off and help them when they're sick.'' 
 A former deputy principal at a public grade school in Armonk, N.Y., and a former education board member in Rye Neck, Ms. Perelstein, 52, started her business 10 years ago, soon after her family relocated to London. She had enrolled her two children at the American school there, but noticed a need for someone local to counsel expatriates about choosing schools. 
 Her business, now based in White Plains, has grown to include boarding-school searches and the development of a high school in Manhattan for British expatriates. It employs 90 consultants in 50 locations, including India and China. She won a Make Mine a Million contest in 2006. 
 ''It was pivotal for me,'' she said, explaining how she learned the value of looking regularly at her financial statements, from a woman she met through the program, a plumber turned consultant.
 ''For a lot of women, it's very awkward for us to think about money, to talk about money, to act as though we are motivated by money,'' said Ms. Perelstein, who anticipates revenue of $1.8 million this year.
 Maureen Borzacchiello, chief executive of Creative Display Solutions, which makes displays for trade shows, ''off-ramped,'' as she called it, from a corporate job in the same industry about seven years ago.
 ''I really wanted to take control over my own destiny, and I wanted flexibility and options,'' said Ms. Borzacchiello, 39, of West Hempstead, N.Y. ''I knew I wanted to start a family at some point in the near future, and I really just decided it was time to create a new path.'' 
 She won a Make Mine a Million award during her company's first year, 2005, reached $1 million in revenue in 2006, and is projecting 2008 revenue of $3 million.
 The Newark conference included, for the first time, a seminar for the daughters of women who are entrepreneurs. (There appears to be a genetic marker for starting a business.) Lindsey Pollak, 33, a New York City author who specializes in career advice and women's issues, was the speaker at the Make My Daughters a Million seminar. She recalled having her own business card when she was 9 and helping with her mother's decorative egg and jewelry business.
 In introducing herself, one person attending, Melissa Longman, 13, of Frenchtown, said she and her best friend had a five-year-old beading business with ''revenues of $350 so far, I think.'' Melissa, who had a business card and said she kept the e-mail addresses of all her customers, attended the event with her mother, Chrysanthe Longman, 43, who works at a graphics company in Hillsborough. 
 Ms. Merlino said that while most entrepreneurs in the program start their businesses after they have had children, younger women, especially daughters of entrepreneurs, can benefit from learning business skills early.
 ''We wanted to tell them, when they're thinking about what they'll be studying in high school and college, to know about the steps to take to start their own businesses, instead of going to work for somebody,'' Ms. Merlino said. ''Many wish they'd started their businesses sooner.''
 Take Nadine Vogel, 44, of Mendham, whose convincing pitch tipped the applause meter and made her a winner. She runs a consulting firm that encourages corporations to market products to people with disabled family members and employ people with disabilities 
 ''One day I realized I had been building businesses all along, but they were for my employer,'' Ms. Vogel said. ''I realized too that nobody out there is doing what I do, and somebody needs to work for the long-term benefits and to provide for people like my kids, so they can be seen as consumers and people with money, and employees. And if they're not going to do it, I'm going to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUSINESS LEADERS: Top to bottom: Stacey Smith, the president of Hybrid Mom Consulting and Media Group, works at home in St. James, N.Y., with her daughter, Carly, nearby. Maureen Borzacchiello, the chief executive of Creative Display Solutions, in Garden City, N.Y., with her husband, Frank (at work on a display). Carla Schneider, of Orange, Conn., created the WubbaNub pacifier. Elizabeth Perelstein is president of a business called School Choice International, based in White Plains. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
THOMAS McDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. NJ9)
 WORK AT HOME: Lisa Krizner-George designs custom bridal dresses and evening wear in her garage studio, left, in Bloomfield. Being near her house helps her care for her toddler son, Graeme. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. NJ1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WOMEN (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); FLEXTIME (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



571 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: The New Trophy Home, Small and Ecological

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
For the high-profile crowd that turned out to celebrate a new home in Venice, Calif., the attraction wasn't just the company and the architectural detail. The house boasted the builders' equivalent of a three-star Michelin rating: a LEED platinum certificate. 
 The actors John Cusack and Pierce Brosnan, with his wife, Keely Shaye Smith, a journalist, came last fall to see a house that the builders promised would ''emit no harmful gases into the atmosphere,'' ''produce its own energy'' and incorporate recycled materials, from concrete to countertops. 
 Behind the scenes were Tom Schey, a homebuilder in Santa Monica, and his business partner, Kelly Meyer, an environmentalist whose husband, Ron, is the president of Universal Studios. Ms. Meyer said their goal was to show that something energy-conscious ''doesn't have to look as if you got it off the bottom shelf of a health-food store.''
 ''It doesn't have to smell like hemp,'' she said. 
 That was probably a good thing. The four-bedroom house was for sale, with a $2.8 million asking price.
 Its rating was built into that price. LEED -- an acronym for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is the hot designer label, and platinum is the badge of honor -- the top classification given by the U.S. Green Building Council. ''There's kind of a green pride, like driving a Prius,'' said Brenden McEneaney, a green building adviser to the city of Santa Monica, adding, ''It's spreading all over the place.''
 Devised eight years ago for the commercial arena, the ratings now cover many things, including schools and retail interiors. But homes are the new frontier.
 While other ratings are widely recognized, like the federal Energy Star for appliances, the LEED brand stands apart because of its four-level rankings -- certified, silver, gold and platinum -- and third-party verification. So far this year, 10,250 new home projects have registered for the council's consideration, compared with 3,100 in 2006, the first year of the pilot home-rating system. Custom-built homes dominate the first batch of certified dwellings. Today, dinner-party bragging rights are likely to include: ''Let me tell you about my tankless hot water heater.'' Or ''what's the R value of your insulation?''
 But if a platinum ranking is a Prada label for some, for others, it is a prickly hair shirt. Try asking buyers used to conspicuous consumption (a 12,000-square-foot house) to embrace conspicuous nonconsumption (say, 2,400 square feet for a small family). Or to earn points by recycling and weighing all their construction debris (be warned: a bathroom scale probably won't cut it). The imperatives of comfort and eco-friendliness are not always in sync. 
 For instance, the Brosnans, environmental advocates who admired Ms. Meyer's house, are now building a home of their own and ''really want to do it green,'' said David Hertz, their architect. Mr. Brosnan may adopt many environmentally sound building techniques, but he ''is not going to live in a 2,400-square-foot home,'' the architect said.
 Mr. Hertz's complaint goes beyond size. He says the rating system is rigid and cumbersome, something that has been heard across the country as green building slowly ceases to be a do-gooder's hobby. The ratings are now woven into building codes in Los Angeles, Boston and Dallas. The federal government and many states and cities use LEED standards or the equivalent for their own buildings. The system is based on points earned for a variety of eco-friendly practices; builders choose among them, balancing the goals of cost control, design and high point totals.
 Nevada, North Carolina and Virginia, not to mention Chicago, Cincinnati and Bar Harbor, Me., give tax incentives or other concessions, like expedited permitting or utility hookups, for construction that is up to the nonprofit council's standards.
 And ''LEED-accredited professional'' is a new occupational status. 
 Worries about climate change and rising energy costs are part of the equation: roughly 21 percent of heat-trapping carbon dioxide emissions come from homes; nearly 40 percent come from residential and commercial structures combined. As energy prices rise, the long-range economic value and short-range social cachet of green building are converging. 
 More than 1,500 commercial buildings and 684 homes have been certified but just 48 homes have received the platinum ranking, among them a four-bedroom home in Freeport, Me., as well as homes in Minneapolis; Callaway, Fla.; Dexter, Mich.; and Paterson, N.J. The checklist for certification can be more daunting than a private-school application, which prompts many to abandon the quest. Mr. Schey is not seeking LEED certification on his next home (though the project's architect, Melinda Gray, is seeking it for hers). 
 Randy Udall, a builder in Colorado who wrote a piece critical of the process after building two accredited ski resort additions, said, ''You're happy when you're released from the U.S. Green Building Council's Abu Ghraib,'' though he added, ''You typically end up with a delightful building.''
 One requirement for getting a home certified is hiring an on-site inspector approved by the council to test the new systems and help fill out the huge amount of paperwork, which is reviewed by the nonprofit council. The organization charges from $400 for a home to $22,500 for the largest buildings to register and certify costs. 
 Joel McKellar, a researcher with LS3P Associates, an architecture firm in Charleston, S.C., said that to earn credit for adequate natural light, ''you have to calculate the area of the room, the area of the windows, how much visible transmittance of light there is.''
 Michael Lehrer, who designed the platinum-rated Water + Life Museum complex in Hemet, outside Los Angeles, said, ''They have mundane things in there that are pretty nonsensical and others things that are pretty profound.'' He added, ''At a time when everybody and their sister and brother are saying 'We are green,' it's very important that these things be vetted in a credible way.''
 To cope with the growing appetite for accreditation, the council this spring asked other agencies to help make LEED certifications. A new code, which addresses some of the criticisms, is at www.usgbc.org/DisplayPage.aspx?CMSPageID=1849. 
 Is LEED a useful selling tool? Offered with great fanfare last fall on eBay for $2.8 million, the Meyer/Schey home in Venice, which can be seen on their Web site, www.Project7ten.com got no bids at the time; it recently found a potential buyer, for $2.5 million. 
 But Maria Chao, an architect in Amherst, Mass., said her new home's certification rating had meant instant recognition. ''This is a small town,'' Ms. Chao said. ''When I mention I live in the house on Snell St., people say, 'Oh, the green home.' '' 
 Frances Anderton, a KCRW radio host and Los Angeles editor of Dwell magazine, longs for the day when LEED recognition is irrelevant. ''Architects should be offering a green building service,'' Ms. Anderton said, ''without needing a badge of pride.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the continuation of a front-page article on Sunday about a rating system for ecologically minded homes misidentified the architect of an environmentally friendly home in the Venice section of Los Angeles. As the article correctly noted, the architect is Melinda Gray -- not Kelly Meyer and Tom Schey, who were the builders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Lehrer designed the platinum-rated Water + Life Museum complex in Hemet, outside Los Angeles. Now, ''it's very important that these things be vetted in a credible way,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENNY CHAN/FOTOWORKS)
 An environmentally friendly, LEED-certified home in Venice, Calif., designed by Tom Schey, a homebuilder in Santa Monica, and his business partner, Kelly Meyer, an environmentalist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (91%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); CLOTHING LABELS (70%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



572 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Emma Berndt, Eric Budish

 BODY:
Emma Lewis Berndt and Eric Brian Budish were married on Saturday evening in Cambridge, Mass. Rabbi Michael Strassfeld officiated at the Charles Hotel. 
 Ms. Berndt, 29, is keeping her name. She is a finance associate for the William J. Clinton Foundation's climate initiative, which has its headquarters in Boston and is involved in helping 40 cities reduce greenhouse gas emissions. She graduated from Harvard and has a master's degree in regional and urban planning from the London School of Economics and Political Science. 
 She is the daughter of Dr. Judith Lewis Herman of Cambridge, and Jerry W. Berndt of Paris. The bride's father is a photographer whose work is included in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the International Center of Photography. Her mother is a clinical professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, and the director of training for a program for victims of violence at Cambridge Hospital. She is also the author of ''Trauma and Recovery'' (Basic Books, 1992). 
 Mr. Budish, also 29, is a doctoral candidate in economics at Harvard. He graduated from Amherst College and received a master's degree in economics from Oxford University, where he was a Marshall scholar. 
 He is a son of Joan Freeman Budish and Lawrence H. Budish of New York. The bridegroom's mother retired as a mathematics teacher at Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School in New York, and is an adjunct professor of education at New York University and an education consultant. His father is a partner in the corporate department of Proskauer Rose, the New York law firm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); PSYCHIATRY (70%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); WRITERS (67%); EMISSIONS (56%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (55%)

COMPANY: PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



573 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Network Nation

BYLINE: By DALTON CONLEY. 
Dalton Conley, chairman of the sociology department at New York University and senior fellow at the Breakthrough Institute, is the author of the forthcoming ''Elsewhere, U.S.A.''

 BODY:
The chatter these days is that the Republicans are a party that has run out of ideas. The Soviet Union is long gone; welfare has been reformed; market logics have permeated almost every aspect of our lives (eBay, anyone?). The truth is that the triumph of conservative ideas may present a political problem for the ailing Republicans, but the party that's truly lacking in new ideas is my own, the resurgent Democrats.
 There is lots of talk in progressive policy circles that we need a ''New New Deal'' or some other sort of postindustrial revision to the social contract. Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, after all, were forged in a society in which, for the most part, social organization was concentric. By way of analogy, think of Russian nesting dolls: children were nested in families; each family had one breadwinner; that breadwinner worked for a single employer; those employers were firmly rooted in the United States; and, to top it all off, the vast majority of people living in the country were citizens. This form of social organization made the social contract possible. There were clear parties to cut the deal, so to speak. 
 Government and big business had an understanding, famously embodied by the line, ''What's good for the country is good for General Motors, and vice versa.'' Employers, in turn, agreed to pay their (male) employees a living wage and provide generous benefits. Men, in turn, had an obligation to provide for their dependents. To complete the sequence, the state would step in if any of these links broke down by providing a minimal level of support in the case of unemployment, death, desertion or disability.
 Today, by contrast, the most common model of social organization is crosscutting social groups. Less than a quarter of families still fit the traditional nuclear model. Meanwhile, more than two-thirds of households with two or more adults have multiple breadwinners. Freelancing and self-employment have risen substantially. And even citizenship status can cut within families. Frequently, parents are immigrants, and their offspring, born here, are citizens. 
 These more complex social arrangements create many problems for the old social contract. Traditional approaches to welfare payments, health insurance and education have proved hard to sustain in a world in which women with children typically work, employees frequently change jobs and many children in a school district may not be citizens. 
 So perhaps we need to reimagine these nesting dolls and instead think of the social contract along the lines of a computer network or the hub-and-spoke airline network in the U.S. In such ''scale free'' networks, distance has been collapsed by long links that allow you to skip between any two points in a couple steps. The government's role is less as a backup provider -- in case one link of the nested chain breaks down -- and more as honest broker and resource hub across groups.
 In health care, for example, the government could act as a pooler, forming health-insurance-purchasing cooperatives, randomly assigning unaffiliated individuals to groups that would then contract with private insurers. Likewise, the state could set up universal investment accounts for retirement savings, college savings and health expenditures. In education, the feds could mandate that any institutions of higher education that receive government dollars must make their research and course materials available online in an open-source format free of charge. 
 Private companies and nonprofits are already stepping in to fill this role. The Freelancers Union allows self-employed individuals to purchase health insurance at less expensive group rates. And M.I.T. and iTunes U have already inaugurated the open-courseware movement. But government has an important role to play. After all, the state can absorb a lot more risk than smaller entities can. Think how well government-backed V.A. and F.H.A. mortgages worked after World War II as compared with how the private market has fared lately.
 What's more, the state can provide incentives for individuals to make choices that are better for themselves and society as a whole. There is, in fact, a new movement toward such ''soft paternalism'' already afoot in Europe and in the private sector here in the U.S. For example, some casinos now allow recovering gambling addicts to blacklist themselves as a commitment mechanism that helps prevent them from breaking down in weak moments. Along similar lines, government could allow individuals to commit to future payroll-savings deductions (with matching funds as incentive) by checking a box at some earlier point in time.
 It's not surprising that the private-sector, new-economy companies are ahead of government in adapting to the networked society, but if progressives want a victory in the world of ideas and policy -- and not just a couple of good election cycles -- they are going to have to stop talking F.D.R, J.F.K. and L.B.J. and start thinking eBay, Google and Wiki. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); MEDICARE (74%); LIVING WAGE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



574 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES MANICURING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: They're Her Colors. The Rest of Us Just Wear Them.

BYLINE: By AMANDA PRISCHAK

 BODY:
ESSIE WEINGARTEN is an animated talker, but as she spoke one recent afternoon in the glass-enclosed office at her company in Astoria, a listener might well have been distracted by her nails. They were perfectly manicured, and she was sporting a base of Mademoiselle, a pastel pink, with a top layer of the best-selling Ballet Slippers, an even paler pink. 
 Ms. Weingarten's 27-year-old company, Essie Cosmetics, is a beige, windowless building nestled between a Con Ed plant and the Steinway piano factory, but behind its nondescript exterior is a cornucopia of color. Essie Cosmetics is famous for its more than 200 cheekily named nail polishes, which are produced in the United States and exported to salons in 93 countries. Its polishes have adorned the fingertips of A-listers like Madonna and Jennifer Lopez. 
 Ms. Weingarten, a tall and commanding 59-year-old with an expertly tied pink silk scarf around her neck, is as vibrant as her colors. 
 ''I want people to forget about the 'R' word,'' she said the other day, referring to forecasts of a recession, ''and to smile when they see all these bright, fun colors.'' She was speaking about her new Neon collection, which, as with all her nail polishes, and like more and more polishes these days, comes with eye-catching names. 
 Ms. Weingarten's names center on a particular theme. The Neon collection, for example, includes Short Shorts, a ''shockingly flamingo pink,'' and Bermuda Shorts, a ''high-voltage violet.''
 Such nail polish colors were not always the norm. Ms. Weingarten launched Essie after noting, during a stint in the late '60s and early '70s as an assistant buyer at Henri Bendel, that all the best polish colors went to department stores. ''In those days, salons only had pearly white, platinum, red, mauve and some boring pink,'' Ms. Weingarten explained with a chuckle. 
 Essie broadened the selection to include everything from inky blacks to pale pinks, and Ms. Weingarten often gave them names inspired by her travels. For example, Cafe Forgot, a milky brown, is named for the Parisian cafe where Ms. Weingarten once took a spill, and Aruba Blue was born during a Caribbean vacation. 
 Ms. Weingarten, who grew up in Hollis Hills, Queens, is the sole copywriter of the names of her products. It's a role she relishes, even though she has taken heat for some of the saucier names she has coined. 
 ''Every week I get complaints,'' she said. Prune Face went off the market in response to incensed customers in California, and After Sex was rechristened After Six in more conservative markets. 
 ''Of course, in New York,'' Ms. Weingarten said, ''we had no reason to change the original name.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Every week I get complaints,'' said Essie Weingarten, whose cosmetics company is in Astoria, Queens.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); RETAILERS (71%); WRITERS (71%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (70%); CONSERVATISM (60%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); ARUBA (75%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



575 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; SUNDAY SERIAL THE FUNNY PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2440 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Corbett's Request: Chapter 7: Dentist to the Stars

BYLINE: By COLIN HARRISON

 BODY:
Chapter 7: Dentist to the Stars
 Roger Corbett's 2008 appointment book began in the closing weeks of 2007. He'd blocked out a few days just after Christmas as ''kids at Mom's,'' followed by ''kids to La Guardia.'' I noticed several appointments with doctors, each preceded by ''call Mom to remind.'' So these were his mother's doctors he was dutifully visiting, with her. I remembered going on these appointments with my own mother years back; not much fun, the medical endgame of the parent-child relationship. New Year's brought a reservation for two at Jean Georges, but nothing more. He hadn't had much to celebrate as 2008 arrived. 
 The margin of each calendar week served also as Roger's personal finance sheet, and I could see that he'd been drawing $1,000 a week from his bank account, and after subtracting for rent, food, phone and other items, was not living particularly high on the hog, especially if he was spending any real time with his Czech girlfriend, Eliska Sedlacek, who looked to me like the kind of young woman an older man spent money on. Two important days were highlighted, Jan. 28 and March 11, and they involved interviews of some sort, the first at an investment firm in Rockefeller Center not far from where I worked and the next at the Harvard Club. Clearly he was trying to get back on his feet, not easy to do at his age nor in the shake shack of the 2008 American economy. Of course, the March 11 appointment never took place, for Roger Corbett was dead and buried by then.
 Of particular interest to me was a notation every Friday afternoon at 2. It was an address: 150 Lex. Where did the unemployed, down-on-his-luck Roger Corbett go every Friday? Yoga? Shrink? Acupuncture? Cooking lessons? This was too interesting to ignore.
 The next Friday, I chopped a big hole in my schedule and jumped into a cab at 1:30 p.m. It dropped me at the corner of 30th and Lexington. Number 150, on the west side of the avenue, was a place called the Old Print Shop. I pushed inside and plummeted most agreeably back into the 19th century -- a deep, quiet room with antique prints and maps hanging from the plaster walls, with more maps set on beautiful old wooden display cabinets. A half-dozen patrons browsed reverently, poking through the unframed prints in vertical cases or waiting as a member of the professional staff slid open a flat file. The air itself smelled old, or perhaps this was just the dust of ancient maps rising into the room.
 ''Pardon me,'' I asked a man behind the counter, ''is it possible that anyone here might remember a man named Roger Corbett?''
 ''It's not a name I know. Is he a collector?''
 ''No. He used to come here about this time every week.''
 ''What was the name?''
 ''Roger Corbett.''
 ''There was a Corbett who made very fine maps in the late 18th century,'' he noted somewhat absentmindedly. ''But that is not what -- '' 
 ''I know that name,'' came a voice behind me. ''I know Roger Corbett.''
 ''Ah, Mr. Greenfeld,'' said the clerk.
 I turned to see a small man of about 70 perched on a cane. He was missing his left arm, and his empty sleeve was pinned against his shirt.
 ''He sometimes meets me here at this time.''
 I introduced myself. ''I'm afraid I have some unhappy news.''
 Which I then delivered, in summary form. He said nothing, but blinked several times. Then he let his eyes drift toward the clerk. ''You said you had the 1848 Dripps?''
 ''Of course.''
 I followed Mr. Greenfeld to the back of the store, where the clerk slid open a wide file drawer and lifted out a large, ornate map of Lower Manhattan dated 1848 that showed, it seemed, the location of nearly every church, meetinghouse, police station, firehouse, ferry route to Brooklyn and New Jersey and dock fronting the Hudson and East Rivers. The street grid barely reached up into the 40s. It was a thing of beauty.
 ''Very nice,'' Greenfeld said. He inspected the price. ''Expensive but yes, very nice.''
 ''The condition is good, almost no foxing.''
 ''I could not disagree.''
 The clerk waited, his sudden silence like a stopwatch being started. Mr. Greenfeld handed me his cane as if I were his longtime private valet, extracted a magnifying glass from his pocket and leaned over the map. He paid special attention to the flattened folds, it seemed. ''One minor repair,'' he noted. ''Done well.''
 ''Yes,'' said the clerk.
 Greenfeld straightened. ''Please frame it like you did the 1855 Colton, same matte, with the UV glass too.''
 ''Very well.''
 He took his cane from me. ''Thank you for indulging my weekly passion. I am addicted to maps, and after my wife died, I became nearly unstable in my desire. Now I limit myself to one hour a week in this establishment. You do know where you are, don't you?''
 ''The Old Print Shop?''
 ''This is the finest antique-map and print store in the Western Hemisphere, my friend. Mecca for map collectors. Oh, there are some other very fine dealers in Manhattan -- Richard Arkway, Martayan Lan, Donald Heald, very fine all of them -- but I just happen to prefer this place. What else could make an old man feel young but being among things that are much older?'' 
 I didn't have an answer.
 ''Now you must tell me of Roger.''
 I explained my role and how I had come across the entries in the appointment book.
 ''We would meet and talk. Informally but with great purpose. You see, I knew his father quite well.''
 ''Roger was on a personal quest to understand him, I think.''
 Greenfeld nodded. ''You're a good detective.''
 ''Well, a lawyer by trade.''
 ''Oh, where?''
 I held the door for him as we left the shop. ''Patton, Corbett & Strode.''
 ''Ah,'' said Greenfeld, with greater appreciation. ''So you might have known old Wilson Corbett yourself!''
 ''Yes, but just as a junior lawyer back then.''
 Greenfeld stole a glance at me. ''A dynamo.''
 We were ambling along under a gray sky, the cane adding a tap to our footsteps.
 ''You are familiar with Jungian psychoanalytic theory?''
 ''Not chapter and verse,'' I said.
 ''Well, suffice it to say that Wilson was both always himself and never quite who he said he was.''
 ''How do you know?''
 ''I know, all right. We shared an apartment when he was in law school until the day he was married. I saw a few nice girls in that time. But Wilson, he was quite the magician. Girls appearing and disappearing constantly. Even after he was married to Diana. Into his late 30s. Pathological. Couldn't help himself. Paid dearly for it, too, in all senses of the word.''
 ''How?''
 ''I don't want to be too specific, out of deference to his memory.''
 ''I see.''
 ''I can say that he broke girls' hearts, he broke his own, he made a few girls pregnant, had to pay for abortions, which were quite illegal back then, people forget, and I think more than that he did himself great harm. Was haunted by his own youthful promiscuity until a late age, in fact.''
 ''What was your profession?''
 Greenfeld grunted. ''I was meant to be a psychoanalyst, but I ended up being a dentist for movie and television stars. Yeah, I was big until about 1980, worked on everybody before they appeared on Johnny Carson, Merv Griffin, Mike Douglas. Repairs, bleaching, caps, crowns, you name it, I did it. No root canals, no cavities. I cleaned up all of them, Sinatra, Mailer, Jackie Gleason, Lucille Ball once when she was in town, tried with Liberace, but he took offense, a few times with Karen Carpenter, John Denver, bunch of them, all dead now. Great people. I loved them. Would've kept going, but I lost my arm.''
 ''How, if I may ask?''
 ''Subway-car door. My own fault. I was saved by a German tourist who used his belt as a tourniquet. I was depressed and bitter for several years. Couldn't work, of course. Now I see it was the best thing that ever happened to me. Forced me to retire 10 years earlier. Now I'm an old man collecting maps.''
 A lonely old man too, I sensed. ''So what did you tell Roger?''
 ''I said, Listen, you really want to find this stuff out, you got to talk to other people who knew him. Like Charles Weaver, his father's old poker buddy. He was the keeper of the secrets, not me. Lives up in Queens, thinks he's the Donald Trump of Floral Park. And Roger did look him up.'' Greenfeld paused. ''Poor guy was lost, looking for ghosts.''
 ''The ex-wife seems to have resettled easily enough.''
 ''Oh, I got the lowdown on that, baby. Looks good but a mess underneath. She's got some boyfriend doctor keeping the refrigerator full.''
 ''I thought there was plenty of money, the house went for -- ''
 Greenfeld shook his head. ''Roger confessed all that to me. He sank millions into some cockamamie Web site, then millions more into some hedge fund. Maybe it was the other way around. Gone, gone, gone, a marriage, the family, now the man himself.''
 In the cab home I watched the buildings go by. It had started to rain, and the wet blurriness of the windows made me feel melancholy. After you've lived in New York for a while, say 20 years, you begin to see the unending conflict between the city that was and the city that will be. Maybe this was why Greenfeld was obsessed with his maps. You walk by a place and what was there is gone. Makes you feel old. The buildings change, go higher, or they get rehabbed and the neighborhood changes. Remember Avenue A and B? Hollowed out, burned out? That's gone, probably for the better. Remember the meatpacking district? Hell's Kitchen? CBGB? Remember the World Trade Center? Of course. How about Times Square in the '70s? I miss it, I confess. But my perspective is limited. I'm too young. My mother remembered when they tore down Pennsylvania Station, where Madison Square Garden is now. She used to read about New York, study the history. Canal Street was a canal. Bryant Park was a reservoir. Battery Park is called that because there was a battery of cannons out in the water to protect the harbor. Coney Island was once a real island. The city you know is always changing, and I find it sad and mystifying. 
 My mother, I remember, felt this acutely, even though she wasn't a native New Yorker. But she believed that her life began for real when she moved here in 1962. She was born and raised in Columbus, Ohio, studied at the University of Wisconsin for three years, was married unhappily at 20, moved to Milwaukee and worked there as a secretary, and after I came along, divorced at 22. I never knew the guy. Never had the chance. He left my mother and, having nothing better to do, enlisted in the Army and ended up in Vietnam, where he was killed in a forklift accident. His family bitterly blamed my mother for his enlistment and thus his death, and they floated away from her. I never knew them. 
 Meanwhile my mother wanted to replant her life; she moved to New York City and almost immediately met a minor U.N. bureaucrat 10 years older named Peter Young who didn't mind that she had a 2-year-old son. He married my mother, adopted me as his own, gave us his name and somehow provided us a decent living on his meager salary. He taught me how to type, throw a curveball, use chopsticks and shave. He was the best thing that ever happened to us, a good husband and a good father -- my real father, as far as I'm concerned. I miss him, every day. I loved him, my mother loved him and he loved us with all that he had. We were the unexpected bounty in his life, arriving just at the age when he'd given up on having a family after a series of doomed romances. My mother and I knew we were this bounty, and we knew Dad was grateful, because he said as much. He smoked a lot of pot, though, out on the balcony of our apartment, and I think it gave him lung cancer; he died in the mid-'80s, just as I was finishing law school. And about to begin the lost years, trying to be a baby prosecutor in Queens but feeling pretty awful about everything, including how much my mother missed her dead husband. 
 This was around the time that I got sent down to Patton, Corbett & Strode, on the recommendation of someone who had some connection to the firm, and when I got there, Wilson Corbett himself saw me in his office and asked about school and so on. They hired me, and I began my adult life. With my Patton, Corbett & Strode paycheck, I paid off my school loans, purchased my first car, bought my wife's wedding ring, our honeymoon, our apartment, paid the pediatrician's bill for our baby girl, the school bills, the second, third and fourth cars, the casket for my mother when she died four years ago. I've paid for my whole life as a man with my law-firm paycheck, and I'm grateful. Damned grateful. I know that my life could have been completely different. I could have messed it all up, even before it really began. 
 As far as Manhattan goes, I know I haven't really amounted to much. I'm not remarkably talented or successful. And that's fine. I'm a guy who lived my life straight, not too many hills or valleys, and my wife still can look at me, and our daughter is a good student at a decent university. And it's all because of Old Man Corbett. So the truth of it was that if his widow was calling in an old chit, asking me to find out about her dead son, then I was good for it. I was going to see it through. Come what may. I hadn't said all this to my wife, but I didn't need to. She knew. This was about keeping the big books in order. If Mrs. Corbett died and I'd turned my back on her, then that would be with me forever, and I wouldn't ever be able to fix it. I had enough regrets already, didn't want to add any more.
 On the way uptown on Eighth Avenue, the cabby rapped on the plexiglass divider.
 ''What?''
 ''Hey, pal, you in some kind of trouble?''
 ''No, why?''
 ''Somebody been following us since I picked you up. They pulled out soon as we got going.''
 Both Hicks, the private investigator hired by Mrs. Corbett, and Mort, the bartender at the Blue Curtain Lounge, told me to watch out for some other people involved with Roger Corbett. ''Where are they?''
 ''Don't look around. Trust me, I seen 'em. White van. You know anybody like that?''
 ''Nope.''
 ''What d'you want me to do?''
 I didn't want anybody following me home. ''Cut east on 50th Street!''
 I had him drop me on Broadway, where I hopped out after paying the fare. The subway stairs are about four steps from the curb, and I popped out of the taxi the way Latrell Sprewell used to shoot through the lane for the Knicks. Back in the '90s, when they were good. I moved pretty fast for an old slow guy, right down into the subway.
 Had I gotten away? It seemed so, at the time. 
 Next week: George has an intriguing meeting with the alluring Eliska Sedlacek.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LAST WEEK: George went through Roger's personal effects at the storage facility and walked off with a few things. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LEVINTHAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



576 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Letters Energy And Tariffs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''This Global Show Must Go On'' (Economic View, June 8) described the benefits of freer trade. I would agree, except when it comes to imported oil and energy supplies.
 Price is the best allocator of scarce resources. By imposing tariffs on energy from overseas, we can reduce other taxes on a revenue-neutral basis. And, in the process, we can encourage domestic energy sources, provide incentives for alternative energy, promote efficiency and reward conservation.
 Reducing imported energy lowers the current account deficit and begins the essential long-term task of curtailing dependence on politically unstable and unfriendly foreign suppliers. Tom Willoughby
 Columbus, Ohio, June 9 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (85%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008



577 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: One Mall, Two Realities. The Builder's Is Winning.

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Oyster Bay 

 BODY:
 IRONIC, sort of, that Long Island, the sprawling New York appendage that has, on occasion, imagined itself going solo and becoming the 51st state -- a pipe dream that instantly earned it a mocking motto, ''the strip mall state,'' from Newsday -- has morphed into a mall-hater. Has the unthinkable come to pass? 
 Faced with the tantalizing opportunity to play host to its first Neiman Marcus, indulge itself with a second Nordstrom in Nassau County (talk about an adventure in upper-echelon retail) and earn the inalienable bragging rights automatic to any island brazen enough to juggle nine megamalls, the Town of Oyster Bay is instead taking a quality of life/eight-is-enough rain check. And it is doing so in direct defiance of a blistering 29-page State Supreme Court order earlier this month to quit the Nimby antics and issue the special use permit required for the mall's construction. Pronto. 
 Strange, in these stressed economic times, to shun a guaranteed source of thousands of jobs (first would come the construction jobs, then 750,000 square feet worth of retail employment) and millions of property tax dollars. Even Newsday, the region's paper of record, has editorially greenlighted megamall No. 9; luxury malls that gussy up eyesores apparently trump strip malls that are eyesores. But there's a but.
 ''The reality is that we are overmalled on Long Island,'' said Todd Fabricant of Jericho, who lives six blocks from the proposed megamall No. 9 and is, not coincidentally, the chairman of the Cerro Wire Coalition, a civic association entrenched, along with the town, in the court battle over the mall.
 The coalition much prefers, according to Mr. Fabricant, to bring a tasteful Marriott, 500 ''affordable'' condominium units and a modest office/retail complex to Oyster Bay, and went so far as to produce its own plan for the unsightly site. ''We're not looking for parks or ball fields or open space; we're looking for smart growth,'' he said. 
 The coalition also looked for, and found, financial support for its position from the Simon Property Group, which operates three Island megamalls: Roosevelt Field, Walt Whitman and Smith Haven. Acting Justice Jeffrey A. Spinner of the State Supreme Court found this troubling; Mr. Fabricant, who says he collected 40,000 signatures on his group's townwide antimall petition, begs to differ. 
 ''We're not a shill for Simon; I don't get free gift cards at their malls,'' he said. ''It does look on the surface like they are trying to stop their competitor, but at the end of the day, so are we.'' 
 Intriguingly, the object of the citizenry's extreme ire, the Mall at Oyster Bay, is not close to a reality. It remains, through seven years of litigation and three full rounds in State Supreme Court, a $500 million twinkle in the eye of Taubman Centers Inc., a Michigan-based corporation that wants to erect a shoppers' nirvana in Syosset on 39 bleak industrial-zoned acres adjacent to the Long Island Expressway. 
 What was once the Cerro Wire and Cable Company factory -- it entered obsolescence more than 20 years ago -- is now a blank slate owned by Taubman, whose relationship with Simon is apparently of the Capulet-Montague variety. A feud in the mallosphere; how modern. 
 Taubman, which operates New Jersey's high-end destination mall in Short Hills, has envisioned a similar knock-your-socks-off (not to mention its impact on your wallet) luxury shopping experience for Syosset since 1995. Which was back in that quaint era before shoppers let their fingers do the walking -- and buying -- online. Back before gasoline-fueled shopping jaunts clocked in at a daunting $4.50 per gallon. But no matter. Taubman presses on.
 So does the Town of Oyster Bay, whose veteran supervisor, John Venditto, lives within walking distance of the ho-hum Sunrise Mall in Massapequa. He would need to drive 10 or so miles should he wish to patronize a 21st-century extravaganza like the Mall at Oyster Bay. Which he emphatically does not. 
 ''Malls, malls everywhere; we're at the point where we're saturated,'' Mr. Venditto, a lawyer in his pregovernment career, said last week from his Town Hall office, where the decorative conversation piece, a plaque, displays an oft-quoted, oft-misunderstood snippet from Shakespeare: ''The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.'' 
 Not unless you're a fan of anarchy, remarked Mr. Venditto. He isn't. But he is displeased by the evolution of the court proceedings in this mall matter. ''A court of law is, with increasing intensity, setting itself up as the Oyster Bay Town Board,'' he said. He feels infringed upon.
 Two weeks ago, Justice Spinner, the second judge to mull the case of the moribund mall, issued his ruling: in a nutshell, Taubman has a right to build its mall, and the town has no legal, environmental or civic leg to stand on regarding its refusal to issue a special-use permit. Justice Spinner also appointed himself, in essence, chaperon of the case: it seems he doesn't trust the town and the coalition to back off. Both sides are due back in court in September for a progress check.
 ''The surrealism continues,'' Mr. Venditto said.
 Lucky us. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE LAND: The Sysosset site for the proposed Mall at Oyster Bay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIC DELUCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. LI2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PETITIONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); APPEALS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); CONDOMINIUMS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (67%); PROPERTY TAX (66%)

COMPANY: NEWSDAY INC (92%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (52%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008



578 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Now That We've 'Won,' Let's Come Home

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE Iraq war's defenders like to bash the press for pushing the bad news and ignoring the good. Maybe they'll be happy to hear that the bad news doesn't rate anymore. When a bomb killed at least 51 Iraqis at a Baghdad market on Tuesday, ending an extended run of relative calm, only one of the three network newscasts (NBC's) even bothered to mention it.
 The only problem is that no news from Iraq isn't good news -- it's no news. The night of the Baghdad bombing the CBS war correspondent Lara Logan appeared as Jon Stewart's guest on ''The Daily Show'' to lament the vanishing television coverage and the even steeper falloff in viewer interest. ''Tell me the last time you saw the body of a dead American soldier,'' she said. After pointing out that more soldiers died in Afghanistan than Iraq last month, she asked, ''Who's paying attention to that?'' 
 Her question was rhetorical, but there is an answer: Virtually no one. If you follow the nation's op-ed pages and the presidential campaign, Iraq seems as contentious an issue as Vietnam was in 1968. But in the country itself, Cindy vs. Michelle, not Shiites vs. Sunnis, is the hotter battle. This isn't the press's fault, and it isn't the public's fault. It's merely the way things are.
 In America, the war has been a settled issue since early 2007. No matter what has happened in Iraq since then, no matter what anyone on any side of the Iraq debate has had to say about it, polls have consistently found that a majority of Americans judge the war a mistake and want out. For that majority, the war is over except for finalizing the withdrawal details. They've moved on without waiting for the results of Election Day 2008 or sampling the latest hectoring ad from moveon.org.
 Perhaps if Americans had been asked for shared sacrifice at the war's inception, including a draft, they would be in 1968-ish turmoil now. But they weren't, and they aren't. In 2008, the Vietnam analogy doesn't hold. The center does.
 The good news for Democrats -- and the big opportunity for Barack Obama -- is that John McCain and the war's last cheerleaders don't recognize that immutable reality. They're so barricaded in their own Vietnam bunker that they think the country is too. It's their constant and often shrill refrain that if only those peacenik McGovern Democrats and the ''liberal media'' acknowledged that violence is down in Iraq -- as indeed it is, substantially -- voters will want to press on to ''victory'' and not ''surrender.'' And therefore go for Mr. McCain.
 One neocon pundit, Charles Krauthammer, summed up this alternative-reality mind-set in a recent column piously commanding Mr. McCain to ''make the election about Iraq'' because ''everything is changed,'' and ''we are winning on every front.'' The war, he wrote, can be ''the central winning plank of his campaign.'' (Italics his.) 
 This hyperventilating wasn't necessary, because this is what Mr. McCain is already trying to do. His first general election ad, boosted by a large media buy in swing states this month, was all about war. It invoked his Vietnam heroism and tried to have it both ways on Iraq by at once presenting Mr. McCain as a stay-the-course warrior and taking a (timid) swipe at President Bush. ''Only a fool or a fraud talks tough or romantically about war,'' Mr. McCain said in his voice-over. That unnamed fool would be our cowboy president, who in March told American troops how he envied their ''in some ways romantic'' task of ''confronting danger.'' 
 But reminding voters of his identification with Iraq, no matter how he spins it, pays no political dividends to Mr. McCain. People just don't want to hear about it. Last week, the first polls conducted in Pennsylvania and Ohio since the ad began running there found him well behindin both states.
 The G.O.P.'s badgering of Mr. Obama about the war is also backfiring. In sync with Mr. McCain, the Republican National Committee unveiled an online clock -- ''Track How Long Since Obama Was in Iraq!'' -- only to have Mr. Obama call the bluff by announcing that he will go to both Afghanistan and Iraq before the election. Unless he takes along his own Lieberman-like Jiminy Cricket to whisper factual corrections into his ear, this trip is likely to enhance his stature as a potential commander in chief.
 The other whiny line of G.O.P.-McCain attack is to demand incessantly that Mr. Obama stop refusing to recognize the decline in violence in Iraq, stop calling for a hasty troop withdrawal and stop ignoring commanders on the ground in assessing his exit strategy. Here, too, Mr. Obama is calling their bluff, though not nearly as loudly as he will, I suspect, in the debates.
 The fact is that Mr. Obama frequently recognizes ''the reduction of violence in Iraq'' (his words) and has said he is ''encouraged'' by it. He has never said that he would refuse to consult with commanders on the ground, and he has never called for a precipitous withdrawal. His mantra on Iraq, to the point of tedium, has always been that ''we must be as careful getting out as we were careless getting in.'' His roughly 16-month timetable isn't hasty and isn't ''retreat.'' As The Economist, a supporter of the war, recently put it, a safer Iraq does not necessarily validate Mr. McCain's ''insistence on America staying indefinitely'' and might make Mr. Obama's 16-month framework ''more feasible.'' 
 After all, the point of the surge, as laid out by Mr. Bush, was to buy time for political reconciliation among the Iraqis. The results have been at best spotty, and even the crucial de-Baathification law celebrated by Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain in January remains inoperative. Mr. Obama's timetable is at least an effort to use any remaining American leverage to concentrate the Iraqi leaders' thinking. Mr. McCain offers only the status quo: a blank check holding America hostage to fate and ceding the president's civilian authority over war policy to Gen. David Petraeus and his successors. 
 Should voters tune in, they'll also discover that the McCain policy is nonsensical on its face. If ''we are winning'' and the surge is a ''success,'' then what is the rationale for keeping American forces bogged down there while the Taliban regroups ominously in Afghanistan? Why, if this is victory, does Mr. McCain keep threatening that ''chaos and genocide'' will follow our departure? And why should we take the word of a prophet who failed to anticipate the chaos and ethnic cleansing that would greet our occupation?
 And exactly how, as Mr. McCain keeps claiming, is an indefinite American occupation akin to our long-term military role in South Korea? The diminution of violence notwithstanding, Iraq is an active war zone. And unlike South Korea, it isn't asking America to remain to protect it from a threatening neighbor. Iraq's most malevolent neighbor, Iran, is arguably Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's closest ally. In the most recent survey, in February, only 27 percent of Iraqis said the American presence is improving their country's security. Far from begging us to stay, some Iraqi politicians, including Mr. Maliki, have been pandering to their own election-year voters by threatening to throw the Yankees out. 
 Mr. McCain's sorest Achilles' heel, of course, is his role in facilitating the fiasco in the first place. Someone in his campaign has figured this out. Go to JohnMcCain.com and, hilariously enough, you'll find a ''McCain on Iraq Timeline'' that conveniently begins in August 2003, months after ''Mission Accomplished.'' Vanished into the memory hole are such earlier examples of the McCain Iraq wisdom as ''the end is very much in sight'' (April 9, 2003) and ''there's not a history of clashes that are violent between Sunnis and Shiites'' (later that same month).
 To finesse this embarrassing record, Mr. McCain asks us to believe that the only judgment that matters is who was ''right'' about the surge, not who was right about our reckless plunge into war. That's like saying he deserves credit for tossing life preservers to the survivors after encouraging the captain of the Titanic to plow full speed ahead into the iceberg. 
 But as Lara Logan asked, who's paying attention to any of this Iraq stuff anyway? That Mr. McCain makes an unpopular and half-forgotten war the centerpiece of his campaign may simply be a default posture -- the legacy of his Vietnam service and a recognition that any war, good or bad, is still a stronger suit for him than delving into the details of health care, education, tax policy or the mortgage crisis. 
 Even so, it leaves him trapped in a Catch-22. If violence continues to subside in Iraq -- if, as Mr. McCain has it, we keep ''winning'' -- it will only call more attention to the internal contradictions of a policy that says success in Iraq should be punished by forcing American troops to stay there indefinitely. And if Iraq reignites, well, so much for ''winning.''
 Not that the Obama policy is foolproof either. As everyone knows, there are no good options in Iraq. Our best hope for a bipartisan resolution of this disaster may be for a President Obama to appoint Mr. McCain as a special envoy to Baghdad, where he can stay for as long as he needs to administer our withdrawal or 100 years, whichever comes first.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); LIBERAL MEDIA (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (64%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008



579 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In Confronting the Foreclosure Crisis, a Bill Strikes a Balance

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The bill that Gov. David A. Paterson and leaders of the State Legislature announced last week to address the subprime lending and foreclosure crisis was, for Albany, that rarest of things -- an effective compromise.
 The legislation will change how subprime loans are made and regulated and will alter the way many foreclosures are handled by the courts, establishing protections for homeowners that had not been in place.
 For housing advocates and some Assembly Democrats, the bill could have been stronger. Their push for a statewide one-year moratorium on foreclosures ultimately failed. For the state's banking and mortgage broker industries, it could have been weaker. They argued that New York has seen fewer foreclosure filings than other states largely because of regulations already in place. 
 But the end product -- a bill expected to pass on Monday, the last day of the legislative session -- appears to have struck a balance that satisfies nearly all sides, though housing advocates question the extent to which it will help thousands of homeowners most in need: Those going through foreclosures right now.
 ''This will certainly make a difference, and this will help save homes,'' said Josh Zinner, co-director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, a fair-lending organization that is part of a coalition of groups pressing for passage of the bill. ''It's not as broad as we would have hoped, but it certainly is a positive for New York homeowners.''
 Mr. Zinner, other housing advocates and city and state lawmakers have grown increasingly alarmed about the rising number of foreclosure filings and the spread of subprime lending in New York City's largely minority neighborhoods and in parts of upstate.
 Foreclosure filings in New York City doubled from 2004 to 2007, increasing to 14,912 last year from 7,069, according to an analysis by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. Queens alone had 6,157 foreclosure filings last year, nearly matching the total for the entire city in 1993: 6,171.
 Perhaps the quickest, boldest and, some believed, riskiest way to stem the flood of filings was a one-year moratorium on subprime foreclosures, which the Assembly passed in May. It would have been the first foreclosure moratorium in the state since 1933, and was strongly opposed by the New York Bankers Association. But the failed effort produced at least one benefit: It made every other proposal look moderate in comparison.
 ''I actually believe that the pressure for this moratorium led the Senate and the banking industry to compromise,'' said Assemblyman James F. Brennan, a Brooklyn Democrat, who along with State Senator Frank Padavan, a Queens Republican, introduced the moratorium in both houses in December. ''We used the moratorium as a wedge.''
 The bill announced on Thursday was based on a proposal put forward by Gov. Eliot Spitzer before he resigned in March. Two of the main provisions are firsts for New York State: One requires lenders to warn borrowers in writing at least 90 days before starting foreclosure proceedings, and the other requires the courts to hold a settlement conference between the lender and a subprime borrower facing foreclosure.
 Both provisions are aimed at bringing lenders and borrowers together before foreclosure becomes inevitable. Supporters say the measures increase the chances of settlements that modify the terms of the loans, prevent foreclosures and allow homeowners to stay in their homes.
 The 90-day notice, which also requires lenders to list the names and phone numbers of housing counselors in the borrower's area, serves as an early-warning system. Currently, the first notice a lender is required to send to a homeowner who has defaulted comes attached to the summons and complaint that initiates a foreclosure proceeding. That notice simply states that mortgage foreclosure is a complex process, and it encourages homeowners to contact government agencies or nonprofit groups.
 ''We believe it comes too late in the process, once the action has already commenced,'' said Gaurav Vasisht, an assistant counsel to the governor who was involved in developing the bill, which Governor Paterson is expected to sign into law this summer. 
 The settlement conferences are required to take place within 60 days of when the lender files proof that the borrower has been served with legal papers. No settlement conferences are currently required at such an early stage.
 Mr. Zinner said the significance of the conferences is that homeowners often fail to even answer a foreclosure action because they cannot afford a lawyer and do not know how to navigate the legal system, thus forfeiting their chance to defend themselves before a judge. ''This new process will enable many more borrowers to get before the courts and therefore greatly increase the likelihood of these borrowers resolving their cases and not losing their homes in foreclosure,'' he said.
 Those two provisions apply to subprime loans taken out between Jan. 1, 2003, and Sept. 1, 2008, but do not apply to future loans, a decision that concerns housing advocates but that Mr. Vasisht described, given the bill's other protections, as unnecessary.
 The bill, among other things, requires mortgage brokers to act in the borrower's interest by presenting loans that are most appropriate for the borrower. It also mandates that lenders make a ''reasonable and good faith determination'' of a subprime borrower's ability to repay the loan, based on income, job status and other factors. Under the bill's underwriting standards, subprime loans will be barred from carrying prepayment penalties.
 ''By and large, the people we see have loans that they never should have obtained in the first place,'' said Ismene Speliotis, executive director of New York Acorn Housing. ''Had this legislation been on the books even a few years ago, we wouldn't be seeing many of the problems we're seeing today.''
 The bill's consumer-protection provisions take effect within 60 days of being signed into law, and any lender or broker who is found to have violated them could face charges, fines or other penalties from the attorney general's office or the State Banking Department.
 ''I'm unaware of any other state that has taken as comprehensive an approach to address the subprime crisis, to assist current borrowers at risk and to assure that the crisis never happens again,'' said Richard H. Neiman, New York's superintendent of banks.
 Meanwhile, the idea for the moratorium, as is often the case in Albany, is subject to resuscitation. Assemblyman Brennan said he plans to give it another try next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



580 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Depleted In Dairyland

BYLINE: By LAUREN FOX. 
Lauren Fox is the author of the novel ''Still Life With Husband.''

DATELINE: Shorewood, Wis. 

 BODY:
 A LITTLE while ago, just before Hillary Clinton finally conceded the race for the Democratic nomination, my 5-year-old daughter picked up the phone and announced, out of the blue (so to speak), ''I'm calling Barack Obama.'' 
 Now, normally I save the cute kid stories for the immediate family. But I think that my daughter's outreach plan demonstrates that there is something in the air here in Wisconsin. After all, my husband and I are not the kind of people who subject our daughter to dinnertime discussions of fiscal policy or outfit the baby in ''My Mama Loves Obama'' onesies. We're the kind of people who talk politics only after the children are in bed and we are drunk.
 When people who can't tie their shoes are suddenly civic-minded, when even kindergartners can effortlessly tune in to the country's political frequency, I'm pretty sure we've hit the tipping point. Things are decidedly not so good in Wisconsin. General Motors has just announced that it will be closing its plant in Janesville, leaving 2,400 people jobless. Part of the town of Lake Delton, near the tourist area of the Wisconsin Dells, washed away in this month's catastrophic floods. The proportion of the state's children who live in poverty increased to 15 percent, from 12 percent, over six years.
 And so, according to recent polls, Barack Obama is a shoo-in here, a no-brainer. In 2004, John Kerry won the state by less than one-half of one percent. But things have gone south since then, and we are poised for an Obama landslide.
 I thought, after Mr. Obama clinched the nomination, that Wisconsinites would be all aquiver, that my friends and neighbors would share the thrill of this historical moment. For months, we'd been exchanging glances across the frozen tundra, wild-eyed, wondering whether all the infighting would spoil the race. 
 But now that it's finally over, all the Hillary Clinton supporters I know have switched allegiances to Senator Obama, more or less happily, and there is quiet. My ear to the ground, I have heard almost no talk of politics since June 3, save for an occasional squeak. (''An Obama/Clinton ticket would be unbeatable,'' one friend exclaimed in the heat of the moment, and then quickly revised his opinion.) We are, it seems, finally, irrefutably fried from constant talk of the Democratic race; we are overcooked; stick a fork in us, we're done. 
 For Wisconsinites, this silence may be an exhalation, the breath of relief that for us, the race is basically over. 
 Or maybe it's the hushed fear that for the rest of the country, it's not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CHILD POVERTY (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); CLOSINGS (66%); POVERTY RATES (65%); FLOODS & FLOODING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



581 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
NEW ENGLAND WHITE, by Stephen L. Carter. (Vintage, $14.95.) Carter, who teaches at Yale Law School and is the author of ''The Emperor of Ocean Park'' as well as several works of nonfiction, combines mystery, academic satire and reporting on the lifestyles of the black upper class in this stylishly written novel. The wife of the black president of a university much like Yale, herself a divinity school dean, investigates the death of her former lover, an economist who was collecting evidence about a 30-year-old murder that threatened powerful politicians -- including her husband's college roommate, now the president of the United States. 
 CLAPTON: The Autobiography, by Eric Clapton. (Broadway, $15.95.) The world's most famous rock-and-blues guitarist has written a searingly honest account of ''how he became the rock 'n' roll version of Harry Potter ... the Boy Who Lived,'' our reviewer, Stephen King, wrote. Clapton describes the groups he played with, the musicians he has known, his complicated love life -- particularly his infatuation with, marriage to and divorce from Pattie Boyd, who tells her side of the story in WONDERFUL TONIGHT: George Harrison, Eric Clapton, and Me (Three Rivers, $14.95), written with Penny Junor -- and his addiction to heroin and alcohol, now 20 years in the past. King notes that Clapton finds it hard to communicate what his music means to him. ''That's why they're songs,'' Clapton writes. 
 ON CHESIL BEACH, by Ian McEwan. (Anchor, $13.95.) In July 1962, on the eve of the sexual revolution, a young couple's disastrous wedding night has irrevocable effects. Writing in the Book Review, Jonathan Lethem praised McEwan's ''boundless sympathy,'' which ''enlists the reader.'' ''This seeming novel of manners,'' Lethem continued, ''is as fundamentally a horror novel as any McEwan's written. 
 SICK: The Untold Story of America's Health Care Crisis -- and the People Who Pay the Price, by Jonathan Cohn. (Harper Perennial, $14.95.) Just in time for the election, Cohn, a senior editor at The New Republic, examines America's health care crisis, demonstrating through vignettes about ordinary people how the system's financing determines who gets proper care and who doesn't. He finds the French system the ''showcase for what universal health care can achieve.'' In VACCINE: The Controversial Story of Medicine's Greatest Lifesaver (Norton, $17.95), Arthur Allen crisply traces both the history of vaccination and the controversies about it. Today's opponents are uninformed about the diseases their children are being inoculated against, Allen says, and he would welcome a frank national discussion about risks and benefits. 
 ONCE UPON A COUNTRY: A Palestinian Life, by Sari Nusseibeh with Anthony David. (Picador, $16.) The president of Al Quds University and a philosopher trained at Oxford and Harvard, Nusseibeh has long renounced violence and called for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In this ''fascinating and deeply intelligent memoir,'' as Ethan Bronner described it in The Times, he recounts his ancient family's experience during the 1948 war, his work as a volunteer on an Israeli archaeological dig and his imprisonment in Jerusalem in 1991. Palestinians and Israelis must learn to understand one another, he argues. 
 TEARING DOWN THE WALL OF SOUND: The Rise and Fall of Phil Spector, by Mick Brown. (Vintage, $16.95.) Brown, a British rock journalist, explains Spector's achievements as a record producer, but he focuses on his cruelty, his mistreatment of musicians and his growing alcohol-fueled paranoia. One of Spector's mentors is the subject of LONELY AVENUE: The Unlikely Life and Times of Doc Pomus, by Alex Halberstadt (Da Capo, $16). Pomus's rock 'n' roll songs of the late '50s and early '60s, filled with melancholy and yearning, drew on his personal and professional frustrations. 
 BLACK & WHITE, by Dani Shapiro. (Anchor, $13.95.) In this novel, a photographer becomes famous for her intimate pictures of her daughter (the work of Sally Mann may come to mind). The daughter flees the notoriety for a quiet life in Maine, but 14 years later, when her mother is dying of cancer, she returns to New York to come to terms with their personal and artistic past. 
 BURIED IN THE BITTER WATERS: The Hidden History of Racial Cleansing in America, by Elliot Jaspin. (Basic, $15.95.) Jaspin, whose specialty is computer-assisted reporting, discovered a troubling pattern: between 1890 and 1930, census data showed 260 counties in which the black population appeared to drop suddenly by more than 50 percent. In more than a dozen counties, he found evidence of mass racial expulsions, often precipitated by allegations of crimes by African-Americans, but more often economic in motivation. 
 RANT: An Oral Biography of Buster Casey, by Chuck Palahniuk. (Anchor, $13.95.) The author of ''Fight Club'' returns with a novel about a dystopian folk hero who may have been a serial killer. It displays his usual angry imagination and outrageous humor, but our reviewer, Field Maloney, warned that it feels stale and that ''even his admirers may be disappointed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSIC (88%); VACCINES (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MURDER (76%); POLITICS (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); POP & ROCK (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); HEROIN (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (52%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



582 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 5074 words

HEADLINE: A Green Coal Baron?

BYLINE: By CLIVE THOMPSON. 
Clive Thompson, a contributing writer for the magazine, writes frequently about technology.

 BODY:
When I met with Jim Rogers one day this spring, he tossed back two double espressos in a single hour. A charming and natty 60-year-old, Rogers is the chief executive of the electric company Duke Energy. But he has none of the macho, cowboy stolidity you might expect in an energy C.E.O. Instead, he lives to brainstorm. He spends more than half his time on the road, a perennial fixture at wonky gatherings like the Davos World Economic Forum and the Clinton Global Initiative, corralling ''clean energy'' thinkers and listening eagerly to their ideas. The day we met, he was brimming with enthusiasm for a new approach to solar power. Solar is currently too expensive to make economic sense, according to Rogers, because the cost to put panels on a roof is greater than what a household would save on electricity. But what if Duke bought panels en masse, driving the price down, and installed them itself -- free? 
 ''So we have 500,000 solar units on the roofs of our customers,'' he said. ''We install them, we maintain them and we dispatch them, just like it was a power plant!'' He did some quick math: he could get maybe 1,000 megawatts out of that system, enough to permanently shutter one of the company's older power plants. He shot me a toothy grin.
 Even in this era of green evangelism, Rogers is a genuine anomaly. As the head of Duke Energy, with its dozens of coal-burning electric plants scattered around the Midwest and the Carolinas, he represents one of the country's biggest sources of greenhouse gases. The company pumps 100 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year, making it the third-largest corporate emitter in the United States.
 Yet Rogers, who makes $10 million a year, is also one of the electricity industry's most vocal environmentalists. For years, he has opened his doors to the kinds of green activists who would give palpitations to most energy C.E.O.'s. In March, he had breakfast with James Lovelock, the originator of the Gaia theory, which regards the earth as a single, living organism, to discuss whether species can adapt to a warmer earth. In April, James Hansen, a climatologist at NASA and one of the first scientists to publicly warn about global warming, wrote an open letter urging Rogers to stop burning coal -- so Rogers took him out for a three-hour dinner in Manhattan. ''I would dare say that no one in the industry would talk to Lovelock and Hansen,'' Rogers told me. Last year, Rogers astonished his board when he presented his plan to ''decarbonize'' Duke Energy by 2050 -- in effect, to retool the utility so that it emits very little carbon dioxide.
 Perhaps most controversial, though, Rogers has long advocated stiff regulation of greenhouses gases. For the last few years, he has relentlessly lobbied Washington to create a ''carbon cap'' law that strictly limits the amount of carbon dioxide produced in the United States, one that would impose enormous costs on any company that releases more carbon than its assigned limit. That law is now on its way to becoming reality: last fall, Senators Joe Lieberman and John Warner introduced a historic ''cap-and-trade'' bill that would require the country to reduce its co2 emissions by 70 percent before 2050. Earlier this month, the bill failed to advance, but its sponsors will most likely reintroduce it next year once a new president is in office; meanwhile, a half-dozen other rival bills are currently being drawn up that all seek the same thing. One way or another, a carbon cap is coming.
 Prominent environmentalists, thrilled, credit Rogers for clearing the way politically; many are his friends. ''It's fair to say that we wouldn't be where we are in Congress if it weren't for him,'' says Eileen Claussen, head of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. ''He helped put carbon legislation on the map.'' This should be a golden moment for Rogers: he has godfathered a bill that could significantly reshape the electricity industry, help balance the world's climate and establish his legacy as a visionary C.E.O. -- a ''statesman,'' as he puts it. Instead, he is very, very worried, fearful that the real-world version of his dream legislation may end up threatening the company he has spent so many years building.
 Though the details are devilish, the basic cap-and-trade concept is simple. The government makes it expensive for companies to emit carbon dioxide, and then market forces work their magic: those companies aggressively seek ways to avoid producing the stuff, to try to get a competitive edge on one another.
 This is precisely how the government dealt with acid rain, back in the late '80s. Acid rain, like global warming to a great extent, was caused by dangerous byproducts from burning coal: the chemicals sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, or ''sox and nox,'' as they were known colloquially. Environmentalists in the '80s tried to get Ronald Reagan's Environmental Protection Agency to crack down on sox and nox, but an antiregulatory mood prevailed. So a group of politicians and forward-thinking environmentalists turned to the marketplace instead.
 Through legislation, the government first set a limit, or cap, on how much sox and nox could be discharged by the nation's coal-burning utilities. These companies then regularly received allowances based on their historic levels of emissions. At the end of a predetermined period, every company had to possess enough in the way of allowances to cover the gases it released or face stiff penalties. Over time, the cap and the number of allowances were slowly reduced.
 A system like this creates a carrot and a stick. An electrical utility that reduces its pollution below the cap has leftover allowances to sell to other companies. In theory, a virtuous cycle emerges: a company that invests money to clean up its emissions can more than recoup its outlay by selling unused allowances to its dirtier, laggard competitors. Furthermore, entrepreneurs have an incentive to develop cleanup technologies. And sure enough, following the Clean Air Act amendments in 1990, innovations emerged quickly, ranging from new coal blends to chemical ''scrubbers'' that removed sox and nox from the smokestacks. Government and industry officials predicted that solving the problem of acid rain could cost $4 billion in new investment -- but the marketplace was so efficient that only an estimated $1 billion was needed.
 A cap-and-trade program for co2 would try to harness the same dynamics. There are several bills under development -- Lieberman-Warner is the most advanced, and the one most likely to pass next year -- but they all take roughly the same approach. Greenhouse-gas emissions are capped in key carbon-dioxide-producing industries like gas, oil and electricity. Allowances are issued and companies are free to sell them to one another. Then the cap and number of allowances are ratcheted down over time, sparking, it's hoped, the same Cambrian-like explosion in the development of cheaper, cleaner technologies.
 If Rogers is keen on the idea of cap and trade, it's because the acid-rain fight was one of his formative experiences as a C.E.O. His first job was a three-year stint as a journalist in Lexington, Ky. -- ''I was a journalist, so I'm allowed to be a little cynical at times,'' he likes to joke -- before heading to law school and working as a public advocate in his home state of Kentucky. In 1988, by then 40 years old, he switched sides -- the Indiana electrical utility PSI Energy teetered on the verge of bankruptcy, and Rogers was offered the job of turning it around.
 Part of what ruined PSI was a $2.7-billion write-off of its nuclear plant when local environmentalists forced PSI to halt its construction after the Three Mile Island accident. Rather than demonize the environmentalists, Rogers instead decided to ''put on a flannel shirt'' and meet with them in a cafe in Madison, Ind. Phil Sharp, a U.S. representative for Indiana at the time, recalls the activists' astonishment. ''They couldn't believe it,'' he says. ''They were always used to taking on the big utility companies. Then he came in and instead of saying, What craziness is this, he said, O.K., let's talk.'' It was partly self-protection, of course; Rogers knew that public opinion could ruin a company. Aware that the environmentalists were also worried about acid rain, Rogers decided it was a problem he should head off.
 When cap and trade was proposed as a solution to acid rain, most energy executives whose companies burned coal hated the idea and lobbied fiercely against it. It wasn't merely that they tended to resist regulation. They also didn't believe it would work: they didn't trust that the necessary technology would evolve fast enough. If it didn't, they worried, very few firms would have extra allowances to sell, and the price of those on the open market would skyrocket. Companies might go broke trying to buy extra allowances to meet their cap.
 Rogers was the outlier. He loved the elegance of the market-based approach, and he had a nerd's optimism that the technology would bloom quickly. ''And we were right,'' he says. ''So that's what gave me the faith that this approach works. All you have to do is set the market up right.'' PSI spent only $250 million to clean up its smokestacks, and allowances were ''cheap and plentiful,'' Rogers says.
 Even as acid rain was being confronted in 1990, climate change was entering the public debate. By this time, Rogers was friends with a number of environmentalists and decided to dive into the science of global warming. He began inviting climate experts from Harvard, NASA and various research firms to brief him. ''Pretty soon, I could see that the science was persuasive,'' Rogers recalls. Many policy makers behind the acid-rain cleanup suspected that a cap-and-trade program could whip the carbon problem too. Rogers agreed. ''What's unusual about Jim is that he recognized these problems not as a woe-is-me burden but as real growth opportunities, opportunities to change his industry,'' says Tim Wirth, president of the United Nations Foundation and a former senator from Colorado who helped write the acid-rain legislation. ''That allows him to be cheerful in the face of the opposition.''
 And there was plenty of opposition. Back then, merely acknowledging the existence of global warming was a thought crime among coal-burning energy executives. But as early as 2001, Rogers told a meeting of fellow C.E.O.'s in the industry that they should all work to pass a federal carbon cap. ''They were stunned,'' recalls Ralph Cavanagh, an energy program director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, who was present at the meeting. ''That was the first time I had heard a major energy executive say anything like this. But because he was chairman of their energy committee, he wasn't just a flaky maverick.'' Sharp, a longtime friend, chuckles when he remembers how much ire Rogers generated. ''They hated him,'' he says. ''Nobody would invite him for golf.''
 Rogers's environmentalism has a weird flavor to it. Most people involved in the cap-and-trade process talk about their polar-bear moment -- the instant when they realized the earth is imperiled. (John Warner, the Republican co-sponsor of the Lieberman-Warner bill, told me his inspiration came when he visited a forest he worked in as a teenager and found it decimated by a change in weather patterns.) In eight months of meeting with Rogers, listening to his speeches and watching him in action, I kept waiting to hear about his polar-bear moment, but it never came. Rogers's environmentalism is practical, enthusiastic and intrigued by clean-tech innovations, not given to heartstring-tugging rhetoric about vanishing species or redwood trees.
 Rogers does, however, talk frequently about ''the grandchildren test.'' ''I want them to be able to look back and say, 'My granddaddy made a good decision, and it's still a good decision,' '' he says. Though he's only 60, Rogers already has seven grandchildren, and he frequently takes them on trips around the world. He told me, when we met for dinner in Charlotte, N.C., how he asked his 10-year-old granddaughter Emma what she wanted to do when she grew up; she said she wanted to ''protect endangered species.'' He found it striking that such a young child would already have a sense of the precariousness of nature. ''She's an old soul, let me tell you,'' he says.
 When asked why Rogers ended up taking such a contrary approach to his job, friends point to the fact that he never trained as an engineer -- the background of most energy executives. He isn't as insular, Sharp points out, so he's interested in what critics have to say. ''Usually what people do is circle the wagons,'' Sharp says, ''but he listens.''
 It is also true that Rogers's green focus has a purely strategic element. Anyone who was paying attention to public opinion on climate change could see that the government would, sooner or later, have to limit carbon emissions. So why not plan for that -- start thinking about how your company would respond, start making friends in Washington? Rogers sunnily agrees that this was a large motivation for his environmental work. ''I wanted to get out ahead of it,'' Rogers told me the very first time I met him last August, in Washington, which he was visiting nearly weekly to brief and cajole senators.
 ''It's the old saw -- 'If you're not at the table, you're going to be on the menu,' '' he says. Last June, Rogers delivered a speech to the Senate environment committee, led by Barbara Boxer, which was beginning to assess the Lieberman-Warner bill. ''I want the Senator Boxers, Senator Lieberman or Warner -- I want them to feel confident that they can turn to me as an energy expert and trust me,'' he said then.
 To get a sense of the awesome challenge posed by ''decarbonizing'' electricity, go to one of Duke's largest coal-fired plants, near Charlotte. When I visited last summer, I first wandered into the building that houses the furnace, a long tubular mass of steel with surprisingly graceful, almost art-deco lines. Then I climbed a flight of metal stairs to the rooftop, ascending through 120-degree air that left my shirt damp with sweat. Off to one side were the ''scrubbers'' -- enormous metal contraptions that capture some of the acid-rain components by pumping the coal fumes through great waterfalls of limestone slurry. The process produces gypsum, a safe and inert mineral, which Duke sells for use in drywall. Looking down from the roof, I saw huge piles of limestone that dwarfed the trucks scurrying around them. Then it hit me: of the half-dozen structures in the coal plant, the majority are devoted not to producing energy but to cleaning it up. Or put another way, burning coal is trivially easy; it's cleaning up the emissions that requires all sorts of work and machinery.
 ''Sometimes I tell people that Duke is really just a company that processes chemicals to produce clean air, and we get electricity as a byproduct,'' Rogers said with a laugh when we met in his office afterward. If it's this difficult to strip out acid-rain chemicals, I can hardly imagine what prodigious feats of engineering will be necessary to remove co2 from electricity production.
 Rogers, however, maintains that it is possible to cut Duke's co2 emissions to half of today's levels by 2030. That would put the company in line with the goals set by the Lieberman-Warner bill or any of the other cap-and-trade alternatives, which mostly call for a 70 percent reduction in emissions by 2050. Rogers put a pad on his desk and began sketching a pie chart to show me how he'll do it.
 Currently, nearly all of Duke's emissions come from its coal-fired plants. But those plants are aging; by 2050, every one of them will have to be replaced. If the company is going to replace them anyway, Duke might as well phase in ''clean'' sources.
 It isn't quite that simple, of course. No low-carbon sources are currently big or cheap enough -- and it's not clear when they will be. For example, Rogers calculates that Duke needs two new 2,200-megawatt nuclear plants. (One of them is currently under development in South Carolina.) But these plants are hellishly difficult to construct. They're so expensive -- many billions apiece -- that historically they have required government guarantees, because Wall Street is loath to invest so much in such politically fraught projects. Rogers suspects that public opinion will shift in favor of nuclear energy eventually, because it offers huge amounts of reliable power with no direct co2 emissions.
 What about renewable energy, like wind and solar? Rogers says that by 2030 they could make up as much as 12 percent of Duke's energy supply, but they won't be a big factor for another decade, because sunshine and wind are too irregular and the plants to harvest them are still too small. This year, Duke signed a 20-year deal to buy the entire electric output of the largest solar farm in the country, SunEdison's plant in Davidson County, N.C. -- it generates all of 16 megawatts, compared with 800 megawatts from a coal plant.
 He drew another wedge in the pie chart for coal: it will shrink from producing nearly two-thirds of Duke's power to just over a quarter. Rogers predicts coal will never go away, because it's cheap and more accessible than any other energy source. The technology to remove co2 from the smokestacks and ''sequester'' it affordably is, he estimates, 10 to 15 years away. Duke is planning to build an experimental plant in Edwardsport, Ind., that will ''gasify'' coal, a tentative first step to capturing carbon. But Duke embarked on this venture only after securing a government subsidy of $460 million. Even if someone manages to make carbon sequestration feasible, Rogers worries that there's a limit to what the public will tolerate. ''We don't know what happens if the carbon leaks back out of the ground, and we've never done it successfully on scale,'' he told me. Later, he said, ''So you'll get the next version of Not in My Backyard -- it'll be Not Under My Backyard.''
 When Rogers finished, his pie chart was neatly divided into the various fuel options. This plurality is a key part of his vision: no single energy source will save us. None is so plentiful or without costs that it dominates the others. ''There's no silver bullet,'' he concluded, ''just silver buckshot.''
 Interestingly, the one green initiative Rogers says he hopes will emerge most quickly is focused not on generating power but on conserving it. Last year, he concocted the Save-a-Watt plan, which would let Duke profit from helping its customers drastically cut their energy use. Like roughly half the utilities in the United States, Duke is regulated; it can charge more for power only if it builds a new power plant and persuades the regulator to approve a rate increase to pay for it. But the fastest way to reduce a carbon footprint is by improving efficiency. Under Save-a-Watt, Duke would, for example, distribute ''smart'' meters that automatically turn off customers' appliances during periods of peak power use. For its first experiment, Duke plans to cut the consumption of its customers in the Carolinas by 1,800 megawatts, which is equal to the output of two new coal-fired plants. The regulator would then let Duke charge higher rates for the electricity its customers do use to pay for all the efficiency technology. Save-a-Watt thus turns the power business on its head: rather than charge customers more to build plants, Duke will effectively charge them not to do so.
 ''I would rather spend $8 billion implementing efficiency than spend $8 billion on building a nuclear plant,'' Rogers told me. Nuclear power has enormous construction and political risks. Efficiency doesn't. After Rogers spoke with Bill Clinton at a private retreat last year, the former president was so fired up that when he later went onstage at the annual Clinton Global Initiative conference he raved about Save-a-Watt, declaring it ''a simple, brilliant idea. It has the capacity to fundamentally change what we do in the United States.''
 As the Lieberman-Warner bill took shape last spring and summer, Rogers ought to have been feeling triumphant. Instead, he was increasingly uneasy with what the senators were doing. He was particularly alarmed by the way they planned to hand out co2 allowances.
 Among the many mind-numbing details in cap-and-trade politics, the allowances -- permission to pollute, essentially -- are the most charged. In the acid-rain trading market, the government freely gave the worst polluters the largest allowances, under the assumption that they faced the biggest challenges and needed the most financial help. But the Lieberman-Warner bill, like virtually every other cap-and-trade bill in the works, gives away only 75 percent of the allowances; the government auctions off the rest. Year by year, the percentage of allowances that will be auctioned off steadily rises, until nearly all of them are. In essence, with the stroke of a pen, the government creates a new and valuable form of property: carbon allowances. And for the government, we are talking about staggering amounts of money, the biggest new source of cash in years. Carbon allowances are projected to be worth $100 billion in the first year alone, rising to nearly $500 billion by 2050. To put that in context, an estimate prepared by the Congressional Budget Office predicts that the annual revenues from auctioning allowances will be equal to 15 percent of what the I.R.S. takes in.
 Rogers sees this as a financial disaster for Duke. By his calculations, Duke would spend at least $2 billion in the first year alone and have to raise its rates immediately by up to 40 percent to cover that. Worse, coal-fired utilities would not get the special treatment they did under the acid-rain legislation. This time around, a large number of allowances would be given away to nuclear and hydroelectric utilities that already produce very little carbon dioxide. Those companies would not need their allowances and so could sell them for a healthy profit in coal-dependent states. The Lieberman-Warner rules, Rogers says, will effectively impose a ''hidden tax'' on those states -- and they're primarily the heartland states, where energy costs are already pinching industry and working-class families.
 What especially enrages him, though, is how the government wants to spend the cash it raises from the allowances. As Lieberman-Warner worked its way through the Senate environment committee, senators attached assorted riders: $800 billion over the life of the bill for tax refunds to help consumers pay for their higher electric bills, $1 billion for deficit reduction and billions more in handouts to state governments. In industry speeches, Rogers characterized the bill as a ''bastardization'' of cap-and-trade economics. (He later apologized.) In conversations with me, he expressed special disdain for Barbara Boxer, the California senator who shepherded the bill through the Senate environment committee.
 ''Politicians have visions of sugarplums dancing in their head with all the money they can get from auctions,'' Rogers told me last month. ''It's all about treating me as the tax collector and the government as the good guy. I'm the evil corporation that's passing through the carbon tax so Senator Boxer can be the Santa Claus!'' If the government was going to collect cash from carbon auctions, Rogers figured, at least it ought to invest that money in green-tech research. ''A billion dollars for deficit reduction,'' he vented. ''A billion dollars! What is [Boxer] smoking? I thought we were solving carbon here.''
 For all of Rogers's careful effort to position himself as a forward thinker -- and an advocate for the Midwestern coal states -- that did not gain him any slack. Congressional insiders who watched Rogers lobby the Senate committee say that regional politics actually worked against him. The Democratic deal makers who promised to deliver the votes for the bill were ''a left-center coalition'' of senators, most of whom come from urban and coastal states that do not rely heavily on coal. (Boxer, for example, hails from California, which gets only a small percentage of its energy from coal.) ''And a lot of people, Jim Rogers in particular, really didn't play in the negotiations,'' says a Congressional aide close to the Lieberman-Warner negotiations who did not have approval to talk to the press. ''The members on the Democratic side aren't particularly responsive to his concerns.''
 So by this spring, Rogers found himself in the curious position of fighting tooth-and-nail against a bill he spent years pushing for. It is entirely possible that Rogers is right, and that the auctioning of allowances will lead to economic shocks. Many economists worry about the price of allowances rising out of control. ''Clean'' technology might not emerge fast enough. Nuclear power could flounder. Desperate to move away from coal, utilities might switch to burning natural gas, driving up its price and thereby substantially inflating the cost of heating American homes.
 As Rogers went on the attack, critics countered that he sounded less like an environmental statesman and more like an old-school C.E.O. fighting for government pork, arguing baldly that what's best for Duke is what's best for the country -- that cap-and-trade will only work if it's set up in a way that best benefits Duke. John Rowe, the chief executive of Exelon -- the country's largest nuclear power company, which will profit handsomely by selling its allowances -- argues that it's only fair to hit Duke and others with higher costs. Customers in nuclear states have paid higher electric bills for years, because nuclear power is inherently more expensive to generate, Rowe points out. Duke could have switched to nuclear decades ago but didn't, so now it must pay the price.
 ''Duke's customers had a big cost advantage for a very long time,'' Rowe told me. ''And our feeling is you're not entitled to have that made virtually permanent.'' And he added, ''This is sausage making, but Lieberman-Warner makes a pretty good sausage.''
 The truth, perhaps inevitably, is that as carbon-cap laws become closer to reality, almost no one is happy. Coal-burning energy firms fear they'll be destroyed. Environmentalists worry that the energy lobby will gut the bills.
 This conflict was laid bare at Duke's annual shareholders' meeting in early May. Rogers started things off by devoting a full hour to his 40-year plan to decarbonize Duke. But when it was time for the question period, a dozen environmentalists lined up at the microphones and took up another hour lambasting Rogers for his new coal plant, now being built in Cliffside, N.C. If Rogers was really committed to breaking away from co2 emissions, why wasn't he pouring the money into renewables?
 ''Business as usual for even another decade will be disastrous,'' said Jim Warren, executive director of the North Carolina Waste Awareness and Reduction Network. A 25-year-old shareholder pleaded with Rogers to stop buying coal from mountaintop mines and foreswear nuclear energy. ''What you invest in today, my generation has to pay for in the future,'' she said. ''Please do not steal from your grandchildren and leave us with a mess to deal with.''
 But most of the shareholders, who numbered 250 or so, rolled their eyes as the environmentalists spoke; some openly heckled. ''I would just like to caution our company not to get on this global-warming bandwagon,'' one shareholder stood up to say. ''I've read a lot of scientists, and there's no agreement.'' Rogers remained unwaveringly polite to the opposition, though -- at several points shushing the hecklers, and thanking each speaker who laid into him.
 When I saw Rogers a few days after the event, he grimaced at the memory of it. He is annoyed by opposition to his new coal plant; he also seems genuinely puzzled that local environmentalists don't see the big picture as he does, that they don't trust his 40-year plan to slash Duke's carbon output. He maintains that the new plant will partly replace two older coal-fired ones, and because it is much more efficient, it will produce 30 percent less co2. ''Our overall carbon footprint is going to go down,'' he insisted. His frustration is the flip side of his desire to talk endlessly to critics of coal; he says he believes he can persuade anyone, which is probably why he seems so alarmed when he fails.
 Yet many local environmentalists no longer believe Rogers, and they have precisely the opposite view of how the future should unfold. They view the Lieberman-Warner bill not as too strong but as too weak. They point out, correctly, that Duke stands to reap tens of billions in free allowances, even under the existing bill, money that will subsidize the burning of coal. ''This bill gives huge windfall profits to a company that buys a lot of coal, like Duke,'' says Frank O'Donnell, the head of Clean Air Watch, an environmental group. ''I happen to think that it's immoral. In a sense, you're paying the polluter. You're rewarding the very companies that are the source of the problem.'' He says he doesn't believe that coal-dependent companies will move fast enough unless they feel the tighter pressure of even more aggressive carbon caps. Rogers is simply ''greenwashing'' his company, saying all the right things so he can wear the mantle of the revolutionary without having to make the hard sacrifices.
 Allegations like these perturb Rogers no end. Many protesters, he told me, are an ''eco elite'' who don't understand the need working-class people have for affordable energy. But then, in another breath, he admits he also understands why they view him askance.
 ''There's an interesting contradiction in my position,'' he said. ''I've struggled with it. On the one hand, I want to smooth out the transition for the customers, because we've got low prices. But on the other hand, and this is sort of the awkwardness of it, the other truth is as prices go up, people's behavior is modified.'' Change needs to come, but how fast?
 ''That's the art in this, and not the science.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE INVISIBLE HAND ON THE SCALES: In a cap-and-trade system, the government caps the amount of carbon dioxide that energy companies can emit. Then it distributes a new kind of currency -- carbon allowances -- that each firm must possess to be allowed to release their CO2. If Utility A figures out how to reduce its emissions faster than required -- by using cleaner fuels, say, or investing in meliorative technologies -- it can trade (sell) its unused allowances to Utility B. The cap is lowered regularly, and because market forces reward those that make the biggest cuts, the system should produce a race to see whose carbon footprint can shrink the fastest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER HAPAK
JOHN FOXX/GETTY IMAGES)
 DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY GEOFF MCFETRIDGE). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (88%); COAL INDUSTRY (87%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); COAL MINING (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%)

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



583 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: The Greed Beat

BYLINE: By MICHAEL HIRSH. 
Michael Hirsh is a senior editor at Newsweek and the author of ''At War With Ourselves: Why America Is Squandering Its Chance to Build a Better World.''

 BODY:
GOOD GUYS AND BAD GUYS 
 Behind the Scenes With the Saints and Scoundrels of American Business (and Everything in Between). 
 By Joe Nocera. 
 292 pp. Portfolio. $25.95. 
 As I finished Joe Nocera's ''Good Guys and Bad Guys'' -- a collection of his best business writing over the last quarter-century -- I found myself wishing he'd waited a year to publish it. Or maybe just six months. Because by then Nocera would certainly have trained his no-nonsense eye and deceptively simple writing style on the kind of scandal it seems he was born to chronicle: the subprime mortgage disaster. Peopled as it is with so many scoundrels and fools -- and even a few good guys -- the subprime story is precisely the sort of economic morality tale that Nocera has excelled at telling for so long, with himself cast as the stern schoolmaster. 
 No doubt Nocera, a business columnist for The New York Times, is gathering material for that account. In the meantime, one of the best things about this collection is that his tales of previous financial manias -- particularly the Dow's ''ga-ga'' climb of the 80s and the dot-com bubble of the 90s -- remind us that in so many ways, all boom-bust cycles are created equal. The lessons are always the same, and the fixes always fall short. ''It is not just you and me who lose our heads during a bubble,'' Nocera writes. ''So do the big boys. Bankers make crazy loans. Deal makers make insane deals. Analysts do indeed tout stocks they shouldn't (which doesn't mean you should have listened to them!). And rich guys working on Wall Street get greedy and cross lines they shouldn't cross.'' 
 Business writers, like painters, follow different schools and approaches. Nocera specializes in portraying the human drama behind the economic trends; he is the Hieronymus Bosch of the financial world, and Wall Street is his Garden of Earthly Delights, teeming with strange, sometimes horrifying and occasionally wonderful characters. As with Bosch, on Nocera's canvas it's the ''evil'' ones we are irresistibly drawn to, financial bad boys like the junk-bond financier Michael Milken and Henry Blodget, the disgraced Merrill Lynch analyst. Yet even as Nocera feeds our fascination for these characters, he often finds good things to say about them, and occasionally faults his colleagues in the press for simplistically dismissing them as criminals or confidence men. Interviewing Milken in prison, Nocera wonders whether he was truly at the center of ''the greatest criminal conspiracy the financial world has ever known,'' as James B. Stewart wrote in his best seller ''Den of Thieves.'' Milken was ''greedy beyond belief,'' Nocera writes, but that is not evidence of a crime or of a conspiracy. ''Hostile takeovers and junk-bond financings may have been morally dubious, but they weren't criminal. There's a big difference.'' 
 Nocera agrees that Blodget, a target of Eliot Spitzer when he was the New York attorney general, was justly banned for life from the securities industry for his absurdly overheated touting of Internet stocks (even as private e-mail messages revealed he was disparaging the same companies). But Blodget's true sin was incompetence, Nocera suggests. Blodget knew he was contributing to a bubble, but he saw himself as part of the phenomenon without understanding what his job as a stock analyst really was. ''I think it's time to give the guy a break,'' Nocera writes. ''He fell into Wall Street without training or background, and he never belonged there. He was a creature of an environment -- and an era -- that he never really understood. He was the Internet era's Chauncey Gardiner.'' 
 Similarly, Jeffrey Skilling, the now imprisoned former chief executive of Enron, is merely a pathetic figure in the end: ''How in the world could anyone have thought that Mr. Skilling had the skills and the emotional makeup to run a publicly traded corporation?'' Nocera asks. T. Boone Pickens, the notorious corporate raider of the '80s, is also self-aggrandizing and insatiably greedy; but Nocera shows the man in full, mellow and contemplative in retirement, trying to repair his unhappy relations with his children. Nocera concludes that on the whole Pickens's influence was ''profound,'' making American businesses more competitive: ''Boone, it turns out, was right about executives being glorified bureaucrats, and companies being bloated and uncompetitive.'' 
 Nocera harshly appraises some of the more lionized figures of our time, including Steve Jobs, who is seen as vindictive and, like Apple, ''astonishingly arrogant.'' (He has nothing bad to say, on the other hand, about ''St. Warren of Omaha'' -- Warren Buffett -- but then who does?) 
 Some of these pieces, it is true, feel more than a little musty, particularly the two long features about Pickens, with whom Nocera developed a close but troubled relationship and with whom he begins and ends the book. Yes, Pickens was a pioneer, but the swashbuckling predators of the leveraged-buyout era have long since evolved into staid private equity funds. The takeover battles that once seemed so exciting -- like Pickens's bid for Cities Service in 1982 -- today seem like ancient history. In 2002, Nocera finds that Pickens has tried to start an equity fund, but ''discovered that a lot of 30- and 40-year-old institutional investors barely knew who he was -- and were telling him his fund would have to prove itself like any other new fund.'' Humbled, Pickens concedes he had ''unrealistic expectations'' and more or less rides off into the sunset with his old sidekick Robert Stillwell, as Nocera gamely records it all. In one of our last glimpses of the threesome, they are nodding off on Pickens's private jet. ''In the old days,'' Nocera writes, ''Boone would have talked my ear off all the way to Dallas, and I would have peppered him with questions.'' But ''by the time we were over Missouri, the three of us were fast asleep.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY JOON MO KANG (CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: JEFFREY SKILLING, T. BOONE PICKENS, WARREN BUFFETT AND MICHAEL MILKEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BONDS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TRENDS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); CONSPIRACY (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (74%); WARREN BUFFETT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Good Guys and Bad Guys (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



584 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: International Touch Lines

BYLINE: By IAN KLAUS. 
Ian Klaus is the author of ''Elvis Is Titanic: Classroom Tales From the Other Iraq.''

 BODY:
A few years ago I spent a semester teaching American history and English in Erbil, the capital of the Kurdistan region of Iraq. The campus of the university where I taught has both a basketball court and a soccer field. The court was always empty, but the dirt field, with lines barely visible and netless goals, was frequently filled with players in mismatched jerseys and winter jackets who lacked for nothing in confidence or joy. Soccer is a sport I've enjoyed all my life, and the many invitations I received to play on that field made me feel welcome, not only at the university but in that part of the world. So last summer, when I returned to the region, I suspected it wouldn't be long before the games began again.
 I was visiting with Kurdish friends, and the family with whom I was staying took me along on a trip to Tawela, a small village on the Iranian border. A local who fought against Saddam Hussein in the 1970s and 1980s was organizing a reunion for fellow veterans, my host among them. Before the celebratory dinner, some of us took a walk. As the sun set behind us, we approached a heated soccer game in progress. Teams from Tawela and Biara, two small villages tucked away in the mountainous crevices of this, the Hawraman region, were at play. 
 Members of the Tawelan home team wore blue-striped Inter Milan jerseys. Local fans in baggy-traditional Kurdish pants and knockoff jerseys lined one side of the field. A stone wall on the other side of the pitch served as both the international boundary between Iraq and Iran and as a grandstand for spectators. Linesmen in black trousers and white button-down dress shirts waved red handkerchiefs for offside. Familiar as the players were with one another, the game had a formal intensity about it. Each team was playing for village pride. At the game's conclusion, the Tawelan team crammed in the back of a truck and drove away, dust covering their jerseys. 
 Then a pickup game started, and I joined in. I could feel the onlookers wondering what soccer skills an American might possess. Within minutes, I shanked a ball, and it landed in Iran. Sailing above the goalie in his Arsenal jersey, over the rusted crossbar, and clearing the collapsing stone wall delineating the international boundary, the ball settled near the feet of a meandering donkey. A young boy quickly hopped over the stones and brought it back. 
 As the play continued, I crossed balls to little children who headed them past an aggressive goalkeeper. Young boys in plastic sandals passed to older men in the worn cloth clogs famous to this region. I put one ball into the goal, and another back into Iran. Here we were -- in a village where the dead insurgency leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was said to have slept, in a country ravaged by wars of identity -- playing the world's game, reckless amateurs representing only our teammates and ourselves.
 When the game was over, I decided to walk up to the official border crossing in the region, about three miles away. Barbed wire lined two imposing walls that met at a gate painted red, white and green, maybe twice the height of a goal. There were no Iraqi guards at the crossing. Two Iranian flags waved from the gate. When I acknowledged the Iranian soldiers, they waved back. But when I took out my camera, they hollered, training their weapons on me. On the white exterior of a bunker, in lively colors, someone had painted in Persian: ''Death to America.'' 
 The next morning we headed to Sulaimaniya, a center of intellectual life in Iraqi Kurdistan, as well as a city with economic and cultural ties to Iran. Those residents who weren't stuck in gas lines were already heading toward the mountains for Friday picnic, a day with family. For me, it appeared, another night of soccer lay ahead. At 9 o'clock, the temperature having dropped to the low 90s, I ended up in a game of five on five. We played on dusty Astroturf under floodlights until, one by one, the heat ran us all into the ground. 
 After the game, we sat talking in the corner of the field, enjoying cigarettes and cans of fruit juice. ''Did you hear?'' one of my opponents asked at a certain point. ''America has suffered a great defeat. You have gone down.'' He wore a slight grin and seemed, for a second, to appreciate my alarm. In this, a country at war, I didn't ask after the ambiguous statement. I felt that nostalgic, guttural ache that is the longing for home. His grin grew bigger and his eyes softened -- the U.S., he informed me, had lost to Argentina, 4 to 1. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HOLLY WALES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); ATHLETES (89%); HISTORY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); CHILDREN (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); WALES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



585 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: South Korean Government Negotiates Resumption of Limited Imports of U.S. Beef

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
More than 10,000 people rallied in central Seoul on Saturday night to protest beef imports from the United States, despite an announcement hours earlier that Seoul and Washington had agreed to restrict the shipments to allay South Koreans' concerns about mad cow disease.
 Although the protest was smaller than a June 10 rally that drew at least 100,000 people, it indicated that President Lee Myung-bak had a long way to go before regaining public confidence. 
 American trade envoys agreed to restrict beef exports to cattle less than 30 months old, officials said earlier in the day. Younger cattle are considered to pose less risk of mad cow disease, a fatal brain illness that is sometimes transmitted to humans. 
 Until Seoul banned imports in 2003 after a case of mad cow disease was detected in the United States, South Korea was the third largest overseas market for American beef, with imports totaling $800 million a year. 
 President Lee, who took office less than four months ago, faced a political crisis set off by a public furor over a deal he struck with the United States in April. 
 The April agreement would have allowed American exporters to ship beef from all cattle. But fears that the meat might be infected, as well as grievances over other policies initiated by Mr. Lee, set off weeks of demonstrations, leading the government to ask the United States this month to revise the deal.
 South Korea also won the right in the latest accord to inspect a sampling of American slaughterhouses, the trade minister, Kim Jong-hoon, said in a nationally televised news conference announcing the results of his week of talks in Washington with Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative. 
 ''We really did our best,'' Agriculture Minister Chung Woon-chun said in the news conference. ''We did everything we could during the negotiation, including brinkmanship.''
 Mr. Kim said he had taken a large aerial photograph of the June 10 demonstration with him to Washington. ''When the American side rejected our demands, citing 'science,' I produced the picture and told them, 'Look at this. Can we resolve this with science?' '' he said. 
 Under the revised deal, American beef from cattle 30 months and older will be barred from South Korea ''until consumers' confidence improves,'' Mr. Kim said. The American government will also provide an age certification for all meat shipped to South Korea.
 Weeks of antigovernment protests had climaxed with the June 10 rally, which represented the largest outpouring of antigovernment sentiment since the end of military rule in the late 1980s, and virtually paralyzed Mr. Lee's government. The entire cabinet offered to resign. Mr. Lee replaced 9 of his 10 senior presidential aides on Friday, apologized for the beef deal and pledged a fresh start to regain public trust in his government.
 The size of the protests has decreased markedly since June 10. But organizers of the protests have remained unsatisfied, demanding a complete renegotiation to win better assurances to prevent mad cow disease. They also pushed for Mr. Lee to drop many of his pro-business domestic economic reforms.
 ''Lee Myung-bak Out! We want renegotiation!'' the protesters chanted Saturday night. They said the revised deal was a government trick to quell the public anger without solving the problem.
 In Washington, Ms. Schwab's office confirmed the new deal. It characterized the new agreement as a ''transitional measure to improve Korean consumer confidence in U.S. beef.''
 ''We look forward to safe, affordable, high-quality American beef -- the same beef enjoyed by hundreds of millions of U.S. consumers and people in countries around the world -- soon arriving on Korean tables,'' Ms. Schwab said. 
 The United States also agreed not to export cattle parts like brains, eyes, skulls and spinal cords, which many Koreans fear may carry mad cow disease. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Seoul late Saturday demanded a full renegotiation on imports of United States beef.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JO YONG-HAK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (92%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (92%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); MEATS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



586 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By JASON CAMPBELL, MICHAEL O'HANLON and AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Jason Campbell is a research analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
IRAQ remains a violent country plagued by high unemployment, raw wounds from sectarian conflict, extremist militias aided by Iran, more than four million people still displaced by violence, and very limited government capacity to meet the country's core needs. There has, however, been major progress this spring on two fronts. Together they give reason for hope that the major improvement in security resulting from the surge of American forces may endure even as the surge itself ends this July. 
 First, the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki showed real backbone by undertaking major military operations that ultimately reclaimed Iraq's chief southern city of Basra, the Baghdad neighborhood of Sadr City, and much of the northern city of Mosul. Iraq's government now controls almost all of the country for the first time since the overthrow of Saddam Hussein.
 Second, in these recent battles the Iraqi security forces performed far better than previously. While American (and British) combat support and advisory teams remain critical, Iraqis are doing much of the fighting now. Although some units performed badly, as with the Iraqi Army's inexperienced 52nd Brigade in the Basra operation, the reasons have been identified and addressed. The Pentagon now rates about 55 percent of the Iraqi security forces as ''good'' or ''very good'' -- and for the first time, such American metrics seem accurate.
 On the whole, we feel that the Iraqi government is about halfway to meeting the 11 ''Iraq index'' benchmarks we have laid out, which include steps like establishing provincial election laws, reaching an oil-revenue sharing accord and enacting pension and amnesty laws. (Our system allows a score of 0, 0.5, or 1 for each category, and is dynamic, meaning we can subtract points for backsliding.) 
 It would be too much to talk of imminent victory in Iraq. But we may at least be able to avert strategic defeat with a careful plan for gradual handoff of more responsibility to the Iraqi government over the coming years.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ARMIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTION LAW (63%); AMNESTY (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



587 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: With Friends Like Angelo . . .

 BODY:
Time and again, the Senate is bedeviled by its own clubbiness, its lost sensitivity to how ordinary people live their lives. So it is with Christopher Dodd and Kent Conrad, who turned up on the ''Friends of Angelo'' V.I.P. list at Countrywide Financial Corporation. 
 Countrywide, a home-loan powerhouse, figures prominently in the subprime mortgage crisis, which has put hundreds of thousands of Americans at risk of losing their homes. The revelations about Mr. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, and Mr. Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, are particularly troubling since the two senators are principals in trying to pass emergency legislation to address the damage from the mortgage crisis. 
 The V.I.P. list is maintained by Angelo Mozilo, Countrywide's chief executive, much the way canny restaurateurs reserve special tables to indulge lawmakers. The list became radioactive when James Johnson, who apparently benefited from favorable mortgage terms from Countrywide, had to quit as the vetter of vice presidential candidates for Senator Barack Obama -- a prime critic of Countrywide's dealings. 
 Mr. Conrad says he was not aware that a simple telephone introduction to Mr. Mozilo had led to cut-rate treatment. After the details surfaced, he quickly donated his $10,700 windfall to charity. Mr. Dodd says he was aware of his V.I.P. status when he sought two loans from Countrywide but thought it was a mere courtesy. Portfolio.com reported that he received reduced interest rates that could save him tens of thousands of dollars. Mr. Dodd says he did not benefit financially.
 The Senate ethics committee has opened an investigation to see whether gift rules have been violated. The trouble is, that throws the matter back to the clubby world of the Senate. Given its track record, it is hard to believe the committee will find that Mr. Dodd and Mr. Conrad acted improperly. 
 It's not even clear that the Senate these days is in touch enough to understand how terrible this home-loan back-scratching looks. Senator Conrad said that of 10 or so mortgages he obtained over the years, ''in every one of those instances I talked with the No. 1 or No. 2 person'' at the lender. Just like the rest of us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ETHICS (69%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (90%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); ANGELO R MOZILO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008



588 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: India's Growth Outstrips Crops

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: JALANDHAR, India 

 BODY:
With the right technology and policies, India could help feed the world. Instead, it can barely feed itself. 
 India's supply of arable land is second only to that of the United States, its economy is one of the fastest growing in the world, and its industrial innovation is legendary. But when it comes to agriculture, its output lags far behind potential. For some staples, India must turn to already stretched international markets, exacerbating a global food crisis.
 It was not supposed to be this way.
 Forty years ago, a giant development effort known as the Green Revolution drove hunger from an India synonymous with famine and want. Now, after a decade of neglect, this country is growing faster than its ability to produce more rice and wheat. 
 The problem has grown so dire that Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has called for a Second Green Revolution ''so that the specter of food shortages is banished from the horizon once again.'' 
 And while Mr. Singh worries about feeding the poor, India's growing affluent population demands not only more food but also a greater variety.
 Today Indian agriculture is a double tragedy. ''Both in rice and wheat, India has a large untapped reservoir. It can make a major contribution to the world food crisis,'' said M. S. Swaminathan, a plant geneticist who helped bring the Green Revolution to India. 
 India's own people are paying as well. Farmers, most subsisting on small, rain-fed plots, are disproportionately poor, and inflation has soared past 11 percent, the highest in 13 years.
 Experts blame the agriculture slowdown on a variety of factors. 
 The Green Revolution introduced high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat, expanded the use of irrigation, pesticides and fertilizers, and transformed the northwestern plains into India's breadbasket. Between 1968 and 1998, the production of cereals in India more than doubled. 
 But since the 1980s, the government has not expanded irrigation and access to loans for farmers, or to advance agricultural research. Groundwater has been depleted at alarming rates. 
 The Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington says changes in temperature and rain patterns could diminish India's agricultural output by 30 percent by the 2080s. 
 Family farms have shrunk in size and quantity, and a few years ago mounting debt began to drive some farmers to suicide. Now many find it more profitable to sell their land to developers of industrial buildings. 
 Among farmers who stay on their land, many are experimenting with growing high-value fruits and vegetables that prosperous Indians are craving, but there are few refrigerated trucks to transport their produce to modern supermarkets.
 A long and inefficient supply chain means that the average farmer receives less than a fifth of the price the consumer pays, a World Bank study found, far less than farmers in, say, Thailand or the United States. 
 Surinder Singh Chawla knows the system is broken. Mr. Chawla, 62, bore witness to the Green Revolution -- and its demise. 
 Once, his family grew wheat and potatoes on 20 acres. They looked to the sky for rains. They used cow manure for fertilizer. Then came the Mexican semi-dwarf wheat seedlings that the revolution helped introduce to India. Mr. Chawla's wheat yields soared. A few years later, the same happened with new high-yield rice seeds.
 Increasingly prosperous, Mr. Chawla finally bought his first tractor in 1980. 
 But he has since witnessed with horror the ills the revolution wrought: in a common occurrence here, the water table under his land has sunk by 100 feet over three decades as he and other farmers irrigated their fields. 
 By the 1980s, government investment in canals fed by rivers had tapered off, and wells became the principal source of irrigation, helped by a shortsighted government policy of free electricity to pump water. 
 Here in Punjab, more than three-fourths of the districts extract more groundwater than is replenished by nature. 
 Between 1980 and 2002, the government continued to heavily subsidize fertilizers and food grains for the poor, but reduced its total investment in agriculture. Public spending on farming shrank by roughly a third, according to an analysis of government data by the Center for Policy Alternatives in New Delhi. 
 Today only 40 percent of Indian farms are irrigated. ''When there is no water, there is nothing,'' Mr. Chawla said.
 And he sees more trouble on the way. The summers are hotter than he remembers. The rains are more fickle. Last summer, he wanted to ease out of growing rice, a water-intensive crop. 
 The gains of the Green Revolution have begun to ebb in other countries, too, like Indonesia and the Philippines, agriculture experts say. But the implications in India are greater because of its sheer size.
 India raised a red flag two years ago about how heavily the appetites of its 1.1 billion people would weigh on world food prices. For the first time in many years, India had to import wheat for its grain stockpile. In two years it bought about 7 million tons. 
 Today, two staples of the Indian diet are imported in ever-increasing quantities because farmers cannot keep up with growing demand -- pulses, like lentils and peas, and vegetable oils, the main sources of protein and calories, respectively, for most Indians. 
 ''India could be a big actor in supplying food to the rest of the world if the existing agricultural productivity gap could be closed,'' said Adolfo Brizzi, manager of the South Asia agriculture program at the World Bank in Washington. ''When it goes to the market to import, it typically puts pressure on international market prices, and every time India goes for export, it increases the supply and therefore mitigates the price levels.'' 
 In April, in a village called Udhopur, not far from here, Harmail Singh, 60, wondered aloud how farmers could possibly be expected to grow more grain.
 ''The cultivable land is shrinking and government policies are not farmer friendly,'' he said as he supervised his wheat harvest. ''Our next generation is not willing to work in agriculture. They say it is a losing proposition.'' 
 The luckiest farmers make more money selling out to land-hungry mall developers. 
 Gurmeet Singh Bassi, 33, blessed with a farm on the edges of a booming Punjabi city called Ludhiana, sold off most of his ancestral land. Its value had grown more than fivefold in two years. He made enough to buy land in a more remote part of the state and hire laborers to till it. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Chawla's neighbors migrated to North America. They were happy to lease their land to him, if he was foolish enough to stay and work it, he said. Today, he cultivates more than 100 acres. 
 Last year, on a small patch of that land, he planted what no one in his village could imagine putting on their plate: baby corn, which he learned was being lapped up by upscale urban Indian restaurants and even sold abroad. 
 At the time, baby corn brought a better profit than the government's price for his wheat crop. 
 This had been the Green Revolution's other pillar -- a fixed government price for grain. A farmer could sell his crop to a private trader, but for many small tillers, it was far easier to approach the nearest government granary, and accept their rate. 
 For years, those prices remained miserably low, farmers and their advocates complained, and there was little incentive for farmers to invest in their crop. ''For farmers,'' said Mr. Swaminathan, the plant geneticist, ''a remunerative price is the best fertilizer.''
 Mr. Swaminathan's adage proved true this year. After two years of having to import wheat, the government offered farmers a substantially higher price for their grain: farmers not only planted slightly more wheat but also sold much more of their harvest to the state. As a result, by May, the country's buffer stocks were at record levels. 
 Nanda Kumar, India's most senior bureaucrat for food, said the country would not need to buy wheat on the world market this year. That is good news, for India and the world, but how long it will remain the case is unclear. 
 Will greater demand for food and higher market prices enrich farmers, eventually, encouraging them to stay on their land? There is potential, but other conditions, like India's inefficient transportation and supply chains, would have to improve too.
 How to address these challenges is a matter of debate. 
 From one quarter comes pressure to introduce genetically modified crops with greater yields; from another come lawsuits to stop it. And from yet another come pleas to mount a greener Green Revolution.
 Alexander Evans, author of a recent paper on food prices published by Chatham House, a British research institution, said: ''This time around, it needs to be more efficient in its use of water, in its use of energy, in its use of fertilizer and land.''
 Mr. Swaminathan wants to dedicate villages to sowing lentils and oilseeds, to meet demand. The World Bank, meanwhile, favors high-value crops, like Mr. Chawla's baby corn, because they allow farmers to maximize their income from small holdings. 
 The market may yet help India. Mr. Chawla, for instance, has replaced baby corn with sunflowers, prompted by the high price of sunflower oil. For the same reason, he is also considering planting more wheat. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Migrant workers thresh wheat in the Indian state of Punjab. The government raised the regulated price for wheat to reduce imports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Wheat is harvested in Punjab, where water has become a top concern. The water table under land owned by Surinder Singh Chawla, top right, has fallen 100 feet over 30 years of irrigation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) CHART: PROGRESS IN FARMING IS LEVELING OFF: India made steady gains in farming during and after the Green Revolution a global development effort led by scientists and American foundations in the '60s and '70s. But in recent years, that progress has been slowing, creating domestic shortages and exacerbating the global food crisis. (Source: U.S.D.A. Foreign Agricultural Service) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IRRIGATION (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (76%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (76%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (76%); AGRONOMY (76%); FAMINE (76%); CROP RESEARCH (74%); PESTICIDES (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); FERTILIZERS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); SUICIDE (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUNJAB, INDIA (88%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008



589 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Will Hoosiers See Blue?

BYLINE: By PORTER SHREVE. 
Porter Shreve is the author of the forthcoming novel ''When the White House Was Ours.''

DATELINE: West Lafayette, Ind. 

 BODY:
 SIX and a half weeks have passed since Lake County turned in its votes and Tim Russert proclaimed: ''We now know who the Democratic nominee will be.'' Pundits have studied the exit polls trying to decipher why Senator Hillary Clinton won the primary here by a mere 2 percent. Some questions can't be answered: What were the roles of race and gender? Did Rush Limbaugh's ''Operation Chaos'' swing the primary? 
 Two-thirds of Indiana voters said the biggest issue was the economy. In this state, where American flags fly on every block and the most popular politicians have made their reputations in foreign policy and national security, it's surprising that only 20 percent of voters called Iraq their top concern. But more than 3,100 Hoosiers lost their jobs in April. A retired railroad worker I talked to from Southern Indiana said he used to be a Republican and a member of the National Rifle Association, but after eight years of George W. Bush he could no longer afford a hunting rifle. He backed Mr. Obama.
 It seems he's not the only ''Obamican'' I've met. A dairy farmer from north-central Indiana, told me before the primary: ''I live in a very Republican county. I wonder, if more Democratic ballots are taken than Republican on Tuesday, will the dome fall off the courthouse?'' 
 Well, the dome still stands in Fulton County, but Democratic ballots there outnumbered Republican by nearly three to one. Statewide, nearly 1.3 million Democrats voted in the primary -- more voters than supported George W. Bush in 2000. 
 As an impoverished graduate student I used to think up gimmicky business schemes, like selling deeds to an inch of land in all 50 states, something akin to buying a star for your sweetheart. So I was struck last week when the Obama campaign announced its embrace of an equally improbable ''50-state strategy.'' Places like Colorado, Georgia, Iowa, Missouri, New Mexico, Virginia and even Indiana could become new battlegrounds. 
 The dairy farmer who worried about his courthouse roof might be right that the state isn't likely to go blue for the first time in 44 years, but even so, Mr. Obama's willingness to commit some of his war chest to operations here would help candidates from the top to the bottom of the Democratic ticket. Perhaps that 50-state idea isn't a gimmick, after all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); TIM RUSSERT (73%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



590 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 22, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 SEOUL TO ACCEPT 
 U.S. Beef, With Limits
 More than 10,000 people rallied in Seoul to protest beef imports from the United States, despite an announcement hours earlier that Seoul and Washington had agreed to restrict the shipments to allay South Koreans' concerns about mad cow disease. Prior to banning such imports in 2003, the country was the third largest overseas market for U.S. beef. PAGE 8
 INTERNATIONAL
 A STAREDOWN IN TURKEY 
 A 160-page indictment of Turkey's governing party has left the country's politics paralyzed for months. The indictment accuses the party of trying to turn Turkey, a secular democracy, into an Islamic state. The governing party has come close to breaking the grip of the secular establishment on power. Many see the case as the last stand by Turkey's secular old guard. PAGE 6
 COSTS OF AIRLINE BOOM
 Business is booming for low-cost airlines who fly to Spanish destinations like Murcia -- a trip from British cities is often less than the cost of a train ticket. But the European Environment Agency says the competitive market is also pumping a huge amount of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. PAGE 6
 NATIONAL
 HEALTH CARDS CALLED
 Risk for ID Theft
 Officials at the Social Security Administration are concerned about the risk of identity theft, and are calling for immediate action to remove Social Security numbers from the Medicare cards used by millions of Americans. But Medicare officials have resisted the proposal, saying it would be costly and impractical. PAGE 15
 SAME ONLY ON SURFACE
 Both Senator John McCain and Bob Dole are war heroes known for their hurricane tempers and biting wit, and both were among the oldest men to seek the presidency. And while Democrats hope that Mr. McCain's presidential bid echoes Mr. Dole's 1996 campaign, the surface similarities between the two Republicans can be misleading. PAGE 19
 METRO 
 STATE SEVERANCE DEALS
 That Required Silence
 At least 19 employees who have resigned in recent years from the New York Power Authority were required to keep secret the circumstances of their departures in order to obtain severance pay or benefits. At least some of the employees clashed with Daniel Wiese, who was inspector general of the authority until last month and is being investigated by the state attorney general's office. PAGE 23
 Sports 
 WEARING HIS EMOTIONS
 On His Jacket Sleeve
 The Chicago White Sox have instituted a few safeguards for their voluble manager, Ozzie Guillen. The team chaperones interviews with Mr. Guillen, who is known for his emotional outbursts, his candor with reporters and the expletives with which he decorates it. For their part, the players often come to the ballpark bearing incense, which Mr. Guillen swears has a calming effect. PAGE 2 
 WHO GETS THE BLAME?
 Willie Randolph, a son of Brooklyn who played professional ball in the Bronx, inherited the gruff DNA of the Yankees, but it didn't carry over with him when he took over the Mets. As the losses mounted, he was booed more than the listless players who took the field and played poorly. ''Was that Randolph's responsibility?'' George Vecsey asks. ''Ultimately, in the unfair ledger book of managing, yes, it was.'' PAGE 3
 Obituaries
 HENRY CHADWICK, 87
 As part of the denominational reconciliation between Anglicanism and Roman Catholicism -- he once called ecumenism ''a good cause to die for'' -- he put forward principles his research had shown had been shared by most early Christians. The Anglican priest, professor, editor, translator and author was knighted in 1989. PAGE 28
 SUNDAY STYLES
 THE CONTINUING SAGA
 Of the Pregnant Transman
 Thomas Beatie, as anyone who has turned on a television or picked up a tabloid in the last few months is aware, is a married 34-year-old man, born a woman, who impregnated himself using frozen sperm. Partly a carnival sideshow and partly a glimpse at shifting sexual tectonics, his story exposed a realm that seemed more than passing strange to some. PAGE 1 
 IT'S NOT ABOUT THE BIKE
 Lance Armstrong, the cycle champion and anticancer campaigner, was in New York last week, promoting a new Web venture, livestrong.com, devoted to healthy living. Also in town was the other Lance Armstrong, the tabloid darling and ''notorious Texas playboy.'' The question arises: Which Lance is Mr. Armstrong best known for? PAGE 1 
 8TH-GRADE GRADUATIONS
 Across the country, eighth-grade celebrations now mimic high school or even college graduations: proms, limousines, dignitaries speechifying and students in caps and gowns loping across the stage for diplomas. Does the pomp fit the circumstance? PAGE 1 
 Night Out: Abigail Breslin 4 
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 THE BOOM
 In Human Billboards
 Nicole Kidman sashays in ads for Chanel No. 5 perfume. Eva Longoria, the ''Desperate Housewives'' star, recommends L'Oreal Paris hair color. It's nearly impossible to surf the Internet, open a newspaper or magazine, or watch television without seeing a celebrity selling something. Where the star ends and the product and pitch begin is becoming less and less discernible. PAGE 1 
 PAYDAY FOR PAY ADVICE
 The credit crisis, rising oil prices and the economy may dominate headlines, but excessive executive pay still makes shareholders boil. How might runaway pay be reined in? Attacking potential conflicts of interest among compensation consultants who design the lucrative packages. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1 
 Travel
 IN BASILICAS UNKNOWN, GOYA ILLUMINATES MADRID
 While the paintings of Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes can be found in private and public collections throughout the world, most of them still reside in the Prado museum. But the best frame for his work may be the city itself. A visitor can discover some of Madrid's hidden gems by seeking out Goyas elsewhere in the city. Page 3 
 SPORTS IN THE MELTING POT
 In New York City, food from hundreds of countries can be had, and five different languages heard in as many minutes. But sports, too, have crossed oceans. Gaelic football, the rough-and-tumble offspring of rugby and soccer, can be seen in the Bronx. Handball from Europe is played, barehanded and with gloves, in Greenwich Village. For Bengali cricket, head to Queens. Page 5
 SUNDAY MAGAZINE
 SMOKE. DRINK. WRITE. WOMANIZE. REPEAT.
 ''Mad Men,'' about the world of advertising on Madison Avenue in New York in the early 1960s, languished for years after being rejected by HBO and Showtime. But after AMC picked it up, the show won instant critical acclaim. How its creator, Matthew Weiner, turned early-'60s advertising culture into the smartest show on television. PAGE 32 
 SEA OF TRASH
 The world's oceans are filling up with bottles, wrappers and other flotsam. Is there anything better to be done than picking it up off the beach, one piece at a time? PAGE 40 
 Questions for Charlie Crist 11 
 Week in Review
 ISRAEL'S SEASON OF DREAD
 One might have expected the start of a cease-fire with Hamas to be hailed in Israel as good news. Yet what was the front page headline in Maariv newspaper? ''Fury and Fear.'' It says a great deal about the mood in Israel, where many consider the truce with Hamas an admission of national failure. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 IRAQ OIL RUSH
 Deals that would bring major Western oil companies back to Iraq could rekindle understandable suspicions in the Arab world that oil was America's real reason for invading. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 A VICTORY FOR WOMEN
 An urgent need exists for consistent, humane policies that treat women's rights as fundamental human rights. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, the wife of President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, is a charmer of the country's people and a former model -- but not necessarily the best model for Michelle Obama or Cindy McCain. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Two years ago, President Bush declared that America was ''addicted to oil.'' Now we have the new Bush energy plan: ''Get more addicted to oil.'' WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The West Bank city of Hebron has 160,000 Palestinians and 800 Jewish settlers. To protect the settlement -- illegal in the eyes of many -- Israel has set up guard posts, checkpoints and road closures. The financial cost is mind-boggling, but the diplomatic toll is greater. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 12 
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Some supporters of Hillary Rodham Clinton think that sexism colored news coverage of her presidential campaign. The Times reported in a front-page article on June 13 that many supporters are proposing boycotts of cable news networks because they perceive biased coverage. The article barely mentioned The Times's own coverage. How did it do? WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MEATS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); AIRLINES (73%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (73%); MEDICARE (73%); BASEBALL (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); IDENTITY THEFT (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); RELIGION (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); SEVERANCE PAY (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (52%); GREENHOUSE GASES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (55%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



591 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Two Republican Contenders Whose Similarities Are Mostly Skin Deep

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
They are war heroes with the injuries to show for it. They are known for hurricane tempers and caustic wit. They are among the oldest men to seek the presidency. 
 And Democrats are hoping that the 1996 candidacy of Bob Dole will be a template for what will happen to Senator John McCain in his run for the White House this year.
 But for all the obvious similarities, there are also sufficient differences between the two Republicans to make surface comparisons somewhat misleading. 
 Mr. Dole was not just a creature of the Senate but the very face of the Washington legislative establishment. Mr. McCain has promoted an image as a renegade in the body, scolding it, for example, for its pork barrel spending. 
 Mr. McCain is, to a considerable degree, sprinting away from his own party and looking to distance himself from an unpopular incumbent president. Mr. Dole resisted running against an institution that he cherished, and that made it easier for Democrats to tie him to what they portrayed as the Republican Party's excesses during the period when the House speaker, Newt Gingrich, and the ascendant conservative wing of the party were seeking to reshape domestic policy.
 Mr. Dole, as a candidate, reined in his humor and kept a protective wall around him, avoiding freewheeling sessions with voters or reporters, in deference to the urging of his campaign advisers. Mr. McCain's campaign is a rolling caravan of town hall meetings, news conferences, wisecracks and the very kinds of unscripted events that made Mr. Dole's advisers sweat.
 Not incidentally, Mr. McCain campaigned frequently at Mr. Dole's side during the summer of 1996, and took note of Mr. Dole's missteps -- from his failure to raise money as soon as he won the nomination to fight off a Democratic onslaught, and particularly the way he dealt stylistically with voters and reporters. Mr. McCain's considerable rank of advisers this year do not include any of the top names from the Dole campaign of 1996.
 ''He watched that and realized it was a mistake,'' said Mark Salter, a senior adviser to and longtime friend of Mr. McCain. ''You have got to get out there and be accessible to the voters and the press.''
 Mr. Dole, wounded in World War II, wore a bracelet with Mr. McCain's name on it when Mr. McCain was in a prisoner of war camp in Hanoi. And he recently wrote a letter defending Mr. McCain's conservative credentials (although Mr. Dole, like Mr. McCain, always had trouble persuading conservatives that he really was one of them).
 Yet the two are not particularly close, and Mr. McCain does not turn to Mr. Dole for advice about how to run his campaign, aides said. Mr. Dole is not exactly a regular on Mr. McCain's bus.
 Democrats look to the Dole campaign -- and the echoes in style and personality between the senator from Kansas and the senator from Arizona -- in speaking optimistically about the campaign ahead. ''The parallels are striking,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has served in Congress with both men. ''And the results will be the same.''
 The comparisons are not without merit. Mr. Dole and Mr. McCain have both been associated with presidential campaigns that grappled with spasms of infighting and management problems. Both have been familiar fixtures on that symbol of the Washington Beltway, the Sunday morning talk shows. Although separated in age by 13 years -- Mr. Dole is 84 and Mr. McCain is 71 -- both were born well before the coming of the baby boomers, making them members of ''a much different generation than Barack Obama,'' said Tony Fabrizio, who was Mr. Dole's pollster. ''Their values, their principles, how they comport themselves is totally different than Barack Obama.''
 Each has displayed impatience with the demands of the modern campaign -- whether sticking to a steady message, resisting the temptation for the impulsive attack or joke, or reading a speech off a teleprompter. ''They are almost workmanlike in delivering their message,'' Mr. Fabrizio said. ''You wouldn't describe them as colorful campaigners. And you wouldn't describe them as having the capacity to make people swoon.''
 Mr. Dole could be funny, although his jokes had a bit of stiletto in them; indeed, friends of both suggested that their humor was as much an asset as a potential liability. ''Dole was a master of political humor,'' said former Senator Alan Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. ''McCain has a very wry sense of humor. Sometimes it's the kind of humor that drifts over the heads of people who have no sense of humor.''
 The fact that both men suffered injuries in war that have shadowed them for life has created similar sensibilities for them. ''They both had to go through extensive rehabilitation,'' said Bob Kerrey, the former senator from Nebraska, who lost part of a leg in Vietnam. ''Having gone through something like that myself, I know that gives you a different perspective. I think it gives you sympathy with other people who are suffering,'' said Mr. Kerrey, a Democrat. ''Particularly with Dole.''
 ''He was a bona fide liberal when it came to'' the Americans With Disabilities Act, he added.
 But will Mr. Obama be able to campaign against Mr. McCain as a static symbol of Washington, the way President Bill Clinton did easily with Mr. Dole? 
 ''You cannot nail McCain as a creature of Washington because he has been such a maverick on campaign finance and other issues,'' said Scott Reed, who was Mr. Dole's campaign manager. ''He'll be able to slip that.''
 Mr. Dole was the ultimate party man in the Senate: he behaved and talked like a senator even after he left, and many times, having been the majority leader, he was identified with the entire Republican agenda that he helped push through, in contrast with Mr. McCain. 
 Mr. McCain not only does not sound like a senator, at least when he does not want to, but he also does not have to account for everything the Senate does.
 For all that, the most significant difference between Mr. Dole and Mr. McCain may be less the candidates themselves than the environments they confront in seeking the White House. ''Dole was running against an incumbent during a time of peace and a growing economy,'' Mr. Reed said. ''McCain is running against a popular new phenomenon with the Republican Party brand hung around his neck.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bob Dole, who unsuccessfully challenged the incumbent presidency of Bill Clinton in 1996, was the face of the Washington legislative establishment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SCULL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senator John McCain, like Mr. Dole, will face a much younger opponent in his presidential bid, but aides say he has learned from Mr. Dole's mistakes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



592 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Obama Urges Mayors to Focus on Urban Growth, but Not to Expect Increased Federal Aid

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama told the nation's mayors on Saturday that current urban policy was obsolete and needed to be replaced by a model that focused on rational metropolitan growth rather than chiefly on inner-city crime and poverty. 
 Drawing on his years as a community organizer on the South Side of Chicago, Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, said that while he intended to be a supportive partner if he won the White House, the mayors should not count on significant additional help from Washington. Change, he said, comes from the bottom up, not the top down.
 Mr. Obama also said the federal government's ability to help cities would be limited in part by a long-term budget deficit left by the Bush administration, which he called ''the most fiscally irresponsible administration in modern times.''
 ''Yes we need to fight poverty; yes, we need to fight crime,'' Mr. Obama, of Illinois, said in a midday address to the United States Conference of Mayors. ''Yes, we need to strengthen our cities. But we also need to stop seeing our cities as the problem and start seeing them as the solution. Because strong cities are the building blocks of strong regions, and strong regions are essential for a strong America.''
 Mr. Obama also used the speech to the mayors to criticize Senator John McCain of Arizona, the probable Republican presidential nominee, for visiting flooded areas of Iowa after voting against financing for some water projects and flood control programs. 
 ''I'm sure they appreciated the sentiment,'' Mr. Obama said, ''but they probably would have appreciated it more if Senator McCain hadn't opposed legislation to fund levees and flood control programs, which he considers pork.''
 He was referring to a $23 billion water bill passed by Congress last year and vetoed by President Bush because he said it was laden with unnecessary spending. Mr. McCain opposed the bill on the same grounds. Congress later overrode the veto of the bill, which contained billions of dollars in projects earmarked for members' districts.
 Mr. McCain took the weekend off from politicking, but his campaign responded with a charge of its own: that while Mr. McCain sponsored an amendment to the water resources bill to provide new financing for Army Corps of Engineers flood control programs, Mr. Obama opposed it. 
 ''Barack Obama's willingness to continue the status quo pork-barrel politics in Washington and then engage in political attacks that entirely disregard the facts once again fundamentally shows that he's nothing more than a typical politician,'' said Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain.
 In his speech to the mayors, Mr. Obama said the federal government should provide aid in building and repairing the roads, rail networks, electrical grids, water systems and telecommunications networks that stitch together metropolitan areas. He promised a $60 billion, 10-year program of infrastructure development.
 But he said cities and states should invest more in education to produce the work force needed to compete in a global economy.
 Mr. Obama promised to untangle the maze of federal bureaucracy that grew up over decades and made it difficult for mayors to know where to turn for federal assistance. He also pledged to appoint the first White House director of urban policy, to be an advocate in Washington for the cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (93%); CITIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FLOOD CONTROL (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); WATER QUALITY (60%); ARMIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008



593 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 531 words

PERSON: Rudolph J. Vecoli 

HEADLINE: Rudolph J. Vecoli, 81, Scholar of Immigration

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Rudolph J. Vecoli, an Italian-American historian whose searching chronicles of the American immigrant experience gave a new view of what immigrants kept and left behind, died on June 17 in St. Louis Park, Minn. He was 81 and lived in St. Paul. 
 The cause was complications of leukemia, said his daughter, Lisa.
 As director for many years of the Immigration History Research Center at the University of Minnesota and in numerous scholarly articles and books, including ''The People of New Jersey'' (1965), and ''A Century of American Immigration, 1884 to 1984,'' Mr. Vecoli argued against the notion that immigrants to the United States left their cultures behind and did their best to blend into mainstream American society. Rather, he wrote, they clung tenaciously to their traditions and developed strategies to retain their heritage and resist pressures to embrace the American social and economic system. 
 Mr. Vecoli was born in Wallingford, Conn., to immigrants from Tuscany. He grew up speaking Italian at home. He served in the Navy after high school and then earned a B.A. in history at the University of Connecticut at Storrs in 1950, a master's degree at the University of Pennsylvania in 1951 and a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1963. His doctoral dissertation dealt with the social and economic experience of Chicago's Italians before World War I.
 After teaching briefly at Rutgers and the University of Illinois, Mr. Vecoli joined the University of Minnesota in 1967 as a professor of history and director of the newly created Immigration History Research Center. The center, which grew out of a research project in the early 1960s on immigrant groups in the Mesabi Range in northeastern Minnesota, collects and studies material relating to the cultural, labor and political experiences of southern and eastern European immigrants.
 Mr. Vecoli devoted himself to retrieving, as he put it, ''ethnic histories of which we know little or nothing.'' In his zeal to rescue documents, he would put on a pair of overalls and search through the attics and basements of potential donors.
 The center's holdings include items as varied as the business records of the Swiss-Italian Sausage Factory in San Francisco and the life insurance payout records of the South Slavonic Catholic Union, a Slovenian fraternal organization based in Ely, Minn. 
 In the early 1990s, the center acquired the records of Libero Pensiero, or Free Thought, a fraternal organization in Wallingford to which Mr. Vecoli's parents belonged. Such materials, Mr. Vecoli said, ''personalize history and save it from abstractions, while broadening our humanity.''
 Mr. Vecoli was president of the American Italian Historical Association from 1966 to 1970 and of the Immigration and Ethnic History Society from 1982 to 1985. He was also a founder of both organizations. From 1983 to 2003, he was chairman of the history committee advising the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation.
 He is survived by his former wife, Jill, and his daughter, Lisa, both of Minneapolis; his sons Chris, of Corvallis, Ore., and Jeremy, of Minneapolis; a sister, Olga Gralton, of Wallingford; and one grandchild.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rudolph J. Vecoli in 1993. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HISTORY (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (84%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); LEUKEMIA (72%); WORLD WAR I (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); US NAVY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); SLOVENIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



594 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; The Met's Math: 2 Stars, 6 Encores, 50,000 in Park

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
The speculation that 100,000 people, maybe even 150,000, might turn up for the Metropolitan Opera's concert in Prospect Park in Brooklyn on Friday night may have been strategic hype from the company's media-savvy general manager, Peter Gelb. Still, Mr. Gelb promised a big show, and this concert, featuring opera's starriest married couple, the soprano Angela Gheorghiu and the tenor Roberto Alagna, was certainly that. 
 The police estimated the crowd at 50,000, which, the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, said, trounced the previous record turnout for a concert in that park, roughly 25,000 for a Patti LaBelle show in 1991. 
 The enormous makeshift stage from which the Met orchestra and chorus performed was flanked by towering video screens offering close-ups not just of the evening's glamorous guest stars and the conductor Ion Marin but also of musicians in the orchestra at pivotal moments during crucial solos.
 As always with these outdoor concerts, hundreds of people showed up early to claim patches of lawn close to the stage for picnic dinners. The Long Meadow section of Prospect Park is aptly named. To extend the concert's reach to the thousands who were seated far away, the Met set up additional video screens and a long phalanx of loudspeakers. One problematic result was that as music ricocheted down the row of loudspeakers, you could hear amplified echoes in the distance. Over all the scene was festive, the audience was enthusiastic, and the singers seemed to relish every moment. 
 But this concert was presented in lieu of the Met's annual tour of the city parks. For more than 40 years audiences throughout the boroughs of New York have turned out for the Met's concert performances of complete operas. So there were justified complaints from opera buffs when Mr. Gelb announced that the traditional tour would be replaced by a single splashy concert. 
 Many factors were at play in the Met's decision, including the financial burden of the tour at a time when the national economy is struggling, as well as the strain it places on the singers, choristers, orchestra players and technicians. 
 At its best, taking complete operas to public parks far removed from Lincoln Center was a meaningful civic gesture. I remember in particular a ''Carmen'' in 1997 at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, starring the glamorous mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves. The weather was balmy, and some 3,000 people attended, a small but appreciative audience.
 At the time Ms. Graves was a rising Met star. Over the years, however, my impression has been that most people who attend these concerts turn out not to see stars, but for the simple miracle of having the Met come to their neighborhoods. Also, by performing complete operas, the company respected the intelligence of the audience. 
 But Mr. Gelb thought that a concert of arias and duets, done up right with renowned singers, would be a potentially exciting and more manageable substitute. Friday's event was a trial run of a new concept, he has said. At least for this audience at Prospect Park it seemed to be an enormous success.
 Thankfully, speeches from officials came before the scheduled 8 p.m. start. Mr. Gelb, in his comments, emphasized that to initiate this venture he had bypassed Manhattan and taken the Met to Brooklyn, Prospect Park being ''the geographical heart of the city.'' It was hard to begrudge the bragging rights of proud Brooklyn officials. Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn native, exuberantly welcomed all those ''who live in the outer boroughs.''
 Just a couple of minutes past 7:59, the precise moment of the summer solstice, Mr. Marin began the concert with the orchestra performing the grimly dramatic Overture to Verdi's ''Forza del Destino,'' not an omen, one hoped, of what the summer will bring. Then, to a prolonged ovation, Ms. Gheorghiu and Mr. Alagna appeared, giving an impassioned account of a duet from Bizet's ''Pecheurs de Perles.'' 
 Throughout the Bizet a security helicopter buzzed above the stage in a circle, flying unusually low and creating a racket. When the duet ended, hundreds of people in the audience shouted and shook their fists at the helicopter, which stayed away after that.
 An amplified outdoor concert is not an occasion to pass critical judgment on the vocal states of the featured artists. But in general Ms. Gheorghiu and Mr. Alagna delivered urgent, stirring and emotional performances that earned them ovation after ovation.
 Ms. Gheorghiu was particularly affecting in the beguiling ''Ebben? Ne andro lontana,'' a popular aria from Catalani's otherwise little-known ''La Wally.'' Mr. Alagna gave a plaintive if rhythmically liberal account of ''E lucevan le stelle'' from Puccini's ''Tosca.'' He also performed an aria from ''Le Dernier Jour d'un Condamne,'' an opera based on a Hugo novel composed by his brother David Alagna, also a stage director. If this teeming, romantic French aria had been announced as music of the tenor's grandfather, I would have believed it. 
 A performance of the ''Anvil Chorus'' from Verdi's ''Trovatore,'' complete with video close-ups of the anvils being hammered, earned hearty bravos for the Met's choristers. Among other selections Ms. Gheorghiu and Mr. Alagna sang ardent duets: familiar ones, from Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' and Verdi's ''Traviata,'' and the less familiar ''C'est le Dieu!'' from Delibes's ''Lakme,'' which ended the formal portion of the relatively short program at about 9:40. 
 Then came the encores. Mr. Alagna wooed the audience with a Puccini favorite, ''Nessun dorma'' from ''Turandot.'' In a nod to Ms. Gheorghiu's heritage, the two sang a duet from a Romanian operetta by Gherase Dendrino. They also turned ''O sole mio'' into a playfully competitive duet, milked ''Grenada'' for all its mass appeal and asked the audience to join them and the Met's choristers in ''Libiamo,'' the bubbly drinking song from ''La Traviata.'' But they may have slightly overestimated the audience's adulation when they repeated ''Grenada'' as their sixth and final encore. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A music column and headlines on Monday about the Metropolitan Opera's concert in Prospect Park on Friday night, featuring Angela Gheorghiu and Roberto Alagna, misstated the number of encores they performed. It was seven, not six. The column also misspelled the title of one encore piece, which was repeated. It is ''Granada,'' not ''Grenada.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angela Gheorghiu and Roberto Alagna in Prospect Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); OPERA (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



595 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Treaty on Ice

BYLINE: By JOHN B. BELLINGER. 
John B. Bellinger is the legal adviser to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 WITH the Arctic ice melting, anticipated increases in Arctic shipping, tourism and economic activity, and Russia's flag-planting at the North Pole last summer, there has been much talk in the press about a ''race to the Arctic'' and even some calls for a new treaty to govern the ''lawless'' Arctic region. 
 We should all cool down. While there may be a need to expand cooperation in some areas, like search and rescue, there is already an extensive legal framework governing the region. The five countries bordering the Arctic Ocean -- the United States, Canada, Denmark, Norway and Russia -- have made clear their commitment to observe these international legal rules. In fact, top officials from these nations met last month in Greenland to acknowledge their role in protecting the Arctic Ocean and to put to rest the notion that there is a Wild West-type rush to claim and plunder its natural resources. 
 Existing international law already provides a comprehensive set of rules governing use of the world's oceans, including the Arctic. The law enshrines navigational rights and freedoms for military and commercial vessels. It also specifies the rights of coastal nations in offshore marine areas. Setting aside the unfortunate flag-planting on the North Pole (a stunt with no legal significance), Russia has been following international procedures for identifying the legal extent of its boundaries, including its continental shelf.
 Other solid international rules also apply in the Arctic. In instances where the maritime claims of coastal nations overlap, international law sets forth principles for them to apply in resolving their disputes. As for protecting the marine environment, the law spells out both national and internationally agreed pollution control measures. 
 As one example, the United Nations' International Maritime Organization has produced treaties that limit pollution from various sources, including ships and ocean dumping. It has also developed safety guidelines for ship operations in hard-to-navigate ice-covered areas. What's more, the Arctic Council, an eight-nation diplomatic forum, is working to strengthen its already existing guidelines on oil and gas activities. 
 Some nongovernmental organizations and academics say that we need an ''Arctic treaty'' along the lines of the treaty system that governs Antarctica. Though it sounds nice, such a treaty would be unnecessary and inappropriate. The situations in the Arctic and the Antarctic are hardly analogous. The Antarctic Treaty, signed in 1959, governs a continent surrounded by oceans -- a place where it was necessary to suspend claims to sovereignty in order to promote peace and scientific research. The Arctic, by contrast, is an ocean surrounded by continents. Its ocean is already subject to international rules, including rules related to marine scientific research, and its land has long been divided up, so there are few disputes over boundaries.
 So what should the United States do about the Arctic? For starters, it should do nothing to advance a new comprehensive treaty for the region. Instead, it should take full advantage of the existing rules by joining the Law of the Sea Convention. The convention, now before the Senate, would codify and maximize international recognition of United States rights to one of the largest and most resource-rich continental shelves in the world -- extending at least 600 miles off Alaska. 
 Canada, Denmark, Norway and Russia are parties to the convention and they are already acting to protect and maximize their rights. The United States should do the same. Signing on would do much more to protect American security and interests in the Arctic than pursuing the possibility of a treaty that we really don't need. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); OCEANS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ADMIRALTY LAW (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (92%); EARTH (79%) ARCTIC (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ANTARCTICA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



596 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Better-Qualified Teachers

 BODY:
The United States has a long and dishonorable history of dumping the least-qualified teachers into schools that serve poor and minority students. This shameful practice has persisted nationally, despite the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, which required the states to place ''highly qualified'' teachers in every classroom. 
 The picture has improved significantly, however, in New York City, where state law has abolished temporary licenses for uncertified teachers, raised standards in teacher preparation programs and spawned innovative strategies for recruiting better teachers.
 A new study by the nonpartisan National Bureau of Economic Research shows that the teacher qualification gap between poor and well-to-do schools in New York City narrowed considerably between 2000 and 2005. The qualification index took into account several factors, including certification, experience, the teacher's SAT scores and the rank of the undergraduate college the teacher attended.
 In the poorest schools, the better-qualified teachers have driven modest improvements in student achievement. It may be that right now the city is doing as well as it can with the current applicant pool. And there is certainly more to teaching than SAT scores and other credentials. Still, the study shows that the city could substantially improve performance in fourth and fifth grade math by hiring more people with strong credentials. 
 Higher salaries have clearly played a role in strengthening the city's teacher corps. But the state kicked off the quality movement when it prohibited the hiring of uncertified teachers and required lackluster training programs to shape up or shut down. 
 These programs are indeed producing stronger teachers. But a large part of the improvement in New York is owed to two alternative certification routes: the Teaching Fellows program, which encourages mature professionals to enter teaching, and the national Teach for America organization, which places high-achieving college graduates in schools that are difficult to staff. 
 The New York example shows that the qualification gap could be closed in a relatively short period of time if the country made it a priority. By emulating the New York model, America could finally give its children the highly qualified teachers that they desperately need. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); CHILDREN (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



597 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: For Rent-Stabilized Tenants, Increases Raise Fear

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The rent is getting so hard to pay that Maricela Soto can barely afford her favorite green bell peppers at the supermarket. ''Soon,'' she said in Spanish, ''I'm just going to have start eating chicken and forget about the rest.''
 Ms. Soto is unemployed and severely disabled, and she says she has suffered mental stress because she is worried that she will not be able to pay her rent. 
 She has grown accustomed to writing the monthly check for $721.56 for her rent-stabilized apartment in Inwood, in northern Manhattan. But come this fall, she, like many low-income tenants in rent-stabilized homes, is likely to be hit with a higher-than-expected increase.
 The city's Rent Guidelines Board, which regulates rent for New York City's one million rent-stabilized apartments, approved the highest rent increases in years on Thursday. The board authorized increases of up to 4.5 percent on one-year leases and 8.5 percent on two-year leases. 
 The board also took the unusual step of authorizing a supplemental rent increase that affected only tenants who have lived in their apartments for six years or more. 
 Owners of buildings with those tenants have the option of charging them the approved increases or a $45 monthly increase for one-year leases or $85 for two-year leases, whichever is greater. Ms. Soto, who has been in her apartment for 12 years, could face either increase.
 Dozens of tenants and tenant advocates who gathered on the steps of City Hall on Sunday morning to protest the increases, saying they unfairly affect seniors and working families. Landlords acknowledged that the increases would be difficult for some renters, but said that they were needed to make up for rising operating costs.
 For some tenants, the increases, which will apply to leases renewed between Oct. 1, 2008, and Sept. 30, 2009, will mean cutting back on groceries and gas. Others said they might be forced to move out.
 Ms. Soto, 54, and her husband, 77, both immigrants from the Dominican Republic, receive about $1,200 per month from Social Security. Her husband is retired, and she is unable to work because of back problems and numb hands.
 They already have difficulty paying the rent for their two-bedroom apartment. Ms. Soto said that she often travels far from home to buy the things she needs on sale, in order to save every cent possible. In light of Thursday's approved increases, she said, she tries not to dwell on the prospects. ''I'm still in shock,'' she said. ''My mind is not clear.''
 Other tenants were similarly taken aback. Manuela Ceballos, a single mother who has lived in her Inwood apartment for 17 years and pays $1,200 each month, said her budget, too, is already strained. She wondered how she would provide for her three children and pay for her 17-year-old son to go to college in the fall.
 ''How am I going to survive? How am I going to pay?'' said Ms. Ceballos, a parent coordinator at school.
 Another Inwood resident, Albania Lopez, said she had canceled her planned summer vacation to the Poconos and worried whether she would be able to continue to pay for English and math tutoring for her two daughters. She said her family might ultimately be forced to find a new place to live. ''Any little bit is going to affect our daily lives because we're already behind,'' she said. ''The city is just not sensitive to our community.''
 Joseph Strasburg, president of the Rent Stabilization Association, which represents thousands of landlords, said that owners have faced their own rising costs. He said that those include higher sewer and water usage rates and real estate taxes. The rent increases would help landlords keep up, he said.
 ''The real difficulty is that we do realize that there is going to be a level of hardship imposed on low-income tenants,'' he said. ''The other difficulty is that some small property owners are also suffering.''
 Mr. Strasburg suggested that the city look for other ways to help both sides.
 Tenants were upset by the swiftness of the board's approval of the increases and what they called a lack of public involvement. The supplemental increase was not part of a range of increases approved in May, and a memorandum describing it was distributed to board members on Thursday morning.
 City Councilman Miguel Martinez, a Manhattan Democrat, said advocates were seeking ways to help evicted tenants find aid through city programs, and were considering challenging the Rent Guidelines Board's handling of the increases.
 Tenants said they hoped the new fees would somehow fall through. Ms. Soto said she was depressed about what her future may hold. Sometimes, she said, she wakes up in the night crying, not knowing whether she will be able to stay in her home.
 ''I don't know how I'll deal with it,'' she said. ''I don't have peace and calm anymore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (94%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); APPROVALS (74%); FAMILY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



598 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: As Sand Bubbles Up Along an Illinois Levee, So Do New Questions

BYLINE: By MALCOLM GAY

DATELINE: CAHOKIA, Ill. 

 BODY:
Even as many found cheer that floodwaters along the Mississippi River here would fall well short of what had been predicted, residents and the authorities in this town discovered a stark reminder of what might lie ahead: a sand boil on the aged levee that protects the town, a telltale sign that the swollen river had begun eroding the structure from beneath. 
 ''I didn't even know what a sand boil was,'' Mayor Frank Bergman said as he surveyed the waterlogged levee, referring to the mix of sand and water that bubbles up from the ground. ''But it's clearly time to upgrade our levees and keep our system safe.'' 
 The flooding that has claimed 24 lives and forced thousands to evacuate across six states continued Sunday, as the Mississippi crested in the northern Missouri town of Canton. Just upriver from St. Louis, Winfield, Mo., and Grafton, Ill., continued battling rising waters. Forecasters from the National Weather Service predicted that floodwaters would begin receding in the St. Louis area later this week.
 As the river at nearby St. Louis leveled out at around 12 feet below the record set during the 1993 flood and about two feet below what had been predicted for the weekend, investigators had identified and contained several more boils on the levee, and the marshland that sits just behind it had crept to within 100 yards of the village hall.
 Last year, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, after consulting with the Army Corps of Engineers, found that the five-levee system that protects the metropolitan area of East St. Louis, Ill., did not meet its standards for flood protection. 
 ''It's not that we think these levees will fail,'' said David Busse, chief of engineering and construction for the St. Louis district of the corps. ''But in order for me to certify these levees, they'd have to meet today's standards, and some of these levees have been here forever.''
 The corps estimates that it would cost roughly $200 million to bring the 70-year-old levee system into compliance -- quite a challenge for a region that is home to East St. Louis and several other deeply impoverished communities trying to attract development. 
 The assessment of the five-levee system is part of a nationwide effort to update FEMA's flood maps. The levees' failure to meet the agency's standards means that when the updated maps are published in 2009, they will no longer show the levees as providing protection from a 100-year flood, according to Norbert Schwartz, the agency's director of mitigation for the region. 
 Rather, the 195,000-acre region -- comprising parts of Madison, Monroe and St. Clair Counties -- will be considered an unprotected flood plain. Such a designation would require homeowners with federally backed mortgages to buy flood insurance, could raise flood-insurance rates and could affect the region's economic development.
 ''It all goes hand in hand,'' said Derrick Johnson, 47, a car salesman from East St. Louis. ''If you only fix one thing, you're going to suffer from the other. So I don't care how nice a school you build, it won't be so nice if it floods.'' 
 Frank Smith, 62, a social worker from East St. Louis, said he was less convinced of the need to repair the levees before addressing other issues, adding that he believed that many of his neighbors could not afford flood insurance. 
 ''We've got 3,000 families living without utilities,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We have sewers that are collapsing. And you're going to put $200 million into our levee system? How could we afford it?'' 
 But as cities, towns and farms north of here have yielded in the past few weeks to the Mississippi's tremendous flooding, scientists have again emphasized a sharp increase in flooding in recent history. They say established communities like East St. Louis and neighboring Cahokia would be well advised to repair their levee systems.
 ''We have had two almost 100-year floods and two almost 500-year floods in a 35-year period,'' said Nicholas Pinter, a professor who specializes in flood hydrology at Southern Illinois University, Carbondale. ''Flood levels all along this stretch of the Mississippi have climbed upward, not just by inches but by 8, 10, 12 feet -- up to 18 feet over historical 100-year flood conditions. So the simple answer is that floods are higher and more frequent.
 ''But the underlying theme to everything that's going on,'' Dr. Pinter added, ''is that the current estimates for flood frequency and intensity appear to be grossly underestimated.''
 Dr. Pinter maintains that while climate change and levee construction have contributed to increased flooding in the St. Louis area, the real culprits are river modifications made to ease navigation, which put further stress on the levee systems.
 ''All of our analyses point, at least on this stretch of river, to the river navigation engineering as being the 800-pound gorilla in the system,'' Dr. Pinter said. ''These types of river-training structures are the major mechanisms that drive flooding rivers higher.''
 Dr. Pinter and colleagues have presented their findings to the Army Corps, which so far has resisted the notion that navigational devices have increased flooding. 
 ''All of the information I have seen, and I've been looking at this issue for a very long time, navigation structures do not increase flood heights -- I'm very confident of that,'' Mr. Busse said. ''We have data that shows that the flows come in at stages that are the same or lower since we've put these projects in, and that's just a fact.''
 But city leaders whose communities are at risk of being in an unprotected flood plain are looking at a very different set of facts. 
 ''You can name the people in this community who work on your fingers,'' said Nathaniel O'Bannon, the mayor of Brooklyn, Ill. ''But these low-lying areas? Those levees need to be repaired. We really need it done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A floodgate in Cahokia, Ill., on the five-levee system that protects the East St. Louis region from the Mississippi River. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: The five levees are not up to FEMA's current standards
 Map of Cahokia in Illinois. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CITIES (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); EROSION (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ENGINEERING (69%); ARMIES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (71%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



599 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Mad Dash Of Bikers Leaves Island In Its Dust

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: DOUGLAS, Isle of Man 

 BODY:
Halfway down the suburban road that descends Bray Hill, past the traffic lights, between the elementary school and rows of homes with families relaxing in their front yards, there is a barely perceptible bump. 
 Crouching on their 1,000-cubic-centimeter Honda, Suzuki and Yamaha motorcycles, the race leaders hit the bump at 185 miles an hour, their machines rearing up like prancing horses before settling back onto the asphalt and continuing down the hill at full throttle, engines shrieking. Near the bottom they pass a 30-miles-per-hour speed-limit sign at 195 m.p.h., then sweep through a right curve and out of sight.
 To see the Tourist Trophy, or T.T., races on this idyllically lovely but quirky island in the Irish Sea is to watch men operating at the edge of physics, and of reason.
 Daytona, Indianapolis, Le Mans, Monaco, Monza -- all are better-known cathedrals of speed and risk. But nowhere are the extremes as great as on the Isle of Man, which has largely resisted a push for stricter safety measures that has all but eliminated true road racing elsewhere. Since the first Tourist Trophy race in 1907, the island has maintained the tradition, the motorcycles tearing then as now through villages and towns on everyday public roads, achieving unimaginable speeds. 
 ''This is the Super Bowl; this is the big show,'' said Mark Miller, a graduate in aeronautical science from Long Beach, Calif., who was one of two Americans among the 600 riders competing in this year's T.T. races, held each year in early June.
 But with the tradition has come a grim record of deaths -- 224 riders killed over the years in the Tourist Trophy races and another motorcycle event, the Manx Grand Prix, that runs on the same course in late summer. Dozens more deaths have occurred among race marshals, spectators and ''civilian'' riders who take to the course after the races on high-powered road bikes and try to emulate the racers' daredevil feats. 
 Despite a toll that mounts nearly every year, and a coroner's report that identified major failings in track supervision after an accident last year that killed an English rider and two spectators, the Isle of Man clings proudly to the races. 
 Control of the races rests with the island government, which values them as a way to increase tourism; this year, the 35,000 visitors, from all over Europe, spent an estimated $25 million. But the days when the races were an economic mainstay are gone, as a boom in banking, financial services and manufacturing has pushed the gross national product of the island, which until only 20 years ago was an outpost of poverty with a declining population, past $3 billion. 
 The races' enduring value these days, apart from the astonishing spectacle, seems to lie in their sustaining influence on the island's psyche. In the races, many of the 80,000 inhabitants say, they find affirmation of the island's do-it-my-way tradition, free from many of the timid constraints that they say have made a ''nanny state'' of modern Britain. 
 Lying at roughly equal distances from England, Ireland and Scotland, the island has a population that is a mix of Viking, Scottish, Irish and English blood, and a 1,000-year-old parliament, the Tynwald, that islanders contend is the world's longest-surviving democratic institution. Many of the top riders over the decades have come from Scots-Irish stock, with a tradition, bred by history, of defying imposed authority. 
 ''Over the decades, the Isle of Man has evolved with the T.T. races, and the races have evolved with the Isle of Man,'' said Tony Brown, 58, a local businessman and the island's chief minister, as he greeted visitors in a hospitality tent near the pits. ''It's part of our culture.'' 
 Though it is only 65 miles by ferry from the British mainland and recognizes Queen Elizabeth II as its head of state, the island is not part of the United Kingdom. It is what is known in British constitutional parlance as a ''self-governing dependent territory,'' with freedom to fashion its own laws and way of life.
 Like a range of other island territories around the world, it is a tax haven, attracting lucrative foreign banking and investment that have pushed living standards past those in mainland Britain.
 In recent years, the government has cracked down on tax evaders, money-launderers and other white-collar criminals, winning plaudits from senior American officials and getting the island off the United States Treasury's list of ''uncooperative tax havens.'' The government now steers a judicious course, fostering the island's allure to the wealthy while bolstering, through new tax and accounting rules, its claim to be a ''reputable international citizen.''
 But caution is scarcely the hallmark of what happens here during race week and the week of practice that precedes it. Mr. Miller, who has had a long and successful career on the dedicated tracks used for motorcycle racing in the United States, was stunned when he arrived for his first race here two years ago and set out to learn the course.
 Starting in Douglas, the capital, the circuit has 226 corners on its way north to the town of Ramsey, then back to Douglas over the 2,036-foot-high Snaefell Mountain, which overlooks the island's northern reaches. Every stretch is bordered by what the riders call ''street furniture'' -- stone walls, curbs, pubs, houses, shops, telephone booths, mailboxes, lampposts, manhole covers, bumps and overhanging trees -- little of it protected by air bags, hay bales or other safety features.
 Along the way are thousands of spectators standing on grassy banks and behind stone walls, almost close enough at some points to reach out and touch the riders' helmets as they rocket past. 
 ''It's the scariest thing I've ever done,'' Mr. Miller said after leaving this year's main race, the Senior T.T., with an early mechanical failure on his Honda. ''Going through those villages at 180 miles an hour, you've got the bike bucking like a bronco and just about tearing the handlebars out of your hands, and you're fighting constantly to keep in full tuck'' -- down behind the fairing, the motorcycle's aerodynamic shell.
 ''It's like taking a fighter jet down to tree level, popping the canopy, turning upside down, then going down to road level and touching your helmet on the pavement,'' he said. ''One mistake and it's your life.'' Thirty-two riders have died in the past 10 years, including a sidecar rider in 1999 who was one of three women to die while competing in the races. Nine riders died in 2005, the worst year in Tourist Trophy history. 
 The government instituted an array of safety measures after the accident last year in which a rider fatally struck two people watching from an area on Snaefell that was prohibited to spectators though it was not marked as such. But Mr. Brown, the chief minister, took a laissez-faire attitude about the dangers to racers. ''Everybody who competes in the T.T. knows the risks,'' he said. ''Nobody's forced to ride.'' 
 This year there were no deaths among competing riders or spectators, but four among visitors speeding over Snaefell on their motorcycles after the races. 
 The races' appeal reaches far beyond the culture of dyed-in-the-wool bikers.
 One enthusiast with memories of the races in the 1930s is Sir Frank Kermode, a native Manxman, as islanders are known, who is widely regarded as one of the world's leading literary scholars. Now 88 and living in Cambridge, England, where he taught for years, he took time off from writing an article for The New York Review of Books to reminisce about his boyhood days in the 1930s, rising at 4:30 a.m. to get a good vantage point along the route, and to get autographs from the champion riders.
 ''I was crazy about the races,'' Sir Frank said. 
 But the dangers were ever-present. ''The riders,'' he said, ''used to get killed like flies.'' 
 Today, many racers say that dwelling on the risk of death would make it impossible to compete effectively. But others, including John McGuinness, an English rider who last year set the lap speed record -- an average of 130.4 m.p.h. over the 37 3/4-mile circuit -- take another view. 
 This year, Mr. McGuinness won the Senior T.T., a six-lap event, for the fourth time in succession. Afterward, still in his racing leathers, he talked about the racing friends he had lost in fatal accidents on the island, including David Jefferies, a multiple winner, who was killed while practicing in 2003. 
 Mr. McGuinness, who has won 14 Tourist Trophy races, the second-highest total, said he thought about the hazards every moment during a race.
 ''When you're at 200 m.p.h. on a bike here, there's no feeling like it anywhere in the world,'' he said. But he said he thought of his lost friends every time he passed the places on the track where they were killed. ''Every time I go through,'' he said, ''I ask them to look after me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Plaques in a cemetery on the Isle of Man commemorate some of the 224 riders killed in motorcycle races there since 1907
A Tourist Trophy competitor taking a sharp corner on the twisting course in early June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMIE SCOTT-LONG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A13) MAP: The Isle of Man, in the Irish Sea, has 80,000 residents (pg. A13)
 Map of Douglas in the Isle of Man. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCYCLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); AUTO RACING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISLE OF MAN (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MONACO (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008



600 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: MUGABE'S RIVAL QUITS RUNOFF, CITING ATTACKS

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER and BARRY BEARAK

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
The leader of Zimbabwe's opposition party withdrew Sunday from a presidential runoff, just five days before it was to be held, saying he could neither participate ''in this violent, illegitimate sham of an election process,'' nor ask his voters to risk their lives in the face of threats from forces backing President Robert Mugabe.
 The opposition candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai, the standard-bearer of the Movement for Democratic Change, said at a news conference in Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, that his party was facing a war rather than an election, ''and we will not be part of that war.'' 
 A governing party militia blocked his supporters from attending a major rally in Harare on Sunday, the head of an election observer team said. The opposition said rowdy youths, armed with iron bars and sticks, beat up people who had come to cheer for Mr. Tsvangirai. 
 It was the latest incident in a tumultuous campaign season in which Mr. Tsvangirai has been repeatedly detained, his party's chief strategist jailed on treason charges that many people consider bogus, and rampant state-sponsored violence has left at least 85 opposition supporters dead and thousands injured, according to tallies by doctors treating the victims.
 Mr. Tsvangirai's decision to quit the race seems intended to force Zimbabwe's neighbors to take a stand. There are growing cracks in the solidarity that African heads of state have shown for Mr. Mugabe, an 84-year-old liberation hero whose defiant anti-Western rhetoric has long struck a resonant chord in a region with a bitter colonial history. 
 The United States and Britain are pressing to put Zimbabwe's political crisis on the United Nations Security Council agenda on Monday, a step South Africa, the region's most powerful nation, has consistently opposed. 
 Gordon D. Johndroe, the White House National Security Council spokesman, said in an e-mail message that the United States wants the United Nations to consider taking additional steps. ''Mugabe cannot be allowed to repress the Zimbabwean people forever,'' he said.
 It remains to be seen whether southern Africa's leaders will collectively censure Mr. Mugabe or take tougher steps, such as economic sanctions, to isolate his government. They have never done so before, despite elections in 2002 and 2005 that were widely believed to have been marked by rigging and fraud, but that his regional peers declared legitimate.
 Marwick Khumalo, who heads the Pan-African Parliament's observer team, which witnessed the aborted rally on Sunday, said it would be unfortunate if bodies representing African nations endorsed the current election. He said he had just returned from the Rusape District in Manicaland Province where the police chief told him six people, all from the opposition, had been killed.
 ''How can you have an election where people are killed and hacked to death as the sun goes down?'' Mr. Khumalo asked. ''How can you have an election where the leader of one party is not even allowed to conduct rallies?''
 Nonetheless, Zimbabwe's information minister, Sikhanyiso Ndlovu, told The Associated Press that the runoff would go forward on Friday despite Mr. Tsvangirai's departure from the race.
 ''The Constitution does not say that if somebody drops out or decides to chicken out the runoff will not be held,'' Mr. Ndlovu said.
 Mr. Tsvangirai notified the South African president, Thabo Mbeki, the regional mediator in Zimbabwe's crisis, of his withdrawal, Mr. Mbeki's spokesman, Mukoni Ratshitanga, said, adding that Mr. Mbeki was encouraged that the candidate ''is not closing the door on negotiations completely.'' Mr. Ratshitanga declined to comment on the legitimacy of the current election. 
 There may yet be more twists in this saga. Zambia's president, Levy Mwanawasa, a Mugabe critic and the chairman of the Southern African Development Community, the bloc of 14 nations that chose Mr. Mbeki as mediator, suggested to reporters in Lusaka, Zambia, that the election should be postponed ''to avert a catastrophe in the region.''
 And Mr. Tsvangirai kept open the possibility that he might re-enter the race in the extremely unlikely event that the United Nations or the African Union stepped in to end the violence by Wednesday, when he intends to announce his party's next steps.
 Mr. Mugabe, in power for 28 years, has made it difficult for his fellow African heads of state to pretend there is anything normal about this election. He has repeatedly declared at public rallies in recent days that he would never allow Mr. Tsvangirai, whom he denounces as a pawn of Britain, the former colonial power in Zimbabwe, to become president through the ballot box, vowing that the bullet is mightier than the ballpoint pen.
 ''Only God, who appointed me, will remove me, not the M.D.C., not the British,'' Mr. Mugabe declared in the city of Bulawayo on Friday. ''Only God will remove me!''
 Mr. Tsvangirai defeated Mr. Mugabe in a general election on March 29 by 48 percent to 43 percent, according to the government's count. The opposition claimed it had won a majority outright and that no runoff was needed.
 The Movement for Democratic Change has a history of agonizing about whether to participate in elections it presumed would be unfair, and there have long been deep divisions within the party about how to proceed. This year, Mr. Tsvangirai reluctantly entered the race, though he argued that Mr. Mbeki, the mediator, had failed to ensure conditions for a fair contest.
 Mr. Tsvangirai said earlier this year that, at a minimum, the election would reveal the ugly face of Mr. Mugabe's despotic and economically disastrous reign. The opposition then vacillated about participating in the June 27 runoff, but finally decided to do so.
 Opposition party leaders assumed that the ferocious violence against its supporters would abate once election observers from across Africa arrived, making it possible for them to campaign openly and mobilize their poll workers. Instead, Mr. Khumalo, the head of the team of election observers, said, ''As the election was gaining momentum, so was the violence.''
 In a decision that will be likely to disappoint some of his supporters, especially those who have paid a terrible price for backing him, Mr. Tsvangirai apparently decided the level of violence had become intolerable.
 The party also concluded that the systematic campaign to displace thousands of its poll workers had been so effective in the three vote-rich Mashonaland provinces, where Mr. Tsvangirai made strong inroads into Mr. Mugabe's support, that they would be unable to staff the polling stations on election day, leaving them open to ballot-box stuffing.
 Mr. Tsvangirai, a charismatic former trade union leader who has been Mr. Mugabe's hated rival for almost a decade, charged Sunday that the president's violent, vengeful strategy had displaced 200,000 people, destroyed 20,000 homes and injured and maimed over 10,000 people in what he called ''this orgy of violence.''
 Sunday evening, downtown Harare was largely peaceful, with Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters retreating home early, leaving the streets to pro-Mugabe brigades, chanting, ''Win or war!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Men with sticks and iron bars beating unidentified victims Sunday at the site of a rally that had been planned by the main opposition party in Harare, Zimbabwe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Morgan Tsvangirai, the opposition party leader, on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TSVANGIRAYI MUKWAZHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); HISTORY (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); TREASON (67%); POLICE FORCES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (52%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (94%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (97%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

 
