

201 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Japan and China Dispute a Pacific Islet

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 9 

 BODY:
The smaller of the two is roughly the size of a twin bed and pokes only 2.9 inches out of the ocean. The larger, as big as a small bedroom perhaps, manages to rise up 6.3 inches. 
 The Japanese government has already spent $600 million to keep the two barren islets in the western Pacific above water. Collectively called Okinotori and located 1,082 miles south of here, the islets have long allowed Tokyo to claim exclusive economic control over an ocean area larger than all of Japan. 
 But a threat potentially bigger than typhoons or global warming emerged last year when China challenged Japan's exclusive rights to the economically and militarily important waters, describing Okinotori as just a ''rock.'' 
 Rock or island, Okinotori lies in a three-square-mile coral reef, most of which is under water even at low tide. A few decades ago, the area was dotted with half a dozen islets, but by 1989, only two were still visible. To protect its claim, the government in Tokyo encased the tiny protrusions -- some 1,400 yards apart -- in 82-foot-thick concrete, an effort that cost $280 million. Workers later covered the smaller islet with a $50 million titanium net to shield it from debris thrown up by the waves.
 Finally, slits were made across the concrete casing, so it would comply with the United Nations law that an island be ''surrounded by water.''
 As with some of Japan's other territorial disputes, a patriotic organization with right-wing roots has taken the lead in rebutting the Chinese challenge to Okinotori's status. The organization, the Nippon Foundation, has drawn short-term plans to build a lighthouse and long-term ones to increase the size of the islets by breeding micro-organisms known as foraminifera. The government last month installed a radar, repaired a heliport and placed an official address plaque, ''1 Okinotori Island, Ogasawara Village, Tokyo.'' 
 Shintaro Ishihara, the tough-talking governor of Tokyo, under whose jurisdiction the islets fall, took reporters to Okinotori recently and raised the Japanese flag on it.
 ''That's an island,'' he said later. ''A tiny island. Territory.''
 ''Got a problem with that?'' he said with a grin.
 The Chinese do. In a meeting with Japanese officials last year, they said Okinotori could not be regarded as an island under the United Nations Law of the Sea.
 According to the law, an ''island is a naturally formed area of land, surrounded by water, which is above water at high tide.'' Furthermore, it adds, ''rocks which cannot sustain human habitation or economic life of their own shall have no exclusive economic zone.''
 Okinotori lies at a militarily strategic point, midway between Taiwan and Guam, where American forces are based. Chinese vessels -- whose increasing forays into this disputed exclusive economic zone have been drawing Japanese protests -- are believed to be mapping the sea bottom over which Americans warships might pass on their way to Taiwan.
 Washington supports Tokyo on the island versus rock issue. But a visit to Tokyo in February by John R. Bolton, then an under secretary of state, no doubt left the Japanese scratching their heads: With friends like these, who needs the Chinese?
 An American reporter unable to pronounce Okinotori shima, which means ''Offshore bird island,'' asked Mr. Bolton about ''Otokono shima,'' a nonexistent island that would mean, ''Man's island.''
 ''The rock,'' Mr. Bolton said.
 ''Yeah, the rock,'' the reporter said.
 No one has ever lived on Okinotori, and the islets have yet to show any sign of economic life. Workers are deployed twice a year to make repairs to the casing that sits atop Okinotori, and this year, after China's ''rock'' declaration, the Ministry of Land raised the budget for it to $5.6 million, from $2 million. 
 Last fall, fearing that inaction would mean losing out to China, the Nippon Foundation focused its considerable resources on the issue. 
 ''If someone doesn't do it, this country would drag its feet and nothing would be decided,'' said Yoshihiko Yamada, who oversees the Okinotori project for the foundation.
 The foundation led teams of researchers and reporters on two boat trips to Okinotori. Mr. Yamada, something of a romantic, waxed poetic about the ''moonlit sea,'' the ''mysterious natural environment'' and the flyingfish jumping merrily around the ship.
 ''We made it into sashimi and it was delicious,'' he said.
 The foundation now wants to build a $1 million lighthouse, which would constitute economic activity by guiding ships. ''If the government can't do that, we are asking them to let us do it,'' Mr. Yamada said. 
 Other proposals include opening up Okinotori to divers or ecotourists. Masazumi Nagamitsu, an executive director at the foundation, is partial to an international coral research center and a 6,500-foot runway. An even more ambitious proposal would reverse the land erosion by attracting foraminifera -- hard-shelled organisms that would attach themselves to the islet. 
 ''Well, I wonder what their intention is with these proposals,'' said Katsunori Kadoyu, an official at the Ministry of Land, which administers Okinotori. He has yet to step foot on Okinotori but watches live images of it from a camera set up there in February. ''It is a bit difficult to answer.''
 Part of the difficulty lies in the history of the Nippon Foundation, which was founded by Ryoichi Sasakawa, a World War II war-crimes suspect who built a gambling empire around motorboat racing.
 Yukio Hori, a retired professor at Tohoku Bunka Gakuen University and author, said the government and nationalist groups often had a collaborative relationship. Those groups would typically push a project that government officials were hesitant to do openly. 
 In another territorial dispute with China, over the Senkaku Islands, Japan's largest right-wing group, Nihon Seinen-sha, built a lighthouse there 27 years ago and traveled to it regularly for repairs. After the government and Nihon Seinen-sha engaged in negotiations last year, the government finally took over control of the lighthouse early this year.
 On Okinotori, the government may let the foundation build its lighthouse. Doing so on its own could be too provocative to the Chinese.
 ''In some aspect,'' Mr. Nagamitsu said, ''we are doing things that the government finds a bit difficult to do, or that they are entrusting us to do, or hoping we would do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The governor of Tokyo raised the Rising Sun over an islet in the Pacific. (Photo by Issei Kato/Reuters)Map highlighting Okinotori: Okinotori lies between Taiwan and American bases on Guam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCEANS (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); LAW OF THE SEA (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Islands

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) United Nations

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%) JAPAN (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUAM (92%); TAIWAN (92%) Japan; China; Okinotori Island; Taiwan; Guam; Pacific Ocean; Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



202 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; SundayBusiness; Mutal Funds Report; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: The Market's Up. Why Do We Feel Blue?

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
THE second quarter proved to be, well, a conundrum for mutual fund investors.
 On paper, the quarter was rather successful. The average domestic stock fund, for example, advanced 2.8 percent, reversing a slide of 2.3 percent in the first quarter. Among general domestic stock funds, the gain for the quarter was 2.4 percent.
The gains were fairly widespread. Money was made in small-company and blue-chip stock funds -- and in growth-oriented and value-oriented portfolios. And both stock and bond funds posted solid gains, on average, in contrast to the first quarter, when both lost ground. Stock and bond funds benefited from an unexpected fall in long-term interest rates, which Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman, called a ''conundrum.'' 
 And some of the big winners -- again -- were real estate sector funds, which soared 13 percent, on average, in the quarter; utilities funds, up 7.5 percent; and natural resources funds, up 2.4 percent, as crude oil futures prices hit $60 a barrel in the quarter.
 Yet investors emerged from the second quarter less optimistic than they were at the start of the year, when many stock and bond funds were in the red.
 Despite a slight improvement in June, the UBS Index of Investor Optimism remains substantially below its level in the first quarter. That may explain why net new cash flows into stock funds were down 38 percent this year through May, versus the corresponding period last year, according to the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry trade group.
 ''I'm shocked at the level of apathy -- perhaps even pessimism -- about the market, given the current environment for stocks,'' said Jonathan Golub, a United States equity strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds. ''The public has this thing really, really wrong.''
 Part of the public's dour mood may be attributable to the perceived gap between the performance of the equity markets and real estate. While the average sales price of an existing single-family home shot up nearly 13 percent in the 12 months through May, the stock market ''is stuck in a trading range,'' said Robert Doll, chief investment officer for Merrill Lynch Investment Managers. 
 But the real culprit may be the unpredictability of the markets themselves. ''This was one of those quarters where no one was 100 percent prescient,'' said Andrew Clark, senior research analyst at Lipper, the fund tracker.
 For instance, despite all the uncertainties surrounding inflation and oil prices, three things seemed rather certain at the start of the quarter. 
 For one, large-capitalization stocks were supposed to wrest control of the market from small-company shares, as often happens when stock market rallies mature.
 Yet that didn't necessarily happen this spring. While large-cap growth stock funds posted solid gains of 2.8 percent, small-cap growth funds did even better, climbing 4.1 percent on average, according to Morningstar. Among value-oriented funds, those that focus on large stocks advanced 1.3 percent while small-company funds surged 3 percent. 
 Heading into the third quarter, mutual fund managers and market strategists were again predicting large-cap outperformance. 
 Another assumption entering the quarter was that international stock funds were supposed to beat domestic portfolios, as the dollar was expected to weaken against the euro. But political uncertainties in Europe, caused in part by the rejection of the European constitution by French and Dutch voters, strengthened the dollar. In fact, the dollar gained 7 percent against the euro in the quarter and 11 percent in the first half of the year. 
 The dollar's unexpected climb reduced the value of foreign holdings by domestic fund investors. The average European stock fund, for example, fell 0.5 percent in the quarter, though international stock funds over all still managed gains of nearly 0.4 percent. 
 ''The dollar rallied when it wasn't supposed to,'' said Russel Kinnel, Morningstar's director of mutual fund research. ''That was a bit of a surprise.''
 An even bigger surprise, he added, was that ''bonds rallied when they weren't supposed to.''
 Heading into the quarter, one of Wall Street's biggest assumptions was that stocks would beat bonds. Long-term interest rates were expected to climb, reducing the underlying value of older bonds in fixed-income mutual funds and giving equities an advantage.
 But despite two additional increases in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve Board in the second quarter, yields on 10-year Treasury securities actually fell, to 3.94 percent at the end of June from 4.50 percent at the end of March. (Since the quarter ended, those yields have moved back up to around 4 percent.)
 As a result, the average taxable bond fund gained 2.1 percent in the quarter and was up 6.6 percent over the 12 months through June. Long-term government bond funds also did well, returning 5.8 percent in the quarter. That brought their 12-month gains to 14 percent. 
 So much for the end of the bull market in bonds. A growing number of market analysts say investors could be in store for a sustained period of historically low long-term interest rates.
 Consider William H. Gross, managing director of Pimco, the asset management firm based in Newport Beach, Calif. While Mr. Gross, who manages the Pimco Total Return bond fund, says it's a ''slam dunk'' that the Fed will increase short-term rates at least once more in the next few months, he thinks that 10-year Treasury yields will remain stuck in the 3 percent to 4 percent range for the next few years.
 The domestic economy is slowing, and Mr. Gross says he thinks the federal government has exhausted the traditional tools to fuel faster growth, such as further tax cuts. 
 The global appetite for Treasury securities, meanwhile, especially from China and other Asian nations, continues to grow, he said. ''There's a new bully on the block and that's the Asian buyer of Treasuries,'' Mr. Gross said. ''Unless you can get on the right side of the bully, you're going to get beaten up.''
 Because of his forecast for low-but-stable long-term rates, Mr. Gross is now recommending a strategy that few thought safe at the start of the year. He says bond investors should gravitate toward longer-maturity bonds as opposed to short-term issues, which are typically regarded as safer plays in an environment of rising rates.
 ''It's a new reality,'' Mr. Gross said. ''Under these circumstances, a bond holder should be thinking about being long duration as opposed to having a shorter duration.'' 
 As for the broad investment landscape, he says he believes investors should brace themselves for a sustained period of modest, if not mediocre, gains in both the stock and bond markets, with total returns in the mid-single digits.
 Is there anything on the horizon that could shake the markets out of their doldrums in the second half of the year?
 Mr. Doll of Merrill Lynch said the equity markets were likely to vacillate until investors had a clearer sense of when the Fed might stop tightening monetary policy. ''All eyes are on the Fed,'' he said, ''and how far they are going to go and how long it's going to take them to get there.'' 
 He says he believes that the Fed will probably stop once the federal funds rate, which banks charge one another on overnight loans, rises to 3.5 percent. That would imply just one more rate increase, since that target rate is now at 3.25 percent. But others still believe the Fed will continue raising rates to 4 percent, or higher. 
 Whatever level the rate reaches, conventional wisdom says that when the Fed stops tightening, a rally could ensue in the stock markets, maybe one that is similar to the year-end rallies of 2003 and 2004.
 But history shows that periods immediately after the end of Fed rate increases aren't always rosy. Although stocks went on a tear after the Fed stopped raising rates in 1989 and 1995, equities have more typically lost ground during such times. Ned Davis Research studied Fed tightening cycles back to 1920 and found that the Dow Jones industrial average was down 4.9 percent, on average, six months after the Fed stopped raising rates. A full year after the end of rate increases, stocks were typically down 3.9 percent.
 If history plays out, investors face ample risks well into 2006.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); FUTURES (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Industry Profiles; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (53%) Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



203 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: It Didn't Start on 9/11

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU. 
Eric Lichtblau covers the Justice Department and terrorism issues for The Times.

 BODY:

BLIND SPOT
The Secret History
of American Counterterrorism.
By Timothy Naftali.
399 pp. Basic Books. $26.

PREVENTING SURPRISE ATTACKS
Intelligence Reform
in the Wake of 9/11.
By Richard A. Posner.
214 pp. Hoover Institution/
Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. $18.95.
 THE notion that Sept. 11 changed everything has become deeply ingrained in the American psyche. Indeed, when Steven Brill gave his 2003 book on post-9/11 America a single-word title -- After'' -- everyone knew instantly what he meant. 
 Still, the idea of a pre- and post-9/11 obscures a grim reality: many of the quandaries now confronting the United States -- how to identify and defeat terrorists, how to protect the nation's borders and reduce its vulnerabilities, how to preserve our freedoms while ensuring our safety -- had been debated for decades at lower decibels. The problem is that few were paying much attention.
 Two new books, ''Blind Spot: The Secret History of American Counterterrorism,'' by Timothy Naftali, and ''Preventing Surprise Attacks: Intelligence Reform in the Wake of 9/11,'' by Richard A. Posner, remind us of something we are always told: those who forget history are doomed to repeat it. With widely differing results, both authors seek to draw lessons for the future from the long history of anti-American terrorism. 
 Naftali, an associate professor at the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia, demonstrates that terrorists have been a constant and menacing threat throughout much of America's recent past -- from Puerto Rican independence seekers in the 1950's to Cuban hijackers in the 1960's to Middle Eastern militants in the 1970's and beyond. But policy makers were often indifferent to these threats, or ineffective in confronting them. The occasional hijacking or the sporadic burst of violence was seen as an accepted price of governing in the modern era. Speaking of the massacre of the Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics and other atrocities, Naftali writes that terrorism was ''the annoying little gnat that buzzed around the superpower while it was trying to handle truly dangerous matters.''
 He devotes only a small chapter to the 9/11 attacks themselves -- and it will seem cursory to anyone who has read the 9/11 commission report. (This book, in fact, grew out of research and interviews that Naftali did for the commission on the history of early counterterrorism.) The real punch of ''Blind Spot'' comes in Naftali's descriptions of the advances, retreats and inertia of presidential administrations and counterterrorism officials since World War II. And in an understated style, he points out the haunting similarities between the events surrounding 9/11 and the attacks and policy debates from previous generations. 
 There was, for instance, the Sunday in September 1970 when Palestinian terrorists attempted the simultaneous hijacking of four airliners flying from Europe to New York. All the hostages were eventually released, but it was ''a feat not replicated by a terrorist organization until September 2001,'' Naftali writes.
 There were the constant and often unresolved debates beginning in the 1970's over issues that ring familiar today: whether American officials should seek merely to gather intelligence on terrorists or engage in more aggressive law enforcement and military activities to prevent attacks; whether officials should negotiate with terrorists or simply confront them; whether the government should force airlines to upgrade security at the expense of passenger convenience and profit margins; and even whether certain militant groups should be defined as terrorists in the first place.
 There was the warning in 1976 by Ronald Reagan, then a presidential candidate, about the danger of allowing civil-rights-minded ''bleeding hearts'' to dismantle intelligence operations against domestic terrorists, a warning that foreshadowed similar statements a quarter-century later by George W. Bush and his first attorney general, John Ashcroft. 
 There was the ambitious attempt by the Reagan administration in 1984, following the bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut and other attacks, to launch a comprehensive assault that would constitute ''taking the fight to the terrorists.'' But four proposed antiterrorism measures got bogged down in Congress, and the C.I.A. resisted structural changes.
 And long before the Bush administration's efforts to link Saddam Hussein to Al Qaeda, the Reagan White House, looking through a cold-war-era lens, attempted to place much of the blame for terrorism on the Soviet Union.
 For most of the three decades before 9/11, Naftali writes, American officials failed to treat terrorism as a strategic threat. But ''it is a tactic that will be used again and again,'' and, he concludes, it is essential that we maintain ''a long-term capability to deal with terrorism at home as well as abroad.''
 Like ''Blind Spot,'' Richard Posner's ''Preventing Surprise Attacks'' grew out of the 9/11 commission. A federal judge in Chicago, a law professor and a prolific author, Posner wrote an extensive analysis of the commission report for The New York Times Book Review last August. That piece -- generally critical of the commission's work -- forms the basis of this book.
 Unfortunately, Posner largely mimics his earlier analysis, adding little beyond heft. His central thesis is that some terrorist attacks, 9/11 among them, may simply be unpreventable and that the commission's rush to fix the system through what Posner sees as an overly centralized intelligence apparatus appears misguided, perhaps even counterproductive. Despite the public reaction after 9/11, he writes, ''our intelligence system may not be broken after all.'' 
 Like Naftali, Posner examines past attacks to draw lessons for future policy. But oddly, the three episodes he treats in the greatest depth as examples of successful surprise attacks -- Pearl Harbor, the Tet offensive in Vietnam and the 1973 Yom Kippur attacks on Israel by Egypt and Syria -- were all military operations that do not fit the conventional definition of terrorism. They were carried out by foreign nations, not rogue groups like Al Qaeda or Hamas.
 Posner uses these episodes as the basis for an often impenetrable section full of formulas for anticipating and deterring terrorist attacks, with variables like the probability of an attack, the potential damage, economic cost and the public reaction. In fairness, he opens the section by advising that ''the mathless reader can read around it.'' But even the mathematically inclined may have difficulty wading through calculations like S = pa(d) + c(d) + (1 / p)w(p, d).
 IN the end, Posner settles into a simpler explanation: while surprise terrorist attacks may be deterred, and their impact blunted by measures like the stocking of vaccines to guard against bioterror attacks, they cannot be reliably prevented. 
 ''Preventing Surprise Attacks'' provides an at-times useful and contrarian view of the commission report. But by his own admission, Posner offers no real blueprint for how he thinks America's counterterrorism program could be improved. And in a book that lacks the taut writing or drama of the 9/11 report he is criticizing, he too often veers into diatribe. He attacks the politics, backgrounds, recommendations and even the unanimity of the 9/11 commissioners, and he challenges the expertise of victims' family members in influencing commission policy, calling their role in the process ''amateurism run wild.''
 Those without the time or mathematical proclivity are probably better advised to read the truncated version of the book he wrote for these pages last year. Better yet, if they haven't already done so, they might read the 9/11 report on which it is based.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WRITERS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); OLYMPICS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: ROWMAN & LITTLEFIELD PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Eric Lichtblau; Timothy Naftali; Richard A Posner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



204 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Freebooters of Industry

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LIND. 
Michael Lind is the Whitehead senior fellow at the New America Foundation in Washington.

 BODY:

HOT PROPERTY
The Stealing of Ideas
in an Age of Globalization.
By Pat Choate.
352 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
 IN recent years a series of reports have provided evidence about the erosion of America's scientific and industrial base. But ''strikingly,'' as Pat Choate observes in ''Hot Property: The Stealing of Ideas in an Age of Globalization,'' ''the massive theft of U.S.-owned intellectual properties as a contributing cause to America's technological decline has been almost totally overlooked in these reports.'' In this timely and important book, Choate sounds the alarm about the threat posed by such piracy.
 Choate, who is best known as Ross Perot's vice-presidential candidate in 1996, has sounded alarms before. When he published ''Agents of Influence,'' his study of Washington lobbyists funded by the Japanese government and Japanese corporations, he was denounced as a Japan-basher. Today the assertion that Japan has practiced result-oriented mercantilism rather than free trade for decades is rarely disputed. When Choate, like Perot, warned that as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement, American corporations would move their factories to Mexico to take advantage of low labor costs, he was portrayed as a Mexico-basher. Bill Clinton and Al Gore argued that Mexico would be a market for American manufactured goods. Instead, according to the economist Charles McMillion: ''The large U.S. net export losses to Mexico since Nafta are concentrated in autos, machinery, electronics, apparel and furniture. U.S. net export gains are largely in agribusiness and bulk commodities such as cereals and organic chemicals.'' Score two out of two for Choate.
 In his latest campaign, Choate is likely to find allies in the business community -- and opponents among some champions of developing nations, as well as some libertarians who argue for weakening or eliminating intellectual property rights. Choate quotes the definition of ''copyright industries'' used by the International Intellectual Property Alliance: ''music and book publishing, radio and television broadcasting, cable television, newspapers and periodicals, records and tapes, motion pictures, theatrical productions, advertising, computer software and data processing'' -- to which others, like pharmaceuticals, can be added. According to the intellectual property alliance, ''worldwide digital piracy costs America's copyright industry $20 billion to $22 billion annually, and that approximation excludes illegal Internet downloads.'' 
 Patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are useless if governments do not enforce them against thieves. However, officials in many developing nations are more concerned about promoting national economic growth by disseminating know-how than with protecting the rights of foreigners. Choate tells the story of Haima, a Chinese corporation that is the largest woven-carpet manufacturer in Asia. After Milliken & Company, the largest private textile company in the United States, lost a Chinese contract to Haima, ''Milliken personnel obtained a copy of Haima's 1999 carpet catalog. It featured 16 copyrighted Milliken designs.'' Although an American court ordered Haima to pay Milliken more than $4 million, the American company has been unable to collect.
 Choate acknowledges that as an industrializing nation in the 19th century the United States engaged in many of the practices that it condemns today, including industrial espionage. He recounts the tales of Samuel Slater, who brought secret British spinning machine technology to the United States, and Francis Cabot Lowell, a Boston patrician who used his photographic memory to steal the trade secrets of British textile manufacturers. ''The most important feature of the Patent Act of 1793,'' Choate writes, ''was what it did not provide: protections for foreign inventors. Only American citizens were eligible for a U.S. patent. Thus, any American could bring a foreign innovation to the United States and commercialize the idea, all with total legal immunity.'' In later generations, Germany and Japan similarly manipulated intellectual property rights.
 In the 1990's, concern about the theft of intellectual property inspired the United States to promote the Trade Related Intellectual Property System. ''Ironically,'' Choate observes, ''after leading the long, historic fight to put these global protections into place, Washington is now strangely unwilling to use them.'' He notes that ''since June 2000, the U.S. has not filed a single intellectual property case at the World Trade Organization.''
 Choate contrasts the attention that the Clinton administration paid to these issues with the lack of interest the Bush administration has displayed. The difference may be one of constituencies. ''Copyright industries'' like the movie and technology sectors provide much of the financial support for the Democratic Party, and they are far more threatened by intellectual property violations than are the commodity producers of the Republican red states. This interpretation finds support in Choate's data on the World Trade Organization: ''Overall, the Bush administration filed only 12 cases with the W.T.O. during its first four years in office. Six of those dealt with foreign impediments to U.S. agricultural exports -- beef, rice, genetically enhanced foods, corn, wheat, cheeses, dairy products and apples.'' 
 Choate says that while industrializing countries may benefit from piracy, the world as a whole loses. ''Piracy and counterfeiting impede innovation: thieves do not invest in research, design, production, development or advertising. . . . The result is fewer new medicines, fewer advances in science, fewer new products, fewer new music CD's, fewer new movies, less new software and higher prices for whatever is created.'' Everyone is harmed, either directly or indirectly, ''when thieves steal from Microsoft and Disney.'' And, he concludes, ''What is missing is the will of U.S. political leaders to confront those who are stealing U.S.-owned intellectual properties and with them the future of the American people.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRADEMARKS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COPYRIGHT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); BOOK PUBLISHING (74%); ONLINE PIRACY (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LITERATURE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LOBBYING (73%); INTERNET CRIME (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); AGRICULTURE (63%); PATENTS (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (50%); FLOORING (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: MILLIKEN & CO INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (60%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (60%); SIC2211 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, COTTON (60%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); AL GORE (55%) Michael Lind; Pat Choate

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



205 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Customizing the Cookie Cutter

BYLINE: By DEBRA MORGENSTERN KATZ

 BODY:
ACROSS Long Island, the post-World War II split-level houses, the ranches and the development colonials, each looking just like the neighbor's, are undergoing makeovers that are changing the look of the Island's tract house developments. 
 In previous generations, a family that needed more space would add a room that matched the existing house. Today, homeowners often change the exterior to give it a new architectural stamp, but frequently with design elements from earlier eras.
 ''They're looking for older details that went away in the postwar development of Long Island,'' said Jim Smiros, an architect with Smiros & Smiros in Glen Cove. ''They're trying to bring some of that character back to their homes.''
 Brenda and Glenn Cummins of Rockville Centre decided they needed a bigger kitchen and more bedrooms in their 41-year-old two-story high ranch because they have four children. They also knew that the windows did not work well and that the siding was old, so they did not stop at the interior work. They completely redesigned the exterior so there is no longer any sign of a high ranch; the house looks more like a Dutch colonial. 
 ''My parents thought we were nuts,'' said Ms. Cummins, whose family moved out of the house for three months last year while it was renovated.
 The Cumminses' architect, Bruce Spenadel, who is based in Great Neck, said at least 90 percent of his residential projects now include redesigning the exterior; that percentage has doubled in the last decade. Other architects said more than 80 percent of their clients now want to make the outside of their houses look more individual. 
 An important-looking front entry is the No.1 detail that homeowners ask for, Mr. Spenadel said. Porches and gabled roof lines are popular requests, as are natural materials like cedar shingles, copper gutters and wood crown moldings. 
 Plenty of renovation is going on. Although towns do not keep separate statistics on exterior design changes, more-general statistics show there have been significant increases in home remodeling in recent years. 
 In Nassau County, the number of residential remodeling permits issued over the last four years increased by about 30 percent. In the Town of Hempstead, remodeling permits jumped to 4,029 last year from 3,027 in 2000. In North Hempstead, 470 permits were issued in 2000 and 604 last year. In Oyster Bay, 1,339 permits were granted in 2000 and 1,796 last year. 
 Kate Murray, the supervisor for the Town of Hempstead, said permit requests have increased so much that revenues from the permit fees have been ''off the charts.'' 
 In Hempstead, the remodeling permits -- which typically cost $100 for the first $1,000 of construction plus $12 for each additional $1,000 -- brought in almost $2 million for the town last year. 
 ''It's been sort of an explosion in our building department,'' she said.
 In Suffolk County, the Town of Islip reported a 62 percent increase in remodeling permits, to 1,620 last year from 999 in 2000. The Town of Huntington had its biggest year ever in 2003, with 966 permits granted compared with 773 in 2001. It had a drop last year to 796, but town officials said permits issued this year were running ahead of last year. The Town of Brookhaven issued 4,895 permits last year, compared with 3,520 in 2001. 
 Architects cited several reasons for the increases. 
 ''The housing stock on Long Island is at an age when it needs renovation,'' said Mr. Smiros, the Glen Cove architect. ''While they're at it, people have decided they might as well personalize it.''
 Mr. Spenadel said the continuing rise in house prices was making moving up difficult and remodeling more attractive. ''My clients are saying, 'I looked around, I really wanted to make the jump to the next level home, but I just can't swing it,''' he said. Instead, they are turning their house into their dream home.
 The idea to redesign the exterior sometimes comes at the architect's suggestion. Mr. Spenadel showed the Cumminses several possibilities. 
 ''I had no idea what I wanted,'' Ms. Cummins said. The final design includes a gambrel roof, which has two slopes on each side, the lower slope steeper than the upper. ''My kids call it a farmhouse,'' she said. ''I like it because there are not that many houses around here with that kind of roofline.'' 
 Sometimes the idea comes from the homeowners. For Bob and Maryanne Pedersen, it began with siding that needed to be replaced, but then ''it just kind of snowballed,'' said Mrs. Pedersen, who lives next door to the Cumminses in Rockville Centre. The Pedersens hired the same architect, Mr. Spenadel, but were not looking to expand. They wanted to create ''a nice presentation'' on the outside, Mrs. Pedersen said. 
 ''We wanted to give the house a feeling of more substance,'' she said.
 Mr. Pedersen searched online for exterior redesigns for split-level houses and handed the architect pictures of things they admired, like heavy white moldings and gabled rooflines.
 ''Then my husband and the architect worked for almost six, seven months, back and forth, to create what we really wanted,'' Mrs. Pedersen said. 
 The Pedersens brought out their foyer several feet to create a more dramatic entry, with six columns and an arch, and created a 20-foot-high barrel ceiling inside the foyer. Outside, they added several gables and prominent white molding and trims.
 A project that is only an exterior remodeling is not unusual anymore and has become more common in the last five years, said Harry Van Meter, a Garden City architect. An exterior remodeling may cost between $50,000 and $100,000, he said.
 ''We've had projects where the whole project was nothing more than redoing siding and changing the roofing,'' he said. ''I think people are looking for more curb appeal.'' 
 Mr. Smiros just finished redesigning the exterior of his own house in Oyster Bay, a colonial that was identical to a dozen others in his neighborhood; the new siding, windows, moldings and shutters changed it into a traditional New England Federal style.
 Rebecca and Mark Gunton of Huntington knew they needed more space after the birth of their third child, but they did not stop at a simple expansion. 
 ''We wanted to make the outside a bit more interesting, give it more character,'' she said. For her husband, she added, ''that was almost as important as the extra space.'' 
 The architect, Alex Latham of ADL III Architecture in Northport, worked with their contractor, Robert Pear of Huntington, and the original 1960's development colonial is nowhere to be found in the new exterior.
 Mr. Latham said he thought such architectural changes were good for the Long Island landscape. He said the lack of strong design that developed in post-World War II housing developments was a result of rapid low-cost mass production for returning G.I.'s and the lack of training in traditional design at architectural schools that were all stressing Modernism.
 ''They pared down the details to build houses in a very economical way,'' Mr. Latham said, leaving buyers with houses that looked the same. 
 ''I think that's a travesty,'' he said. ''It's boring, it's uncreative, it's a dumbing down of the aesthetic.'' 
 Mr. Latham said clients had become more savvy as a result of the increase in home design magazines and television shows like ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,'' which drastically renovated a St. James ranch house in March, and the HGTV series ''Curb Appeal.'' 
 ''They are much more educated and sophisticated and exposed to design,'' Mr. Latham said.
 That increasing sophistication has come with a willingness to spend. ''They definitely are spending more,'' Mr. Pear said. ''A lot of that is because construction costs themselves have risen dramatically.'' 
 It is also because with prices so high, there is more equity to pull out of a home, he said. And because the value of houses is much higher, the owners are not afraid to make costly improvements.
 The increased remodeling costs are also a result of what features homeowners are choosing. 
 ''The trend is more toward high-end desires,'' Mr. Pear said, with homeowners expecting expensive details like granite countertops in kitchens and crown moldings.
 In Nassau County, remodeling permits issued show increases per project. In Hempstead, homeowners spent nearly $59.1 million in 2000 and $135.4 million last year, with a 70 percent increase per job. In North Hempstead, estimated spending increased to $28 million last year from $16.8 million in 2000, about a 30 percent increase per project. In Oyster Bay, estimated spending increased $73.7 million last year from almost $47.6 million in 2000, about 15 percent per job. 
 Geoffrey Hoovis of Oceanside, who runs a contracting company called Built to Perfection, and his wife, Nancy, are renovating their raised ranch home, a project that began for extra space but ended up including an exterior redesign with a turret. 
 ''I wanted to do something different being that I'm in the field, something a little more elaborate,'' Mr. Hoovis said. He worked with an architect, David Massa of Port Washington. 
 Though the project is not finished, a neighbor down the block has hired Mr. Massa to put a turret on his house. Mr. Massa said he did not worry that a new sameness would develop as neighbors copy one another. 
 ''It'll be interpreted differently,'' he said. ''Because the architecture on the outside reflects what's going on inside, everyone has a different program for what they're trying to achieve.'' 

When It's Better to Just Start Over
 Geoffrey Hoovis, a contractor from Oceanside, says that when a homeowner wants very extensive renovations to a house, it may cost less - as much as 30 percent less - to knock the house down and build anew instead. 
 That strategy does create other problems, though, like where to live during construction. It also invites more restrictions and intrusions from zoning boards and building inspectors, especially in incorporated villages, said Bruce Spenadel, an architect from Great Neck. 
 Officials treat some big projects that way even if much of the old house is to remain. The Town of Hempstead uses a 50-percent rule: if the dollar amount of the remodeling exceeds half the value of the house, the project is regulated as if it were new construction. A new certificate of occupancy is required, and codes for new homes must be followed. 
 Mr. Spenadel has his own 50 percent rule: If you are significantly changing more than half the structure, think about knocking it down instead.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday about the Pedersen and Cummins families of Rockville Centre and their neighboring newly renovated homes, with an article about remodeling on Long Island, omitted the identity of the man standing between the families, wearing a suit. He was Bruce Spenadel, their architect. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: PRESTO CHANGO -- Jim Smiros, with his son, Dean, redesigned the exterior of his colonial in Oyster Bay, turning it into a traditional New England Federal style. (Large photo, Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The Guntons went from plain, above, to pizazz. (Photo by Courtesy ADL III Architecture)
 The Pedersens, left, and the Cumminses did side-by-side remodels in Rockville Centre. (Photos by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING PERMITS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); STATISTICS (69%); ROOFING MATERIALS (67%); CITY LIFE (66%) Home Repairs and Improvements

PERSON: Debra Morgenstern Katz

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



206 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: Where the Living Is Easier

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
FROM the back balcony of their 1876 Victorian on North Street in the historic district of Litchfield, H. Sean Mathis, an investment banker, and his wife, Florence de Dampierre, an author and designer who grew up in Paris, look east across their five acres and see their pool house and greenhouse beyond a stand of grand spruces. 
 Their daughter, 7, motors by, laughing and calling out as she helps a landscaper steer a tractor across the yard.
''Next she'll want to learn to drive,'' says Mr. Mathis, sitting at an afternoon table -- French, 19th century -- where iced coffee in glass goblets and sweet and airy macaroons have been set out for friends just in for the weekend from Rye, N.Y.
 A few miles away, from the back deck of the small frame cottage on North Shore Road that he has spent three decades winterizing, Joe Lanza looks south beyond a sunlit swamp maple, away from the public boat launch and the campground, and sips white wine with a neighbor as the evening breeze ripples Bantam Lake. 
 The hot tub remains under cover, and no Jet Skis are out this Thursday evening to rile his collie, Ben. The weekenders have yet to invade.
 ''Look out there, they're huge,'' Mr. Lanza said, pointing at houses much larger than his across the lake, new homes built -- by New Yorkers, he presumes -- in place of several smaller houses on the lake's south shore. 
 Mr. Lanza came from Waterbury and owns a cottage a few miles from the center of town. Mr. Mathis and Ms. de Dampierre came from New York and own a showcase house a short walk from the green. 
 But while distance and demographics may separate them, they have fulfilled the same ambition, one that is increasingly common among those who come to Litchfield: They wanted to be here more often, not just on weekends, not just in summer, not just part time, and they have found a way to do it.
 ''Our hearts are here,'' said Ms. de Dampierre. 
 So are their fingerprints. Just as people have created new, more-invested lives for themselves here, they have created a new Litchfield. The once sleepy summer escape is now a sophisticated self-contained destination, where social and cultural options are available year round, from antiques to theater to restaurants, and where outsiders evolve into locals by sending their kids to local schools, stretching their social realms beyond their circles in the city and importing the rest of the world through the Internet.
 The town population no longer shifts significantly with the seasons. Residents with long memories say there are distinctive measures of change.
 ''One of the big jobs was turning the water off and turning the water on at all of the big houses,'' said Martin Moraghan, 89, whose father once ran a grocery store in town.
 New York City, still the economic engine that makes the new Litchfield possible, is no longer regarded as necessary to serve other needs, at least not for some.
 ''They may have thought that it was, but it quickly changes when you've got three kids or you want to have two or three,'' said John B. Fahey Jr., a real estate broker who has worked in the area since 1970.
 Convenience is not Litchfield's allure. Isolated from major highways and commuter rail, it is a two-hour trip to New York.
 ''This area is driven by lifestyle, not by location and proximity to an airport,'' Mr. Fahey said.
 Another longtime real estate broker, Edward J. Murphy Jr., said of the newcomers, ''They want a population that's well educated and very cosmopolitan and sophisticated, and No.2, they want peace and quiet and rural country charm.''
 Jeff Savage, 64, an actor who sells tiger maple drop-leaf tables with five-figure price tags at Jeffrey Tillou Antiques on West Street, said, ''You've got all this stuff going on here, yet you go to sleep at night and it's quiet.''
 Litchfield has been a summer destination since early in the 20th century, when industrialization had largely passed it by and vacationers took to its well-preserved rural New England aesthetic, set atop the hills east of the Housatonic River. Cottages, often without heat or insulation, were once abundant. 
 And buyers still come just for weekends and summers. Richard M. Lynn Jr., planning director for the Litchfield Hills Council of Elected Officials, cited census figures showing that the number of seasonal homes increased to 5.5 percent of all housing units in 2000, compared with 3.9 percent in 1990. 
 Yet the census also shows that owner-occupied housing units nudged up to 78.5 percent from 76.5 percent, from 1990 to 2000. And some real-estate agents, laborers and locals say that in the last several years Litchfield has seen a gentle shift, with affluent younger buyers from New York often replacing the aging executives who bought summer homes and eventually turned them into year-round retirement homes. 
 At the same time, residents from Fairfield County have come north as that area has become congested and expensive, either buying second homes or moving altogether. Several people said the terrorist attacks of 2001 had also played a role in driving people from New York toward Litchfield.
 In the process, housing prices have soared, traffic has increased and an inevitable -- and, some say, ironic -- aversion to more change has taken hold. 
 ''There tends to be considerable local resistance to even widening any state roads,'' Mr. Lynn said. ''It sounds strange, but I think that planners in the area will be considered successful if the area looks pretty much the same 50 years from now as it does today.''
 Mr. Lynn noted that the town's population actually declined slightly from 1990 to 2000, to 8,316 from 8,365, but he said it has increased somewhat in the five years since the last census. He said the town averaged an increase of about 67 people a year from 1950 to 2000.
 While cultural change has not necessarily meant population growth in Litchfield, the differences between old and new are obvious. Beyond the buzz over properties on the market for $25 million or more, middle-class housing has jumped more than 50 percent, to a median sale price of about $272,000 in 2004 from $181,000 in 2000, Mr. Lynn said.
 And the historic section of West Street, once a sturdy main strip, is now an elite array of restaurants, clothing shops, real estate agencies and antiques shops. The old stone state courthouse is the only building on the block whose daily business seems immune to gentrification.
 ''Only people from New York City can afford to shop there, is what I heard,'' John Winslow, a metal worker and a Litchfield native, said of the town center.
 Mr. Moraghan, a former group life insurance salesman, moved into his four-bedroom shingled cottage on Prospect Street about 50 years ago, winterizing it by adding insulation and a concrete floor, he said.
 Mr. Moraghan, who reads the sports page most days at the Oliver Wolcott Library, said: ''I have sort of lost touch when I go to the post office and the library. I don't know any people, but my wife knows them all. She belongs to garden clubs and everything.''
 His house, tidy in late June, with verdant bursts of hostas, is dwarfed by those of his neighbors, including television executives and prominent antiques dealers.
 ''I hope the kids will get a good price for it,'' Mr. Moraghan said about his home. ''It's the location, not the house.''
 Selling may be one concern for children who grew up in Litchfield. Staying is another.
 Krista Mahan, 19, grew up in Litchfield and, after initially going to college in Virginia, decided she missed home so much she came back. Now she attends Central Connecticut State University in New Britain and works at Bohemian Pizza, several blocks down West Street from the town center.
 She said when she told her parents she wanted to live in Litchfield after college, ''They said, 'Well, you better get a good job because you're not going to be able to afford to live here.'''
 Ms. Mahan said she also feels the changes in Litchfield on another front, notably from New Yorkers who she said demand a level of service common in Manhattan, perhaps, but not off a country road in Connecticut.
 ''They expect too much,'' she said. ''This is just a little pizza restaurant.''
 Ms. de Dampierre, the author and designer, prefers the pace in Litchfield to New York. She spends about five nights a week here, looking after her daughter and 15-year-old son, who attends private school and is active in soccer. Her husband usually spends four nights here, driving into the city on Monday mornings, heading for their apartment on the Upper East Side, after watching ''Mystery!'' on public television the night before.
 ''We made a very clear decision when our son was starting kindergarten,'' Ms. de Dampierre said of the couple's decision to tilt their lives toward Litchfield. ''It turned out very good.''
 They bought the house in 1999 and have since renovated it, including adding cheetah-print carpeting in the foyer, building the rear balcony and installing wireless Internet access that stretches to the pool house they recently replaced. 
 The couple socializes with neighbors, including the owners of the West Street Grill, a popular restaurant on West Street known for its food and glamorous clients.
 ''It's sophisticated, there's lots of wonderful people and it's not crowded,'' Mr. Mathis said. ''And compared to Greenwich, compared to the Hamptons, it's cheap. 
 ''I haven't been in New York on a Saturday, except under duress, for 25 years,'' he added. ''It's seamless when I'm sitting here.''

THE WEEKENDERS
Articles in this series will periodically report on ways in which second-home owners are changing small towns.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ANTI-HUSTLE AND BUSTLE -- In Litchfield, the pace is slower than in, say, New York City, and it sometimes includes sunbathing on the town green.
Joe Lanza, right, with his parents, Charlie and Connie Lanza, owns a cottage on Bantam Lake in Litchfield County. He says he knows when the weekenders have arrived. (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Florence de Dampierre, an author and designer who grew up in Paris, landed in Litchfield from New York. Her home, background, includes the pool house, right, on five acres.
The West Street Grill is known for its food and glamorous clients.
Jeff Savage, an actor, says, there is much happening, ''yet you go to sleep at night and it's quiet.'' (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
Whether for a weekender or full-timer, the Litchfield town green provides the serenity of a slower pace
 Edward J. Murphy Jr., a real estate broker, says cosmopolitan, and charm, sells. (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LAKES (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); TRENDS (72%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%) Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends; Travel and Vacations; Housing

COMPANY: PARIS LOOK (58%)

PERSON: William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%) Litchfield County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



207 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: The Great Mango War Flares Once More

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
Adam Smith probably never tasted a mango. But Smith, the 18th-century Scottish economist, would surely recognize his theories of supply and demand at work on the streets of Jackson Heights, Queens, one heart of the city's fiercely competitive mango market. 
 The price of mangoes can fluctuate wildly. Buy them at Whole Foods Market in Union Square, and they're $1.98 apiece. But if you go to Jackson Heights and buy them in bulk at the grocery stores in the bustling South Asian business district around 74th Street and 37th Avenue, the price drops to 50 cents or less. (Even that is no bargain to immigrant families from South Asia and the Caribbean, many of whom grew up with mango trees in their backyards.) 
Summer is, of course, mango season, and every summer a mango price war rages in the community. This year the battles have been particularly intense, with profit margins for some vendors driven down to virtually nothing.
 In this neighborhood, where cheap mangoes attract shoppers from as far as Connecticut and New Jersey, prices shift weekly, even daily. On a recent afternoon at the Modi Khana market near 72nd Street and 37th Avenue, mangoes were $5 for a crate of 10, almost a rock-bottom price. ''I don't make money,'' said the manager, Arora Arora. ''Just make the happy customers.''
 Abida Aleem, a teacher from Garden City, in Nassau County, was in Modi Khana that afternoon shopping with her husband and 11 year-old son, Asim. Quietly, Ms. Aleem was switching the best mangoes from one crate to another, even trying to slip in an 11th from another crate for her mango-addicted son.
 Further complicating the picture is that Patel Brothers, an Indian market on 74th Street that is traditionally the neighborhood's main vendor of low-priced mangoes, has raised its prices to $9 for a carton of a dozen.
 As if underscoring Patel's commitment to mangoes, the market employs a staff member, Jadeja Mahendra, whose sole job is supervising outdoor mango sales. Mr. Mahendra, a middle-aged Indian immigrant with a gentle sales pitch, has been hawking mangoes for years. ''Sweet mangoes, Kent mangoes,'' he intoned to passers-by in a thick Gujarati accent, scolding those who tried to switch mangoes from one box to the other in search of a perfect collection of fruit.
 But a dozen mangoes for $9 is almost double what is charged at Modi Khana. Harsad Patel, Mr. Mahendra's boss, explained the problem. ''The crop is short, in Mexico,'' Mr. Patel said. ''One crop comes from the east, one crop comes from the west, and they are late on the West Coast.'' He promised that his price would soon sink back to $6 a case. SETH KUGEL


GRAPHIC: Photo: How much for that mango? It doesn't matter
 the price just changed. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); RETAILERS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (58%) Mangoes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (58%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (90%) Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (57%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



208 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Will Storm And Attacks Weigh on Consumers?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE University of Michigan's consumer confidence report, scheduled to be released on Friday, could provide a glimpse of the impact of last week's London bombings on consumer sentiment. 
The survey for the preliminary July report will continue until Thursday, according to Richard T. Curtin, the director of the survey. He said it included an open-ended question that will allow him to determine what kind of effect on sentiment -- if any -- the bombings actually had. He also said that consumer attitudes could be affected by Hurricane Dennis, the first storm of this season to reach hurricane status. Wall Street forecasters are predicting that the preliminary July index will be 95, down from the final June reading of 96, according to Bloomberg.

DATA WATCH -- Before that report on consumer confidence, investors and analysts will have already digested new data on inflation and retail sales in June, and on the trade deficit for May. The industrial production report for June comes out on Friday, too.
 The price data are expected to be relatively restrained, and retail sales and industrial production are predicted to be healthy. Any positive investor reaction to those bits of news could be undermined by fear that the price of crude oil will be stuck in the high $50's or low $60's for some time -- as well as by concerns about terrorism.
 The Consumer Price Index, due Tuesday, is expected to have risen 0.2 percent in June. In addition, the Producer Price Index for finished goods, due Wednesday, is expected to have jumped 0.4 percent. 
 But the gains in the core indexes, excluding increases for food and energy, are expected to be contained, with the core C.P.I. up 0.2 percent and the core P.P.I. up 0.1 percent. 
 Retail sales are forecast to have increased 1 percent last month, after a 0.5 percent decline in May. That would be the second-largest monthly increase this year.
 Industrial production for June is expected to have climbed 0.4 percent, the same as in May. 
 Forecasters expect that the May trade deficit, due Wednesday, will also be the same as it was the previous month, with the red ink totaling $57 billion.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks consumer confidence from 2004 through estimated 2005.Graph tracks monthly change in Consumer Price Index from 2004 through estimated 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); BOMBINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); TERRORISM (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); HURRICANES (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%) United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



209 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2184 words

HEADLINE: Turning Point

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
OUTSIDE the new Coach outlet store -- where $250 handbags are marked down as much as $100 -- stands a decorative pole ready to display the photographs of Miss Americas 2010 through 2019, a bit of optimism that may seem misplaced these days.
 Along Michigan Avenue, where names like Mikasa, Guess?, Geoffrey Beene and Brooks Brothers now attract hordes of people wielding credit cards, times past are quickly being forgotten.
Few patrons of The Walk -- the outlet mall with the Coach store that opened here last spring -- stop to look at photographs of the toothy, smiling Miss Americas from the 1920's to the present that adorn the many poles. And fewer still stop to think about or even remember when this stretch of Michigan Avenue from Pacific to Baltic Avenues was a collection of boarded-up storefronts where only drugs were bought and sold.
 These days, Coach bags have replaced nickel bags as the neighborhood's currency. 
 Yet in an odd and somewhat unexpected juxtaposition, Miss America's presence here is fading along with the city's nagging legacy of dilapidation and despair. Hotels and casinos are expanding and polishing their images to a high gloss, trendy shops are taking a chance on the newest Atlantic City, and A-list entertainers are putting the place back on their itineraries.
 The irony is that the transformation may come without the event the city has long clung to as evidence of its hard-earned respectability: the Miss America Pageant. 
 Last month, the pageant organization -- cut adrift by the major television networks as ratings continued to plummet -- announced that it had sold the television rights to Country Music Television, a part of the Viacom media empire, and that the date -- at least for this year's pageant -- would be moved from its traditional mid-September slot to January.
 But to many residents here, who for years have provided help, homes and hope to the 84-year-old pageant, what was not stated was as important as everything that was. It is still not known whether the January pageant will be held in Atlantic City or Nashville -- the home of Country Music Television -- or somewhere in between. 
 For now, some officials are quick to deny that Miss America will gather her tiaras and sashes and leave Atlantic City -- where the event was dreamed up by merchants in 1921 to extend the summer vacation season.
 Others have been quick to conclude that, if not this year, then soon enough, Nashville will be the new home of this time-worn icon.
 And at this point, how many people really care? 
 ''Maybe from mere perception by some people that moving Miss America could exacerbate Atlantic City as a loser, it is not a wonderful thing,'' said Joe Weinert, who covered the casino industry for The Press of Atlantic City and is now vice president of the Spectrum Gaming Group and managing editor of the Gaming Industry Observer. ''It is corny and campy, but it has been linked to Atlantic City inextricably for decades.''
 ''The economic impact of it would be minimal,'' Mr. Weinert said. ''The casino industry does not care for the event. It does nothing for their business. It does not bring big players into town. It brings in people who take up hotel rooms and do not gamble much at all.''
 Interestingly, Mr. Weinert's observation was shared by Leonard Horn, a lifelong resident of the area who was chairman of the Miss America Pageant from 1987 until he retired to Tennessee in 1998.
 ''The demographic for Miss America has changed, and it isn't great for casinos,'' said Mr. Horn, who was accused by some -- falsely, he insists -- of having had a hand in the negotiations with Country Music Television. ''It would be a nostalgic loss, but I don't think it would be an economic loss at all.
 It was 1977 when legalized casino gambling came to Atlantic City, and it initially was seen as the elixir that would cure what ailed the crumbling, corrupted resort -- bolstered by the nationally recognized pageant. But in truth, the pageant, in the heart of the Northeastern megalopolis, was a target of many critics who said that time had passed it by. 
 Casino operators -- with the exception of Donald Trump, who has provided floats for the pageant's parade along the Boardwalk -- were at best agnostic when it came to Miss America. And at worst, they resented the hundreds upon hundreds of hotel rooms inhabited for a week by people who did not buy a chip.
 Yet unlikely as it seems, even Arctic Avenue is beginning to shimmer with Geoffrey Beene and Calvin Klein. And the people who for years have worked to try to burnish the image of Atlantic City have awakened -- at least for now -- to the strangest phenomenon: they don't have to work nearly as hard to come up with good news.
 ''Our job is to fill the hotel rooms, and we just have more attractions to fill those rooms,'' said Jeffrey Vasser, executive director of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority. ''We have the House of Blues opening earlier this summer. We have more events on the Boardwalk and the new beach bars just off it.
 ''When the Borgata does its new expansion, that will be news,'' Mr. Vasser said. ''Then there is Trump, and with the Donald being Donald, that is sure to be noteworthy.''

Thriving Beyond Gambling
 These days, there are 15,000 hotel rooms in Atlantic City, an increase of 4,000 from just three years ago. And expansions at three casinos -- Harrah's, Trump Taj Mahal and the Borgata -- should add 3,000 more in the next three years. Mr. Vasser said about 90 percent of the rooms are occupied every night, even more on weekends, so there is no question that Atlantic City can absorb the new rooms. 
 Perhaps getting ahead of himself, Mr. Vasser said he even envisioned a time when far fewer of them would be comped -- the term for rooms, meals or other amenities given free to preferred customers -- and sold outright as they are in most noncasino resorts, a move that would show Atlantic City was thriving beyond casino gambling. Currently, about 70 percent of the room-nights in casino hotels are comped.
 At the Tropicana, according to Pamela J. Popielarski, the hotel-casino's president and general manager, fewer than half the room-nights will be comped this year, for now the only casino hotel in town below 50 percent.
 What led the hotel to make the move, Ms. Popielarski said, was the opening in April of the Quarter, a 200,000-square-foot space in the Tropicana with 40 upscale shops and restaurants, the largest such nongaming area in town.
 ''Las Vegas showed us that even in a casino town, people want to do more than just gamble,'' she said. ''It is a new customer base, younger and more active. We have to adapt to what they want, and they want to shop more, have nightclubs and restaurants, just do more things.''
 In recent years, Las Vegas has turned the tables, so to speak, on the traditional casino system. Atlantic City and Las Vegas each have 35 million visitors each year. And the cities are relatively close in gaming revenue, with Las Vegas earning $6 billion in 2004 and Atlantic City taking in $4.5 billion. 
 Yet in sharp contrast, visitors to Las Vegas spent $27 billion on nongaming activities in 2004, while that figure came to only $6 billion in Atlantic City -- twice what it was five years earlier, and what Atlantic City hopes to build on.
 ''It is based on the trajectory of the Borgata's success,'' said Curtis Bashaw, head of the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority. ''The Borgata was hipper and cooler and had more restaurants and clubs. It proved that people would come to Atlantic City to do other things but gamble.''
 It is Mr. Bashaw's hope that by drawing more visitors to Atlantic City, a more constructive cycle can gain a foothold. The redevelopment authority takes 1.5 percent of the casinos' gross revenue to provide grants for urban renewal projects, primarily but not exclusively in Atlantic County. 
 Since its creation in 1984, the agency has built 1,897 housing units in Atlantic City, and its current major project is $100a million revamping of the building facades along the Boardwalk. It had already provided seed money to refurbish Boardwalk Hall, the traditional home of Miss America, where little was taking place besides the pageant before the renovation three years ago, Mr. Bashaw said, making it more attractive as a site and lifting some of the burden from the pageant.
 ''It has become a stagnant attraction in the static view people had of the town,'' said Mr. Bashaw, who is also a hotel owner in Cape May. ''There are changes happening here, and I think what you see is just the tip of the iceberg. I don't want Miss America to leave, but if she does, we've had Elton John and Bette Midler sell out Boardwalk Hall, and there will be more of that in any case.''
 Nor was Mr. Bashaw the only one with an unsentimental view of the possibility that Miss America Pageant could leave Atlantic City.

'Its Time Has Passed'
 For 32 years, William and Petie Subin volunteered their time and their energy -- she as a chaperone and on television production and he as head of security and on the Miss America board -- before stopping last year.
 ''It was time to leave,'' said Mrs. Subin, who lives in nearby Margate. ''The pageant has changed. If it moves, it's not going to matter to anyone except the people in Atlantic City. You would go every year and it would be like a sorority or fraternity reunion. But it is like a flower growing. It blooms and then, at some point, it is over.''
 ''The casinos never supported it and now its time has passed,'' she said. ''There are a lot of things going on in Atlantic City and with Bobby Levy, a lifelong resident, coming in as mayor, people have a lot of hope.''
 But this being Atlantic City -- where dreams have often been left at the water's edge -- the optimism is tinged with a well-earned wariness. 
 Craig Calloway, the City Council president, supported Mr. Levy, the head of the city's emergency management office and beach patrol, in his victorious race against the incumbent mayor, Lorenzo Langford, in the Democratic primary, which is tantamount to winning the general election in this overwhelmingly Democratic city.
 While Mr. Calloway is confident of Atlantic City's eventual revival, he is concerned that it will not reach his primarily black and Hispanic constituency in the poorer sections of this city of 40,000 residents.
 ''Atlantic City is on the verge of some really great things and definitely a lot of opportunities for business and for the casinos,'' he said. ''We're in the process of making those good things happen, but we need it to come to the working poor people. That is what hasn't happened at this point.''
 As for Miss America, he dismissed the pageant as ''just an item of nostalgia.''
 ''You talk to people in my community about Miss America,'' Mr. Calloway said, ''and they are thinking about jobs and shopping and education. She's way down the road.''
 Mr. Horn, who was born in Atlantic City in 1936, has been down that road several times in the cyclical history of the resort and has his own views. 
 ''What is interesting to me is that there was a divergence in the ascendance of Miss America and Atlantic City,'' he said. ''Throughout the 1960's, the Miss America Pageant was at the height of its glory and Atlantic City was in its depths.'' 
 He recounted the story of the 1964 Democratic National Convention, which was supposed to be a shot in the arm for Atlantic City but instead was a disaster. 
 ''All of these reporters stayed in these rooms, and the hotels had not been spending money keeping them in good shape,'' he said. ''They wrote story after story about rats and whatnot and after that the city took a nosedive. But as Atlantic City was struggling then, Miss America was soaring.''

A Bumpy Upswing
 Yet in the last decade or so, Mr. Horn said, as Atlantic City enjoyed a bumpy upswing, Miss America lost its way.
 ''When I was there, I tried to move it to Disney World, which was owned by the same parent as ABC, which broadcast the show,'' he said. ''I knew there would be no support by the board, though. I thought of Nashville, too, but that wouldn't have happened. Maybe now is the time.''
 Cathy Burke, who owns the Irish Pub, just off the Boardwalk at St. James Place, hopes that that is not the case.
 ''I know it is old-fashioned, but Atlantic City still needs some of that,'' Ms. Burke said. ''I am in favor of The Walk and all the new retail, and that is fine. But if we get rid of Miss America, we will just be another casino town. Some traditions are worth keeping, and I think this is one of them.''
 To Mr. Weinert of the Gaming Industry Observer, changing the time of the pageant from September to January -- assuming the pageant remains in Atlantic City -- could perhaps be embraced by the casino owners.
 ''Mid-January is a slow time,'' he said. ''From a practical standpoint, that would give Atlantic City and the casino industry a highly visible off-season event. On the other hand, you can't parade down the Boardwalk then and see Miss America frolic in the surf.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: On the Boardwalk, construction is under way for an upscale mall that is set to open in 2006 across from Caesars. Top left, a couple on St. James Place, and a busy Boardwalk.
Outlet stores and new hotels are making their mark, but there are still remnants of the old. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 At The Walk, an outlet mall on Michigan Avenue that opened last spring, few patrons stop to look at the photographs of the smiling Miss Americas. (Photos by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times, top, and Associated Press)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); LUGGAGE & LEATHER GOODS STORES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); COUNTRY MUSIC (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%) Beauty Contests; Miss America; Relocation of Business; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: COACH INC (91%); VIACOM INC (53%)

TICKER: COH (NYSE) (91%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3151 LEATHER GLOVES & MITTENS (91%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%)

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlantic City (NJ); Nashville (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



210 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-11

North Korea Agrees to Talks
North Korea agreed to return to nuclear disarmament talks this month and pledged to discuss eliminating its nuclear-weapons program, according to Bush administration and North Korean officials. 1

Up to 50 Still Missing in London
Two days after London was rocked by four explosions leaving at least 49 dead, some 20 to 50 people remain unaccounted for by hospitals, coroners, friends and relatives. Crews are still trying to reach the wreckage of the subway car on the King's Cross line, where police have said there are many bodies still trapped in the rubble. 1

Long before bombings ripped through London, Britain had become a breeding ground for hate, fed by a militant version of Islam. For more than a decade, London has been a crossroads for would-be terrorists who used it as a home base. 1

British Police Revise Details
The British police revised critical details of Thursday's terrorist bombings, saying that three of the four bombs exploded ''almost simultaneously'' on subway trains rather than over a period of almost half an hour as initially announced. The fourth bomb struck about 57 minutes later. 8

Commando Reported Killed
After alleging for several days that it had custody of a missing American commando, the Taliban said they had beheaded him and dumped his body on a hillside in the country's northeast. The United States military said the search continued for the missing American. 10

Former Foes Join to Lead Sudan
Sudan elevated a former leader of the Sudan People's Liberation Army, John Garang, to the vice presidency of the government he had long tried to overthrow, a merging of onetime combatants into a single leadership that took Sudan another step away from decades of war. 11

NATIONAL 14-19

Florida Braces for Hurricane
Residents of Pensacola braced for the coming hurricane while stepping over debris from the last one. Hurricane Dennis is on an almost identical path as Ivan's, but since it could have Category 4 strength or stronger, citizens of Pensacola did their best to shore up again. 14

Estate Tax and Farmers
The number of farms on which estate tax is owed when the owners die has fallen by 82 percent since 2000, to just 300 farms, as Congress has more than doubled the threshold at which the tax applies, the Congressional Budget Office said in a report. 21

Effect of Base Closings
The Pentagon's plan to eliminate more than 30,000 jobs in Washington and Arlington, Va., part of its proposal to close dozens of military installations and bases around the country, would have a severe impact on the economy and intellectual resources of the region, lawmakers told military officials. 19

SCIENCE

Space Shuttle on Schedule
Barring weather delays or a mechanical problem, NASA's long wait will end on Wednesday, and the space shuttle Discovery will roar toward orbit once again. The launching comes two and a half years after the loss of the shuttle Columbia and its crew of seven astronauts. 18

NEW YORK/REGION 25-31

From Square 1 to a New Tower
After the police raised serious safety concerns about the original design of the Freedom Tower at ground zero, the team of architects and designers had to start from scratch and work under an intense deadline. 25

A Last Whiff of Fulton Market
The Fulton Fish Market in Manhattan is moving to a new, custom-made building in the Bronx. It should come as no surprise. From the beginning, New York questioned the location of this odoriferous trade. 1

OBITUARIES 23

Claude Simon
The French writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1985, he was 91. 23

Chess 29
Weather 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANES (88%); ESTATE TAX (86%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TALIBAN (74%); MILITARY BASES (73%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); SPACE SHUTTLE (61%); SPACECRAFT (61%); BUDGETS (60%); RELIGION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (68%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



211 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Mercedes Quality: Back on Track? 

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
COMPLAINTS about the quality and reliability of Mercedes-Benz products have dulled the company's once-sparkling image, but the automaker seems to be regaining some luster in closely watched surveys.
 While Mercedes once scored among the best automakers in quality, it started slipping in the late 1990's, eventually landing near the bottom in some studies. Many of the problems stemmed from glitches in new, technologically sophisticated electronics systems; such gremlins have also plagued other luxury automakers, including Mercedes's German competitors.
But the M-Class S.U.V. was another culprit, scoring poorly for a variety of reasons almost from the time it went on sale in 1997. 
 Mercedes quality ''was exceptionally good'' in the 1997 Initial Quality Study by J.D. Power & Associates, said Chance Parker, the firm's executive director for product research and analysis. ''Its score was significantly better than the industry average and would have been among the best nameplates at that time,'' Mr. Parker said. 
 The Initial Quality Study looks at problems that arise in the first 90 days after a car is purchased, and indicates the potential for longer-term trouble.
 Two years later, in the 1999 survey, the M-Class ranked last among luxury S.U.V.'s.
 After the M-Class provoked owner complaints and received low quality scores, Mercedes set out to improve processes at the new plant near Tuscaloosa, Ala., where it was built. In the 2004 study, the M-Class shot up to second place in its segment, but it fell back to seventh place (among 11 vehicles) this year.
 The 1998 M-Class was also largely responsible for a big blow to Mercedes's quality image in a different J.D. Power survey, the Vehicle Dependability Study, which looks at problems with vehicles over the previous three years. In the 2002 survey, the Mercedes brand dropped from 10th to 16th place, falling below the industry average for the first time since the study began in 1989. 
 Mr. Parker said there was evidence that Mercedes's overall quality was improving. The brand has been doing ''significantly better again,'' he said, in initial quality studies. 
 For instance, Mercedes tied Cadillac for fifth place among automotive brands in the Initial Quality Study this year (trailing Lexus, Jaguar, BMW and Buick). Mercedes had ranked 10th in 2004 and 15th in 2003.
 Mr. Parker said Mercedes's gains were bolstered by sharp improvements for the M-Class and the compact C-Class line. But he said it was too soon to reach conclusions about long-term dependability.
 Mercedes's initial-quality problems occurred mainly in two areas, J.D. Power says. First are ''traditional malfunctions and failures'' of features and controls like wipers, cruise control and navigation system. Second are craftsmanship issues like ill-fitting panels, squeaks and rattles.
 These are not catastrophic failures, but they disappoint owners. David Champion, the auto testing director for Consumer Reports, recalled an S-Class sedan that the magazine tested in 2003. A button that controlled functions related to the radio, navigation system and climate controls kept sticking and had to be pried out. ''Its a 2-cent part that creates mega-frustration,'' he said.
 Daniel Gorrell, vice president of Strategic Vision, a San Diego research firm, said ''long-term durability issues'' had hurt Mercedes. ''They tend to become more bothersome after three months, particularly with electronic failures, because they are so electronically oriented,'' he said.
 As part of a global initiative, Mercedes spent $645 million in the first quarter to fix quality issues. It also invested $600 million to expand the Alabama plant, where the new R-Class will also be built. 
 Still, Mercedes has already recalled 7,200 M-Class utilities, on sale since March, for problems with a power steering hose clamp.
 Whatever improvements Mercedes is making, they may not be enough to keep up. Although the brand's score jumped 26 points in the J.D. Power initial quality study in 2004, it gained only 2 points this year while Lexus improved by 6, said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing Research in Bandon, Ore. ''So even though Mercedes has gotten better, the gap keeps widening,'' Mr. Spinella said. ''Now they are as good as Cadillac. Buick is better. Other people are getting better faster.''
 Despite the poor showing in several reliability studies, Mercedes insists it has history on its side. ''Of the cars we have sold since 1955, 72 percent are still on the road,'' said Rob Moran, a Mercedes spokesman. ''So that's a pretty good measure in terms of reliability and speaks to the longevity of the models.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%) Automobiles

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Mercedes-Benz

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (54%) ALABAMA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



212 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Cal-Mex

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL RICH. 
Nathaniel Rich, the author of ''San Francisco Noir,'' is an editor at The Paris Review.

 BODY:

MUSIC OF THE MILL
By Luis J. Rodriguez.
308 pp. Rayo/
HarperCollins Publishers.
$24.95.

THE PEOPLE OF PAPER
By Salvador Plascencia.
245 pp. McSweeney's Books.
$22.
 In Luis J. Rodriguez's first novel, ''Music of the Mill,'' one character explains that ''before the borders came, we were all in one land. The Mexican migration patterns to the U.S. have been going on for tens of thousands of years.'' Rodriguez is being generous, of course. For until the borders did come, after the Mexican War that ended in 1848, California, Nevada, Utah and parts of four other southwestern states had all been Mexican territory.
 Both ''Music of the Mill'' and ''The People of Paper,'' Salvador Plascencia's first novel, offer perspectives on the Mexican-American experience in and around the city originally known as El Pueblo de Los Angeles, though the two authors' techniques could not be more dissimilar. In ''Music of the Mill,'' Rodriguez provides a brisk history of the last half of the American 20th century through the story of the Salcidos, a Chicano family living in the old industrial corridor of southeast Los Angeles. In ''The People of Paper,'' Plascencia creates a mythic, alternative history of the town of El Monte, which is east of Los Angeles, by blending fragments of American culture with Mexican folklore. Both novels, different though their approaches are, portray Los Angeles's Mexican-American communities with a grandeur and dignity that conventional accounts of the region's history often deny them.
 ''Music of the Mill'' reads like a fictional sequel to ''Always Running,'' Rodriguez's witty and brutally vivid memoir about growing up as a gang member in East Los Angeles. That book ends with Rodriguez, at 20, leaving gang life behind and setting off to work in a steel mill. ''Music of the Mill'' begins with the story of how Procopio Salcido, an 18-year-old Yaqui Indian from Sonora, finds a job in a steel mill after fleeing across the border in 1943. We later follow Procopio's son, Johnny, as he battles for civil rights and union representation for Chicano steelworkers in the early 1970's. The final section is narrated by Johnny's troubled daughter, Azucena, who comes of age in the 1980's, after the mill has closed and the neighborhood has deteriorated. But the mill, operated by a company called Nazareth Steel, is the largest character of them all. For Rodriguez, Nazareth comes to represent the promise and tragedy of the American dream. The mill provides excellent salaries, affordable housing and extensive health care, though its toxic boiler tanks and infernal furnaces lead its workers to alcoholism, depression, violence and premature death. As Rodriguez memorably describes it: ''It's a cold lover that will fail to recognize you the day after a sweat-filled night. It's a great mother who often denies her babies suckling, an earth monster who can devour you as soon as birth you.'' 
 The steel mill, with all the symbolic weight it carries, is so great a mother, in fact, that it tends to overwhelm the story of the Salcidos. This is particularly true when Rodriguez uses Johnny's experience in the mill to explore such vast subjects as labor union corruption, battles for civil rights and equal opportunity employment, the decline of American industry and the gradual transformation of Los Angeles's Mexican neighborhoods into dangerous ghettos. And while Rodriguez's colloquial language suited the brisk, episodic narrative of ''Always Running'' and the short stories in his fine collection, ''The Republic of East L.A.,'' he too often undermines the epic scope of this grander project with slack metaphors (''To Darlene, Johnny's kindness is like water to a thirsty woman in a parched desert'') and platitudes (''When that mill died, it's like a good part of us died as well''). Nevertheless, the novel gives us sympathetic portrayals of characters who, despite being worn down by racism and economic oppression, still manage to hope and stumble and love.
 In ''The People of Paper,'' Plascencia mythologizes his hometown, El Monte, drawing inspiration from the fables he learned as a child at his grandparents' farm in Jalisco. Among the novel's dozens of overlapping vignettes are those of a woman who escapes to El Monte when her Mexican town suddenly, and inexplicably, turns to dust; a soothsaying infant who transmits his prophecies through ESP; a girl obsessed with sucking limes, who dies of ''citric poisoning,'' only to be resurrected several days later by a miracle; an origami woman constructed from old newspapers, whose kisses give her lovers nasty paper cuts on their tongues and their other extremities; Rita Hayworth (nee Margarita Carmen Cansino and, in Plascencia's version, born in Jalisco instead of Brooklyn), who is mocked by the lettuce pickers in Jalisco when she abandons them for Hollywood; and a man who persuades a local gang to wage war against the planet Saturn, which he suspects of reading the townspeople's thoughts. (Saturn is later revealed to be the author himself who, alas, emerges as a central character in his own novel.)
 As wondrous and comically inventive as many of these episodes are, they never cohere into a single, larger story, a problem that Plascencia's exhausting use of typographical gimcrackery -- blotted-out text; razored-out text; sideways text; text split into as many as five columns across two pages, each column representing a different character's narrative -- cannot camouflage. Still, Plascencia has done a nice job of creating a radiant, peculiar world that forms a convincing borderland between Hollywood and Jalisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HISTORY (75%); GANGS (74%); FOLKLORE (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Nathaniel Rich; Luis J Rodriguez; Salvador Plascencia

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



213 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/The Bronx House of Detention for Men; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: A 1930's County Jail, With Art Deco Detailing

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: Streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE BRONX HOUSE OF DETENTION FOR MEN has been overshadowed by its much grander cousin, the Bronx County Courthouse, since they both opened in the 1930's. Although the courthouse has been meticulously cleaned and restored in recent years, its lesser relation is closed and empty. But the jail is still a prominent sight from the Major Deegan Expressway. 
 Few jails have the architectural force of this massive work, with its Art Deco detailing, intricate frieze and triple ziggurat. But it is slated to make way for a large redevelopment project. 
 Planning for the present Bronx County Courthouse, at 161st Street and the Grand Concourse, began in 1928, and the massive, nearly cubic limestone building opened in 1934, designed by Max Hausle and Joseph H. Freedlander. Construction of a new jail building by the same architects lagged a few years behind -- work did not begin until 1934, and it was finished in 1937, at 151st Street and River Avenue, southwest of the new courthouse and directly south of Yankee Stadium. 
 When the $1 million, 350-cell Bronx County Jail, as it was then called, opened, 15 detectives guarded its 267 newly arrived prisoners, including two accused of murder. The inmates were locked in cells arranged in tiers. Cell doors were covered with bulletproof glass; there was a microphone connection for communication. 
 Despite the building's purpose, the architects were able to create an exterior that is severe without being dour. They designed a long, eight-story slab of vertical bays of cell windows, terminated at each end by a squarish tower with a blank facade, with a central tower rising above the general mass. The three towers end in Babylonian-style ziggurat forms -- perhaps a veiled reference to Hammurabi, a king of Babylon and the author, about 1,700 B.C., of an influential code of laws.
 The facade, of slightly varied cream and gray glazed brick, is relieved by the window bays, and also by granite ornament around the base and a limestone frieze around the central tower. The frieze, in low, delicate relief, is partly covered in construction netting and hard to see from the ground, but it appears to consist of eagles, voluptuous Corinthian capitals and triplet vertical bars that emulate the triglyphs found in classical friezes like those on the Parthenon.
 To compare the building with its more prominent cousin on 161st Street is to see where you can cut corners when your occupants cannot shop for better space. Although the spandrel panels separating the windows on the courthouse are bronze, those on the jail are bronze-colored terra cotta. The courthouse has elaborate Doric-style porticos, but the jail has only a simple entryway, with a stern granite surround. The ornament on the jail is limited to the frieze and a few other elements, but the courthouse has extensive carving and mural work by a variety of artists.
 It was not aesthetics that the New York State Commission of Correction found wanting in an inspection in 1938. The group was dismayed that guards wore different kinds of uniforms and even civilian clothes, and that some did not shave regularly. Other complaints were that telephones were difficult for guards to reach in an emergency, and that the exterior windows were glazed with clear glass, which permitted inmates to signal friends outside. 
 The architectural ambition of the jail was not enough to make prisoners content. In 1942, a trusty prevented the escape of three inmates who made a shower overflow, threw a towel over the head of a guard who responded and took his keys. Five years later, Vincent Corbin, 23, was serving time for petty larceny when he found an outside door unlocked and jumped over the jail's iron fence. (He was eventually recaptured.)
 In 1959, the architect Alfred Easton Poor designed an addition to the jail, expanding west from the central tower, an extension envisioned in the original design. But in 1970, The New York Times reported that the Bronx House of Detention for Men -- as it had been renamed -- had 1,049 inmates in quarters built to hold 476. 
 When the Bronx County Courthouse was designated a landmark in 1976 the old jail was ignored, and it closed several years ago. The New York City Economic Development Commission is planning to reshape the entire area south of Yankee Stadium, now a mix of parking lots and modest industrial buildings. 
 The city and a private developer, the Related Companies, have proposed building a huge mall to replace the nearby Bronx Terminal Market, as well as the House of Detention. The north section of the market, a broad orange brick building, has been demolished -- its column stubs are visible from the Major Deegan, which runs past it. 
 At the same time, the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation has decided that the Bronx House of Detention for Men is eligible for the National Register of Historic Places, which could slow but not stop the development. Designation by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission would make the mall project difficult, but the commission has not yet designated the Tombs on Centre Street, a much more recognized jail building, and the Bronx building does not appear on its survey of important Bronx buildings prepared in 1978. 
 If Yankees fans aren't around in this often empty section of the Bronx, a walk around the jail is a lonely journey. A corrections officer watches over the front areaway, but the bronze doors are secured with a crude hasp lock. The southerly tower has a bronze doorway labeled ''Visitors Entrance'' with a huge door and three decorative medallions, one a set of the scales of justice. The frieze at the top peeks out from under the black construction netting -- a mourning dress for the building's eventual demise.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HARD TIME -- The Bronx House of Detention for Men in 1937, far left, and today, above, with some design details. The jail is closed, and a developer has proposed demolishing it. (Photo by Bronx County Historical Society)
 (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); PRISONS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORIC SITES (79%); MURDER (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); WRITERS (64%); RETAILERS (63%) Prisons and Prisoners; Historic Buildings and Sites; National Register of Historic Places; Demolition; Retail Stores and Trade ; Shopping Centers

ORGANIZATION: BRONX COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (59%) Bronx House of Detention for Men

PERSON: Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



214 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Few Wealthy Farmers Owe Estate Taxes, Report Says

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The number of farms on which estate tax is owed when the owners die has fallen by 82 percent since 2000, to just 300 farms, as Congress has more than doubled the threshold at which the tax applies, the Congressional Budget Office said in a report released last week.
 All but 27 farmers left enough liquid assets to pay taxes owed, the budget office found, although it hinted that the actual number might be zero. The study examined how much in cash, stocks and bonds these farmers left to pay estate taxes, but the report noted that no data existed on how much life insurance the farmers had put into trusts. Virtually all wealthy farmers own life insurance in trusts, say estate tax lawyers who specialize in working with farmers. 
 These findings come as the Senate is poised to vote this month on repeal of the estate tax. Advocates of repeal have begun showing commercials criticizing senators who oppose repeal, like Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington. Many of the criticisms focus on a supposed threat to family farms.
 The estate tax raised an estimated $23.4 billion last year. Repeal would shift part of the burden of taxes off the fortunes left by the richest 1 percent of Americans, some of whose fortunes were never taxed, onto the general population. The lost revenue could be made up in three ways: through higher income taxes; reduced government services; or more borrowing, which would pass the burden of current government spending to future generations.
 President Bush, the American Farm Bureau Federation and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association have asserted that the estate tax is destroying family farms. None, however, have cited a case of a farm lost to estate taxes, although in June 2001 Mr. Bush said he had talked to such farmers.
 The number of farms subject to the estate tax, always a minority, has fallen because Mr. Bush persuaded Congress to raise the threshold for estate taxes to $1.5 million, double that for married couples, for last year and this year. With simple planning, couples with children can shield several million more dollars from the tax.
 In 2000, when the threshold was $675,000, taxes were owed by 1,659 farm estates, the study found. Had the current threshold been in effect, only 300 farms would have owed any tax.
 Next year, when the threshold rises to $2 million per person, just 123 farms will be subject to the estate tax, the study found. And in 2009, when it rises to $3.5 million, only 65 of the nation's 2.2 million farms will be affected, the study said.
 The study examined who would have paid estate taxes had the current exemption levels been in effect in 2000. It noted that half of all estates left by farmers had a value of less than $987,000, well under the current threshold for owing estate tax. It found that 95 percent of estates left by farmers were worth $3.2 million or less, an amount that a married couple could easily shield from tax.
 The cattlemen's group, in materials distributed Friday, asserted that $125,000 of tax was owed on farm estates valued at $1 million even though estates of that amount were exempt from tax. 
 Jay Truitt, vice president for government affairs at the cattlemen's group, said on Friday that the Congressional study was ''a fairly comprehensive piece of information.'' He did not dispute the estimates of the shrinking number of farms affected by the estate tax or the small number lacking enough liquid assets to pay taxes.
 But, Mr. Truitt said, the study did not examine the effect of using liquid assets to pay estate taxes. When such liquid assets are diminished, he said, a cattle operation is starved for capital and can ''go years not making a profit,'' which means fewer jobs.
 Neil E. Harl, an economics professor at Iowa State University whose expertise in estate tax planning for farmers has made him a household name in the grain belt, said many Americans had a false impression that the estate tax was destroying family farming. 
 He said the Congressional study ''adds to the weight of the evidence that this is a myth that has been well spun.''
 ''Farms, in particular,'' Mr. Harl said, ''are not in jeopardy because of estate taxes.''
 Michael J. Graetz, a professor at Yale Law School who was a tax policy official in the administration of President George Bush, said repeal was primarily a benefit to people with large estates held in stocks and other securities, not to farmers. 
 Professor Graetz is a co-author of ''Death by a Thousand Cuts,'' a study of how estate tax repeal became a political issue. He said that rather than repeal the tax, Congress should raise the threshold to as much as $5 million, double that for married couples, and keep rates at or near current levels. 
 Because of details in the repeal bill, it would also force a large majority of farms and small businesses to pay larger tax bills in the future, said John Buckley, the chief tax lawyer for Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Buckley criticized farm and small-business groups as not explaining to their members that the repeal as written would cost them money while primarily benefiting those with vast fortunes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); LAWYERS (70%); MARRIAGE (67%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (64%) Taxation; Law and Legislation; Agriculture; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Farmers; Taxation

COMPANY: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (66%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); MARIA CANTWELL (57%) David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



215 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Mutual Funds Report; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: This Inflation Hedge Can Be a Bit Volatile 

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
INVESTMENTS known as Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, look like sure-fire successes -- combining safety, inflation protection and rapid appreciation.
 But the true picture of these bonds is far more complicated, says Eric Jacobson, a bond fund analyst at Morningstar.
Their strengths are real enough, he said. ''If you're a very conservative long-term investor, and you want the most perfect inflation hedge possible, TIPS are hard to beat,'' Mr. Jacobson said. 
 But TIPS can be highly volatile, he said. People should not take their recent big returns for granted, he added, because investors concerned about inflation have been piling into these bonds for some time, driving up prices.
 The Treasury Department began selling TIPS in 1997, designing them specifically to protect investors from inflation. The Treasury adjusts the value of the bonds twice a year, based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. The interest payments on the bonds are based on their inflation-adjusted principal, rather than on the face value they had when they were issued. 
 So, over the life of the bonds, interest payments will rise and fall in line with the C.P.I. At maturity, the Treasury pays bond holders either the inflation-adjusted principal or the original face value, whichever is greater.
 But the prices fetched in trading on the open market are based more on investors' views on future inflation, rather than on historical data of the price index. Bond prices move in the opposite direction of their interest rates, so if investors skittish about inflation were to bid up the cost of TIPS, the yields would fall.
 That has been happening fairly steadily over the last three years. The real yield on TIPS was in the 3.5 percent to 4 percent range until it broke below 3 percent about three years ago. At the end of June, it was below 2 percent. That means investors expecting inflation to rise are willing to accept a lower interest rate now for higher rates later.
 But some specialists, including Pimco, a large bond fund manager based in Newport Beach, Calif., say inflation may be waning. At the end of the second quarter, inflation was running at close to 3 percent, but Pimco expected that to decline to about 2 percent in the next three to five years.
 ''We think the U.S. economy is going to weaken,'' said Mihir Worah, co-manager of the Pimco Real Return fund, which invests in TIPS. Even if the economy holds up over the next five years, he said, inflation should be modest because of global competition. ''All of this outsourcing is going to put pressure on wages,'' he said, ''and wages drive a lot of inflation.'' 
 TIPS are priced now as if inflation will average about 2.3 percent over the next 10 years. That is the spread between the real yield on 10-year TIPS and the yield on equivalent Treasuries. If annual inflation is lower than 2.4 percent, then Treasuries would be a better bet.
 TIPS cannot be a perfect shield against all kinds of inflation, partly because their adjustments are based on the C.P.I., said Kenneth Volpert, co-manager of the Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities fund. Say an investor is buying TIPS in an account that is intended to pay for a college education, or to cover medical expenses during retirement. The inflation on those big expenses may be very different than it is for a tube of toothpaste or a tank of gas. ''It seems like the cost of education is always growing faster than the C.P.I.,'' Mr. Volpert said.
 The Pimco and Vanguard funds are two that Mr. Jacobson recommends. He described the Vanguard TIPS fund as ''more plain vanilla,'' and good for investors who prefer index funds. The Pimco Real Return fund is anything but plain vanilla.
 ''Pimco is a master at uncovering relatively small inefficiencies in bond prices,'' Mr. Jacobson said. ''It may not seem like a lot when you're talking about 0.2 percent. But if you find a few of those over a long period of time, it adds up.''
 THE total annual expenses of the Pimco fund are 0.9 percent, versus 0.17 percent for the Vanguard index fund. ''One way of looking at that is that Pimco has to make at least 0.73 percent each year just to get even with the other guy,'' Mr. Jacobson said. ''In the bond world, that's quite a battle.''
 The Pimco fund had a total return of 2.9 percent in the second quarter, the same result as the Vanguard fund. Over the last five years, the Pimco fund averaged 10.4 percent a year, versus 9.8 percent for the Vanguard fund.
 The Vanguard fund has no load, or sales charge. The Pimco fund's Class A shares -- bought through an adviser -- have a 3 percent front-end load, while Class B and Class C shares come without a load but have higher expenses. Mr. Jacobson said that do-it-yourself investors should buy the Pimco fund's Class D shares through their brokerage account. These come without a load and have the same annual expenses as the Class A shares.
 Whichever fund they choose, investors should make TIPS a small part of their portfolios, perhaps 5 percent, Mr. Jacobson advised. ''They're not a screaming buy today,'' he said. At current prices, he said, investors who are considering TIPS for their portfolios may want to use dollar-cost averaging. 
 Above all, he warns against piling into TIPS just because of their strong recent performance. ''Many investors think TIPS are safer, but TIPS could fall sharply in the short term,'' he said. ''The professional investor is much more agnostic about which types of bonds he owns, based on price.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mihir Worah of the Pimco Real Return fund expects inflation to be modest, in part because of downward pressure on wages. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); HISTORY (64%) 

PERSON: Eric Jacobson; J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



216 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Mutual Funds Report; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Short Lists of Stocks Can Reap Tall Profits 

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
MANY stock mutual funds made money in the second quarter, with general domestic stock funds rising 2.4 percent, on average, according to Morningstar Inc. 
 Managers of three top-performing no-load funds, all of which had concentrated portfolios, talked about some of their stock picks and about the prospects for the stock market.

Choosing 17 From 3,500
 The $97 million Matthew 25 fund returned 9.7 percent for the quarter. Its manager, Mark Mulholland, 45, says he selects its stocks after evaluating about 3,500 companies of all sizes on the quality of their business, management, finances and stock price. 
 Because the fund holds only 17 stocks, it tends to be more volatile than more diversified portfolios. The minimum investment required for the fund increased to $10,000 from $1,000 on May 1.
 The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, in Washington, known as Farmer Mac, accounts for about 16 percent of the fund's portfolio. The agency provides rural housing mortgage loans. Its shares rose 26 percent in the quarter.
 Another winner was Ameritrade Holding, the online broker. It gained 82 percent in the quarter. In early May, Ameritrade received a takeover offer from E*Trade Financial, but declined it. Ameritrade then made a deal to acquire TD Waterhouse USA. Often, prices fall when a company turns down a takeover offer, Mr. Mulholland said. In this case, the stock rose well above the takeover price, demonstrating ''good management that did the right thing for shareholders,'' he said.
 The fund also made money in Boykin Lodging, a real estate investment trust based in Cleveland that specializes in hotels. Its shares rose 41 percent in the quarter. He said the stock remained undervalued.
 Looking forward, he said he was very bullish. ''It's hard for the market to get legs'' while Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, is raising interest rates, he said. ''But he's going to be done soon and I think the potential that is underlying stocks is very high.'' 

Success in Technology
 The $50 million Hillman Aggressive Equity fund returned 8.5 percent. The manager, Mark A. Hillman, 43, said he focused on ''companies that have a sustainable competitive advantage in their industry.'' 
 Like Matthew 25, this fund, which holds 20 stocks, can be volatile. The fund benefited from its holdings in what Mr. Hillman called ''undervalued technology companies.'' 
 ''The investment community came to realize that earnings outlooks for these companies are improving,'' he said. ''A lot of the excesses of the Internet bubble have been worked through the economy, and companies need to begin spending on technology and infrastructure again.''
 One example is Corning, which rose almost 50 percent in the quarter. Mr. Hillman said the company was the most efficient, highest-quality producer of fiber optic cables and flat-panel screens, used in televisions, personal computers and cellphones. It has had problems with its fiber optics division because of a glut in the market, Mr. Hillman said, but demand in that business is increasing. Demand is also rising for its glass-panel displays, he said.
 Another holding, the mobile phone maker Motorola, was up 22 percent in the quarter. Edward J. Zander, who became the company's chief executive in 2004, ''has come in with the right mission -- to be the leader in the race to get everything you can on a mobile handset,'' Mr. Hillman said. 
 The portfolio also succeeded with D.R. Horton Inc., a homebuilder based in Fort Worth. Its shares rose 29 percent. While builders have been out of favor because of fears of rising interest rates, he said, ''this company has flourished during plenty of interest rate cycles.'' 
 Mr. Hillman said he saw ''substantial upside'' for the overall market this year. ''Companies have record levels of cash on their balance sheets, and record earnings,'' he said, ''at the same time that they need to do more capital spending.'' 

A Bet on Energy and Biotech
 Energy and biotechnology stocks drove the returns of the $9.5 billion Janus Twenty fund. This fund is also highly concentrated, owning just 34 stocks, typically those of large and midsize growth companies, said the manager, Scott W. Schoelzel, 46. The fund returned 6.4 percent in the second quarter. It lost 9.5 percent a year, on average, over the five years through June, a legacy of the collapse of the Internet bubble. The fund is closed to new investors.
 In early 2005, Mr. Schoelzel built a new position in energy shares equal to 20 percent of assets because of climbing demand for energy products and services. ConocoPhillips, the big energy company in Houston, is the fund's biggest position, accounting for more than 5 percent of assets. Its shares rose more than 6 percent, driven largely by rising oil prices, Mr. Schoelzel said.
 The fund also made money in the Celgene Corporation, a pharmaceutical company in Summit, N.J., that develops cancer drugs and therapies. Its drug Revlimid, proposed as a treatment for blood cancers, received priority review status from the Food and Drug Administration in June, and Mr. Schoelzel expects approval by year-end. Shares rose 19.5 percent in the quarter.
 Similarly, Genentech, the biotech company based in South San Francisco, Calif., rose almost 42 percent. The F.D.A. recently approved two of the company's drugs: Herceptin, which is used for metastatic breast cancer; and Tarceva, which is used for some lung cancers. 
 For the market in the months ahead, Mr. Schoelzel expects a ''high single-digit return environment until the Federal Reserve signals that it's done raising interest rates,'' he said. ''After that, I think financial assets will start to do well.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark A. Hillman, manager of the Hillman Aggressive Equity fund, says he invested in companies with a ''sustainable competitive advantage.'' (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)
At the Matthew 25 fund, Mark Mulholland evaluates companies on the quality of their business, management, finances and stock price. (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)
Scott Schoelzel, the manager of the Janus Twenty fund, was helped by its positions in energy and biotechnology stocks. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds in the second quarter fared against the overall market and their peer groups.Graphs compare returns for Matthew 25, Janus Twenty and Hillman Aggr. Equity with that of S.&P. 500 from January to March.SECOND-QUARTER RETURNSMatthew 25: +9.68%Midcap blend: +2.87Hillman Aggr. Equity: +8.53%Large value: +1.25Janus Twenty: +6.42%Large growth: +2.83(Sources by Morningstar Inc.
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (64%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (91%); FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (83%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (55%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (55%); WESTMONT HOSPITALITY GROUP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORP (56%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (91%); AGM (NYSE) (83%); AMTD (NYSE) (55%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) Mark A Hillman; Mark Mulholland; Scott Schoelzel; Carole Gould

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



217 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Romancing the (Female) Tourist

BYLINE: By HARLAN J. LEVY

 BODY:
SHE is between 35 and 54, lives in the New York metropolitan region, has a household income of at least $80,000 and needs an easily accessible break from her fast-paced life. She may be single or married and travel with friends, or she may be married and travel only with her husband. But she does not travel with children.
 Who is this woman? She is the target of Connecticut's new tourism campaign, the state's first in 10 years, which began on Memorial Day weekend. With what state officials call a sharper, different focus, the campaign is an effort to address the increasing competition for tourism dollars.
''As other states continue to increase their tourism budgets, we're finding greater and greater competition for the New York market,'' said Jennifer Aniskovich, executive director of the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism, which oversees statewide tourism. ''It's the most fertile travel market in the Northeast, an enormous population center, with high concentrations of two-income earners who are looking for vacations.'' 
 Connecticut's competition has traditionally been the Jersey Shore, Cape Cod and other New England points. ''But as the mid-Atlantic states continue to increase their tourism budgets, it will be natural to see them also move into the New York market,'' Ms. Aniskovich said.
 Officials wanted to depart from the old campaign, ''Connecticut: Full of Surprises,'' which focused on archetypical images of the state -- a lighthouse, a covered bridge, Mystic Seaport, fall foliage, casinos, wineries. 
 ''The market is currently flooded with images of scenic green vistas,'' Ms. Aniskovich said. ''After a while, the viewer is unsure whether he or she is looking at Connecticut, New Hampshire, Vermont or Pennsylvania.''
 So the commission chose an untraditional pitch -- making an appeal to a specific demographic, women, with images in both print and television advertising showing a woman who is supposedly relaxed, rejuvenated and enraptured by her stay in Connecticut, in contrast to how she feels in her hectic workday. The pitch is for the experience, not for a particular destination. 
 This approach is based on a decade of research, Ms. Aniskovich said, that showed that most state attractions -- museums, historic sites, casinos -- appealed to adults, and that women made most decisions about where to go on vacation.
 Ms. Aniskovich said that the new campaign was designed to differ from ''the glut of traditional advertising.'' 
 But the effort has been hampered by the Legislature's decision last month to cut the commission's marketing budget yet again, to $3.6 million a year, from $4 million. In the year before that, the budget was $5.8 million. The overall tourism budget that year -- including salaries and overhead as well as marketing -- was $6.8 million, which ranked Connecticut at 38th among all states in tourism dollars, far behind Pennsylvania, which spent $33 million that year on tourism, and New Jersey, which spent $14.6 million. 
 While Connecticut once had 11 tourism districts, it now has 5 -- Fairfield County, Litchfield Hills, Greater New Haven, Mystic Country and River Valley. This year, they received $4.5 million from the Legislature to spend on all tourism costs, down from $4.75 million. 
 Tourism is a $10 billion industry in the state, creating some 147,000 jobs a year, according to a study done in May 2003 by University of Connecticut researchers. Ms. Aniskovich said tourism had generated $2.3 billion in state taxes and revenues in 2001 -- the last time the state studied the issue -- ''and $50 comes back for every $1 invested in marketing.''
 Dennis Schain, spokesman for Gov. M. Jodi Rell, said, ''We were forced to make many difficult choices that affected programs and services across the board due to a large budget gap.'' 
 ''While there was a reduction, the reorganization of tourism districts allows for more efficient use of state funds, and there's money going directly to several tourist and historic attractions,'' he said.
 At one time, the district and state offices each produced their own television, radio and print advertisements, getaway guides and Web sites, Ms. Aniskovich said. ''We almost operated as competitors.''
 But faced with the shrinking budgets, for the first time, they are coordinating efforts.
 ''The state is doing the big-brand message,'' Ms. Aniskovich said. ''We're selling the way Ford does it, and the regions are selling the way the local dealerships do it.''
 Paul Mayer is executive director of the Central Regional Tourism District, home of Connecticut's Heritage River Valley, which consists of 46 towns stretching from Stafford and Suffield down to Westbrook and Old Saybrook. ''We're not stepping on each other's feet, and we're not duplicating our efforts,'' he said. 
 The campaign has two similar 30-second television commercials, produced by McLaughlin, DelVecchio & Casey, a New Haven agency. One begins with black-and-gray shots and speeded-up action of blurred images in a dreary office environment. The heroine is daydreaming, seemingly fed up with stress. She takes off her glasses and puts on sunglasses.
 At that moment, black and white turns to color; it is a sunny day, the music is soothing, and the camera pulls back to show her joining her friends, with quick cuts in different Connecticut locations. The voice-over says: ''You're this close to feeling this refreshed. Call for a free Connecticut Vacation Guide.'' 
 The campaign also includes two print advertisements and a supplement for newspapers. Each features close-up photographs of the face of a woman. In one advertisement, she appears happy, and in the other, she appears dreamy. She appears nearly ecstatic on the supplement cover. The copy on each is, respectively, ''You're this close to feeling this delighted,'' ''You're this close to feeling this romanced,'' and ''You're this close to feeling this refreshed.'' A telephone number and Web site information are provided.
 All the materials shows the word ''connect'' graphically highlighted within the word ''Connecticut.''
 Ms. Aniskovich said that at the end of May, before the television advertising began in June on New York network stations, telephone inquiries about the state were down about 41 percent from last year.
 ''We've gained back about 10 percent of our loss in just two weeks of the new campaign,'' Ms. Aniskovich said. ''Our phone inquiries in the first three weeks of June are already ahead of the entire month of June of last year.''
 Web site views at www.tourism.state.ct.us have also increased by nearly 20 percent, she said.
 Reaction from the tourism industry has also been generally positive, although some representatives of family attractions say they wish the state had tried to emphasize activities for children.
 ''We're disappointed they did not target the family,'' said Tracy Hydeck, marketing director for the Lake Compounce amusement park in Bristol. ''However, we do target the female demographic, and that's going to work for all of us.''
 Simon Flynn, executive director of the Connecticut Lodging Association and the Connecticut Restaurant Association, covering more than 800 restaurants and 100 hotels, with more than 250,000 employees, called the campaign refreshing. But he, as well as Peter Glankoff, director of communications for Mystic Seaport, criticized the tourism budget cuts.
 ''We're dealing with an inherent disbelief in the economic importance of tourism at the decision-making level of the state,'' Mr. Glankoff said. ''With more money, you'd have the ability to achieve the frequency in traditional media to have a meaningful impact.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Surprises are out, tranquillity is in: Jennifer Aniskovich, executive director of the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism, above, says a new campaign aims to attract vacationers from the New York market. A sample ad, left. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); TOURISM (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (61%); WINERIES (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Travel and Vacations; Women; Advertising and Marketing

PERSON: Harlan J Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



218 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 4677 words

HEADLINE: Will Any Organ Do?

BYLINE: By Gretchen Reynolds. 
Gretchen Reynolds frequently writes about medical topics. Her last article for the magazine was about epidemiologists tracking the avian flu.

 BODY:

Last summer at one hospital in Dallas, four people died from rabies, an unheard-of level of incidence of this rare disease. As it turned out, each patient was infected by an organ or tissue -- a kidney, a liver, an artery -- that he or she received in a transplant several weeks earlier. Their shared donor, William Beed Jr., a young brain-dead man, had rabies, caught apparently through a bite from a rabid bat, something the surgeons never suspected. They all thought he had suffered a fatal crack-cocaine overdose, which can produce symptoms similar to those of rabies. ''We had an explanation for his condition,'' says Dr. Goran Klintmalm, a surgeon who oversees transplantation at Baylor University Medical Center, where the transplants occurred. ''He'd recently smoked crack cocaine. He'd hemorrhaged around the brain. He'd died. That was all we needed to know.''
 Since the rabies deaths, recriminations have flown, procedural reviews have begun and sorrow and regret have dogged the families of the organ recipients. But the outbreak also exposed a controversy that until then was roiling only the rarefied world of transplant specialists. The issue, although freighted with monetary and bio-ethical complexities, can be boiled down to one deceptively simple question. Should transplant surgeons be using organs from nearly anyone? 
Organ transplanting has become, in fundamental ways, a victim of its own success. Not long ago, transplant surgery was a dodgy, last-ditch response to end-stage kidney failure. But with the advent of better antirejection drugs and surgical techniques, transplantation has become the treatment of choice for a growing range of conditions, including chronic kidney failure, end-stage lung or liver disease and some congestive heart failure. Kidneys are implanted routinely, as are increasing numbers of livers, hearts and pancreases.
 Fifteen years ago, about 20,000 people in the United States were on waiting lists for organs. Today, about 88,000 are. The number of donors has not come close to keeping pace. There were about 15,000 transplants completed with organs from cadavers in 1993 and about 20,000 last year. Patients used to wait weeks for an organ. Now they wait years. On average, 18 people on organ waiting lists die every day. 
 Doctors, patients and politicians concerned about transplantation have responded with proposals for increasing donations. In 2002, the American Medical Association voted to endorse pilot projects to give families financial incentives, like cash payments to help cover the costs of funerals, for donating their deceased loved ones' organs. The next year, Congress held hearings on the topic. Representative James Greenwood, Republican of Pennsylvania, introduced a bill that would have authorized demonstration projects to determine whether offering financial incentives to families of brain-dead patients would increase donation rates. There was a public outcry against ''buying'' organs and the bill died. (A few states offer tax incentives to families who donate relatives' organs.) 
 Increasingly desperate people in need of transplants have turned to highway billboards and Internet sites to solicit donors. Donations from living people have helped. Today the number of living kidney donors is greater than the number of dead donors. But living donations of other organs are rare because they can be dangerous or are impossible.
 All of which has led transplant specialists to quietly begin to relax the standards of who can donate. As a result, according to surgeons I spoke with and reports in medical journals, the transplanting of what doctors refer to as ''marginal'' or ''extended criteria'' organs, organs that once would have been considered unusable, has increased considerably in the last several years. The definition of a marginal organ differs from transplant center to transplant center and also from one type of organ to another. This makes it difficult to quantify the increase in the use of these organs. But the expansion is undeniable and has become a much-discussed issue in the field, a topic of ethics papers, surgical conferences and soul-searching on the part of many of the surgeons involved.
Fifteen years ago, William Beed Jr. would not have qualified as an organ donor. When he died in May 2004, he was 20, unemployed and had been living with his mother and sister in a bat-infested apartment building in Texarkana, Ark. Throughout his life, Beed had been in and out of trouble, his mother acknowledged when I spoke to her recently. Marijuana and cocaine were found in his urine at the time of his death, according to a report in The New England Journal of Medicine. 
 Beed's drug use alone would have disqualified him as a donor. (It still would keep him from giving blood.) ''What people have to understand is that donors now, except for the 75-year-olds who die of intracranial bleeds, are not part of the church choir,'' Klintmalm told me when I met with him in Dallas earlier this year. ''The ones who die are the ones you don't want your daughter or your son to socialize with. They drink. They drive too fast. They use crack cocaine. They get caught up in drive-bys.''
 The donor pool was different in the early days of transplantation. Beginning in the 60's and through the 80's, a majority of donors were head-trauma victims, people who had been involved in car accidents, botched suicides or tumbles off horses or ladders. These donors were almost all young, between 15 and 45. (In the 80's, few transplant surgeons would take a 50-year-old organ.) They were of average weight, with no history of diabetes, cancer, infectious disease, imprisonment, high blood pressure, cigarette-smoking habits, tattoos (which have been associated with blood-borne illnesses) or unsafe sexual behaviors. The chosen organs, said Klintmalm, who has been in practice for about 25 years, ''were pristine.'' 
 It was easy to adhere to those standards at first. ''We didn't perceive any shortage of organs back in the day,'' says Dr. Nicholas Tilney, the Francis D. Moore professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School and one of the nation's premier kidney-transplant surgeons. ''If a patient had to wait a few weeks for a kidney, that seemed long. We never foresaw the kind of situation we have today.'' 
 Conditions began to change in the 90's. Seat-belt use was more common by then, and fewer Americans were dying of head injuries, depriving transplantation of its most reliable sources of pristine organs. At the same time, the demand for transplants was growing. Surgeons had little choice but to start looking to alternative sources for organs.
On April 28, 2004, William Beed Jr. complained to his mother that he was feeling sick. ''He couldn't swallow,'' his mother, Judy, a practical nurse, recalled when I spoke with her earlier this year. They decided he should go to an emergency room, she said, and the doctors there examined him and sent him home with medication, saying he was dehydrated. By that evening, he was drooling, throwing up, shaking and still having difficulty swallowing. His fever was rising. He started vomiting blood. His father drove him to another E.R.
 Diagnosis is often a matter of context. Because of doctor-patient confidentiality rules, doctors involved with this case would not talk about it on the record, but a few did say that had Beed not had cocaine in his blood, the E.R. doctors might have investigated his symptoms more aggressively instead of assuming he had overdosed. (Because no autopsy was done, doctors have not been able to establish whether the rabies or the drugs actually killed him.) 
 Soon after, Beed fell into a coma and was put on a ventilator. After a few days, his mother said, the doctors told her and her family that their son was brain-dead. Transplant surgeons use organs from brain-dead patients because they still have a heartbeat, and if the patients are placed on a ventilator, their organs continue to get oxygen. Without oxygen, the organs degrade within minutes. 
 According to Judy Beed, a transplant coordinator approached her and asked whether she would be willing to donate her son's organs. She agreed, and in the middle of the night on May 4, the parents of Joshua Hightower received a phone call offering them William Beed's kidney. 
 Joshua Hightower, who lived in Gilmer, Tex., had had kidney problems since he was 2. They had grown progressively worse over the years. ''When he was 16, things got really bad,'' said his mother, Jennifer Hightower, a special education assistant in the public schools, when I met with her in February. ''He was pale and droopy. He weighed 112 pounds. He was sleeping all the time.'' His teachers at Gilmer High School walked him up and down the halls between classes to help him stay awake. A doctor urged his parents to get him on the waiting list for a kidney. In the meantime, Joshua began daily dialysis at home. The process, which purified his blood of toxins, required that he be home every evening by 10. Once there, he was tethered to the dialysis machine for between 9 and 16 hours. When the Hightowers received the call from the hospital, they jumped at the opportunity. 
It is impossible to know now when the first less-than-pristine organ was retrieved and transplanted. But over the course of the 90's, according to surgeons I spoke with, many barriers fell. Age was almost certainly the first to go. Instead of accepting donors 45 and younger, some transplant centers began, gradually, to take those who were 48, 49, 50 and then up from there. ''I wrote a paper for The Journal of the American Medical Association back in 1989,'' Dr. Lewis Teperman, director of transplantation at New York University Medical Center, told me when I talked to him earlier in the spring. ''It was looking at the outcomes of using older donors. By older donors, we meant someone over 60. That was considered really, really old.'' Recently, N.Y.U. transplanted a liver from a deceased 80-year-old. A couple of years ago, a Canadian hospital used a 93-year-old liver from a deceased donor. 
 Almost imperceptibly, most of the other traditional prohibitions evaporated. Surgeons started accepting lungs from people who had smoked, sometimes for decades. They accepted hearts and kidneys from those who had had high blood pressure or had been obese. They took organs from alcoholics and drug users. (Because cocaine is flushed from the body relatively quickly, it is considered one of the least problematic drugs in donors.) Infectious disease was no longer an automatic disqualifier, either. Most surgeons would have once discarded organs from someone with hepatitis C, for instance, since it destroys the liver. But the virus, often spread by injected drug use, is now so common in urban areas that few transplant surgeons will immediately turn down an organ infected with it. Ideally the surgeons implant these infected organs into patients who already harbor hepatitis C. But lately there have been cases in which doctors, as a last resort, have transplanted infected livers into patients who don't have hepatitis C. There is little published data yet about the long-term outcomes for these patients.
 The expansion into ''marginal'' or ''extended criteria'' organs has not been systematic. One transplant surgeon will use a marginal organ from, say, a morbidly obese donor or a drug user. His patient survives. Then he will repeat it again and again. At the next big transplant conference, he will talk to his colleagues about his success, and they will go back to their own transplant centers and accept, for the first time, an obese donor or a crack-cocaine user. ''You sometimes have to experiment,'' Klintmalm says.
 Klintmalm and other surgeons I spoke with who work in urban areas say that marginal organs are well on their way to being the majority of organs they transplant. Klintmalm, though, takes issue with the very definition of marginal. ''Older organs should not be called 'marginal,''' Klintmalm maintains, referring to donors over age 55. ''They're standard for us.'' But two years ago, when the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), the private organization that oversees organ transplantation in the United States, published its first definition of extended-criteria organs, age was prominent. The UNOS classification, which applies only to kidneys, defines a marginal kidney as one that comes from a deceased person over 60 or one over 50 with two of three characteristics: stroke, hypertension or abnormal kidney function. The definition does not mention smoking, diabetes, hepatitis, alcoholism, obesity or drug use.
 No government agency sets standards for what makes an organ acceptable. The Department of Health and Human Services contracts with UNOS to handle the day-to-day logistics of the transplant system (getting organs to the next person on the list and so on). But the government's main concerns in policing transplants are that donors and recipients be matched for blood type and that organs be distributed primarily based on medical need, not the wealth, race or celebrity of the recipients. So decisions about whether organs are usable are made on the spot by individual surgeons. 
 To date, not many peer-reviewed studies have been published that examine the long-term outcomes of using marginal organs. The research that has been done mostly looks at kidneys.
 Recent studies of older kidneys (usually defined as over 50), for instance, have shown that they can function almost as well as younger ones. They don't work for as long, however. In a report presented by UNOS, which adjusted for the health of the recipient, among other things, about a third of extended-criteria kidneys failed within three years. (About 20 percent of non-extended-criteria organs also failed within three years.) Transplantation, even under the best of circumstances, still involves risk. In assessing marginal organs, it is difficult to know whether a bad outcome -- the recipient's death or the organ's failure -- was caused by the organ, the surgery or the fragile health of the recipient. 
 Except for age-related research, few large-scale studies have yet investigated the effects of other extended-criteria kidneys. Do kidneys from diabetics, the obese, alcoholics, smokers or drug users generally work over the long term? Surgeons and scientists can't say for sure.
 There is even less information about imperfect livers, hearts or lungs. Surgeons do know that livers, for some reason, don't age at the same rate as their original owners. Sixty- or 70-year-old livers can be in fine shape. Hearts and lungs aren't as durable and are more likely to fail as they get older. But surgeons are using them. A 2003 report by the UNOS-administered Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network stated: ''The need to more agressively utilize available organs for the candidate population as a whole competes with the expectation of each individual.'' 
And this is, ultimately, the crux of the matter. The marginality of any given organ is relative. It depends on how sick the waiting recipient is. There is a kind of mad, desperate arithmetic that goes into calculating whether to use a marginal organ and when. ''We're all trying to quantify the risks,'' Lewis Teperman, the N.Y.U. transplant director, says. ''If we know that there's a 0.7 increase in relative risk of an extended-criteria organ failing, which is about what we've seen in kidneys so far, you take that number, look at your patient's chances for survival, which might be 90 percent with a perfect organ and 80 percent with an extended-criteria one and. . . . '' He trails off. ''It sounds very clinical when I put it like that, which isn't what I want.'' He starts again. ''It's easy enough to come up with these kinds of calculations. But it's difficult for any of us to apply them in practice, when we're dealing with very sick people's lives.'' 
 Dr. Marlon Levy, a liver-transplant surgeon in Fort Worth and the medical director for the Southwest Transplant Alliance, the group that unwittingly collected and distributed the rabid organs last year, told me: ''You have this immensely complex weighing of benefits and risks in each of these cases. Is the recipient sick enough to justify using any organ, even a really marginal one, to try and save his life and give him a few more years? Or say you have a slightly healthier patient, and you think he's doing well enough to pass on a marginal organ and wait for a better one. Then, suddenly, he develops complications and dies before another organ becomes available. Were these decisions wrong?''
 It is extremely difficult to predict outcomes. ''The best thought-out decision doesn't work out all the time,'' Teperman says. ''I have put in extended-criteria organs that worked perfectly, and the person walked out the door a week later. Other times, a patient has gotten an extended-criteria organ and remained hospitalized for months. I've also waited, thinking a better organ would come along, and the patient has died in the meantime.'' 
 To some extent, surgeons' hands are tied. In general, the current system requires that the most desperately ill patient must get the next organ that comes in, whether it is the best organ for that patient or not. ''Things would work best if we could put the most extended-criteria organs into the less critically ill patients and the healthiest organs into the sickest patients,'' Teperman says. 
 The calculus may be even more complex from the patient's perspective. Dr. Grant Campbell, an epidemiologist with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, had a liver transplant in 1990. At that time, he was chronically ill and knowingly accepted an organ infected with cytomegalovirus, a common and usually mild disease but one that can be serious in immunosuppressed transplant patients. Fortunately, he didn't become sick. 
 Even the most rational attempts to weigh the risks and benefits of marginal organs tend to fall apart in the face of truly boundless human despair. ''We would have taken any lungs,'' said Harry Littlejohn, 59, of Lewisville, Tex., whose 28-year-old daughter, Carmen, died in 2001 of cystic fibrosis. She had been No. 1 on the state waiting list for new lungs for eight weeks by then. None became available. ''We would have done anything to save her,'' he said, ''anything. But there was nothing we could do.'' 
Joshua Hightower turned 18 on May 10, 2004, in the transplant recovery ward at Baylor University Medical Center. Photos from around that time show him propped up in bed, looking wan, but smiling. 
 Joshua had been added to the lengthy transplant waiting list the year before. The doctors said they could not estimate how long the wait would be, Jennifer Hightower, his mother, told me. 
 After the Hightowers received the call from the hospital, his mother recalled, she had wondered about the donor. Anonymity has been crucial to the workings of the organ-transplant system. Donation is supposed to be a blind act of altruism. Donor families aren't told at the time who will receive the organs, and recipients generally are told only the age and sex of the donor. 
 ''You don't want people coming in and saying, 'I'll only donate to Italians.' Or 'I only want them to go to someone in the Ku Klux Klan,''' says Sheldon Zink, director of the program for transplant policy and ethics at the University of Pennsylvania. You also don't want recipients turning down organs because of their own biases. 
 But how much should a surgeon tell a patient who is about to receive a compromised organ? Should he explain that the new kidney comes from a retiree, a drug user or an alcoholic, a chain smoker or a member of a motorcycle gang? Does he have to tell a patient that the organ he is about to receive is considered marginal? 
''I wish we had been told more,'' Jennifer Hightower says. Her son, she went on to say, would have declined the kidney had they known more about Beed's background and his death. Joshua, she says, was not so sick that he couldn't wait. ''I would have made him pass on it.'' 
 Her attitude worries Zink, the ethicist. ''I would question anyone's motivation in refusing an organ from a drug user,'' she told me. ''They aren't responding to clinical information, because the available clinical data'' -- the anecdotal reports from doctors -- ''indicates that organs from crack-cocaine users are fine, in general. So they must be responding to preconceptions about that person's lifestyle. That's only one small step from declining an organ because the donor is black or Hispanic.''
 At the moment, no formal national medical standards dictate what transplant surgeons should tell their patients about organs other than kidneys or what they can withhold. Each doctor makes that decision based on how he feels about the ethics of the situation. 
 ''I believe in erring on the side of telling the patient as much as possible,'' Teperman says. ''We have a lengthy consent form here at N.Y.U., and it goes into the use of marginal organs. We ask patients if they will accept one. You don't want to be calling someone at 2 a.m. and saying: 'You can take this organ we just got in that may not be very good or you can wait and maybe die. What do you want to do?' That's an unrealistic burden to put on a patient. We try to have the conversation early on, when patients are a little more clearheaded. That's not always an easy conversation to have. Some patients would rather not think about it. They'd rather the doctor just make the decision for them.'' 
 Some surgeons insist on making decisions about marginal organs unilaterally. ''There are transplant surgeons who think they absolutely know best,'' Zink says. ''They don't bother asking the patient if he wants a marginal organ because they don't want the patient having a choice. They make it for him.''
 When Zink recently asked surgeons at a major transplant conference how many of them always tell their patients if they are about to implant a marginal organ, ''about half said they tell the patient,'' Zink told me. ''Half said they don't.''
 Some surgeons withhold information because they are concerned about litigation (better to say nothing than to say that an organ might be compromised, have your judgment proved right and be sued for it). Others are prodded by compassion. ''There are doctors out there who think that a patient will recover better if he isn't worrying about the quality of the organ inside of him,'' Zink says. 
 Wry pragmatism also plays a role. ''At some large urban transplant centers, virtually all organs nowadays are extended-criteria organs,'' Zink points out. Why discuss the option of accepting or declining an imperfect organ? If a patient says he doesn't want one, he'll most likely never get an organ at all. ''I've had doctors tell me they don't even tell their patients that they're about to get an organ that might be infected with hepatitis C because so many of the donated organs may have it,'' Zink says. 
On Friday, May 28, 24 days after his transplant, Joshua Hightower, who had been released from the hospital, graduated from high school. He clutched his diploma, climbed up into the stands and threw up, Jennifer Hightower said. He didn't stop vomiting all through the celebrations that followed. The next day, he was stumbling, and by the evening, he was having convulsions. Spit dribbled down his face. Doctors at the nearest emergency room hurriedly transferred him to the E.R. at Baylor.
 Upstairs in the transplant wing, around the same time, three other patients who had received donations from William Beed Jr. lay dying, each with convulsions, delirium or pain. Within two weeks, all but Joshua were dead. Rabies was confirmed as the cause of death a few weeks later.
 There is no formal system that tracks the short-term fate of individual organs from a particular donor. Surgeons report raw data about deaths and severe surgical complications to UNOS. Had all of the people who received an organ from William Beed Jr. not come back to the same hospital and died, one after another, their rabies may not have come to light. 
 In May, three people died who had received organs from the same donor in New England. As it turned out, the donor had passed along lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, a rare illness transmitted to humans from rodents like hamsters. Two of the recipients, after getting ill, went to the same hospital, which helped doctors there determine that the transplant was the cause. 
 ''I doubt very much that this is the only time'' that rabies has killed transplant patients, says Charles Rupprecht, the C.D.C.'s rabies expert about the Beed case. ''And I doubt that it will be the last.'' In February, doctors in Germany announced that four patients there had been infected with rabies after receiving organs from a rabid young woman who had died, they had thought, of a heart attack associated with an overdose of cocaine and Ecstasy. 
 ''Rabies is a sentinel disease,'' argues Dr. Matthew Kuehnert, the assistant director for blood safety at the C.D.C., who has studied outbreaks of disease in transplant recipients. ''It tells us we should be paying attention, that something needs to change.'' 
 What, though? ''We cannot start testing every donor for rabies or any of the other once-in-a-lifetime diseases that might crop up,'' Klintmalm says. ''We don't have time. It would cost too much. You might as well shut down every transplant center. If another case came in today exactly like that one, a young man who used crack cocaine and died, I would not demand more explanation. Why? We'll never get the risk of transplants down to zero. It's stupid to pretend we can. That young man appeared to be a perfect donor. I wish we had more like him.''
The broader question is what, if anything, should change in transplantation as marginal organs become everyday organs? ''We at the C.D.C. wish that there were more formal disease surveillance and follow-up of transplant patients,'' Kuehnert said. ''We simply don't know the risks of using certain types of donors at this point.'' The C.D.C. has no authority to require such follow-up and study, though. Only other regulatory agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services or state agencies can set such mandates.
 In June 2004, the New York State Department of Health became the first regulatory agency in the country to start formally looking into the growing use of marginal organs and to formulate recommendations about what patients should be told and what kinds of organs should be allowed. Its report is due soon. 
 In the meantime, the United Network for Organ Sharing has created a designation for patients who say they will accept a marginal kidney. At the end of February, 42 percent of the adults waiting for a kidney in the United States said they would take a marginal organ. 
A year ago, while Joshua Hightower lay unconscious but alive, the doctors decided to surgically remove his transplanted kidney. But by then, rabies (not yet identified as the culprit) was everywhere in him. His condition worsened. On June 18, a Friday, doctors tested for brain activity. They found none and declared him brain dead. Stung with grief, Jennifer Hightower and the rest of her family sat with the boy through a wrenching weekend while he remained on a ventilator. On that Monday, his parents agreed to end life support. That afternoon, with his family watching, doctors turned off the ventilator. His mother held him as his heart stopped. 
 It will not be a simple matter in the years ahead to decide how best to save lives with transplants. At some point this year, the number of people on transplant waiting lists in the United States will very likely top 100,000. Unless there is an enormous effort, probably from the federal government, to increase organ donation, the shortage will only grow. ''All these kids we see with diabetes,'' Nicholas Tilney says, ''so many of them will need a new kidney in a few years. Where are those organs going to come from?'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: These surgical implements -- dissecting scissors, needle holder and forceps at left and scalpel and surgical retractors at right -- are typically used for preparing a patient to receive a new kidney.
 Some other tools of the transplant trade: needles and sutures on the left and various clamps on the right. (Photographs by Phillip Toledano for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RABIES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); COCAINE (90%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); KIDNEY DISEASE (89%); ORGAN DONATION (89%); ORPHAN DRUGS (89%); LIVER DISEASE (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); LEGISLATION (64%) Transplants; Rabies; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Transplants

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Gretchen Reynolds

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



219 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; COUNTY LINES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Is Youth Too Green To Notice The Greenery?

BYLINE: By Marek Fuchs

 BODY:
BY any decent reckoning, the Hudson Valley is the birthplace of the modern environmental movement. Notably, there was Con Edison's attempted assault on Storm King Mountain, perhaps the river's most famed natural locale. The plant it sought to build there in the 1960's and 70's never materialized, because the opposition was ferocious. 
 Where is that ferocity today? Lost downriver, perhaps. In a Pace poll last month, the area's population came off as supremely uninterested in the natural world, as well as woefully naive (or maybe just plain ignorant). 
 For instance, there was the question of whether it is illegal to dump pollutants into the Hudson River. Eighty-four percent of respondents to the Pace Academy for the Environment survey -- conducted by telephone in 17 counties along 315 miles of the Hudson, from Manhattan to Essex County -- thought it was. It isn't. It is regulated, but that's quite a distance from illegal. 
 The results get better: Nearly 60 percent rated their local environments as very good or excellent; only 5 percent described the environment as the most important local issue; and those 18 to 24 were the age group least likely to regard the environment as critically important. 
 The closure of Indian Point, which environmental groups have devoted so much time and political capital to, did not rank as a big issue for the 608 surveyed residents. The Hudson River's enviable revival in the years since the Con Edison battle is perhaps being taken for granted. 
 That must be it -- it's probably not the movement's fault at all. Every new generation has a short memory, and members of this one even consider Chernobyl a hip tourist destination. They seem particularly inward-looking -- focused on makeovers of the face, the body and the home, perhaps as a way to avoid dwelling on war in Iraq and job competition at home. 
 The environmental movement has become a victim of its own success, said John Cronin, director of the Pace Academy for the Environment. Having been so effective historically, it comes across as not needing much support -- as being well equipped with legions of experienced activists ready for any battle. 
 The young, added Jonathan Trichter, director of the Pace Poll, see the environmental movement has almost retrograde. ''A historical note,'' he said, ''like temperance.'' 
 To change that, Mr. Trichter theorized, environmentalists may need to rethink their publicity methods. Currently ''they go with a food-police model,'' he said, grabbing attention through a constant drumbeat of warnings, always standing in opposition to one thing or another. 
 ''For the public, the environmental movement has become broccoli, a chore to chew,'' he concluded. 
 Back when it started, there was more whimsy. There was the Clearwater sloop, for instance, built to take people out on the river they had forgotten, to teach them and turn them to the cause, all while giving them the time of their lives. And demands to clean the Hudson were always set to the music of people like Pete Seeger. 
 The movement, said Alex Matthiessen, executive director of Riverkeeper, is realizing that it may be time for a change. ''We are increasingly sensitive of where the bludgeon makes sense and where the carrot does,'' he said, adding that activists also need to remind the public of the economic blessings flowing from a healthy environment.
 ''People are failing to make the connection between a clean Hudson and booming Hudson Valley,'' he said. ''The river has become the crown jewel of the valley.''
 Mr. Cronin, for his part, has high hopes for the Hudson Valley, precisely because so many environmentalists' best hopes have already been realized there. In the poll, after all, 96 percent of respondents said that the discharge of pollutants into the Hudson should be illegal.
 ''How do you get close to 100 percent on any question?'' he said. ''Public opinion is so far ahead of the law that we have a lot of opportunity.'' 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); IRAQ WAR (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); TOURISM (50%) Environment; Children and Youth

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Pace University

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Marek Fuchs; John Cronin; Jonathan Trichter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); UKRAINE (69%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



220 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Skyscrapers Grow in Brooklyn

 BODY:
Reports that there are now competing bids to develop Brooklyn's downtown should be good news for the city and for anyone who uses public transportation. Assuming open and fair competition, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority -- which practically gave away the rights to build a football stadium over its rail yards in Manhattan -- might actually get something approaching market value for the development rights over its rail yards at Atlantic Avenue. It is not a promising sign, though, that the monetary details of the two bids on the MTA property have not been disclosed by either bidder. A little sunlight in such an important transaction should be a minimum requirement. 
 At issue is a triangle of rail yards where one of the developers, Bruce Ratner of Forest City Ratner, wants to build a new arena for the Nets basketball team as part of a larger project that would include nearly 7 million square feet of residential and commercial space. The other bidder, the Extell Development Company, proposes a much smaller undertaking, three blocks of apartment buildings over the rail yards and no provision for the Nets. (Mr. Ratner is a partner in building The Times's new headquarters. Gary Barnett, who submitted the Extell bid, unsuccessfully sued to try to block that project.)
Both proposals have questions to answer. The Extell plan needs to credibly address improvements that would have to be made to the site, such as resituating the rails and repairing the environment. The far more ambitious $3.5 billion Ratner plan deals with those issues, and has the very important advantage of carrying with it a commitment to create jobs for area residents, including minorities and women, and to build as many as 3,000 affordable housing units -- 50 percent of the total planned. That's significant in a borough with high unemployment and a housing shortage.
 The important thing that's lacking in the Ratner proposal is a creative way to deal with all the problems that come with much more traffic and more people. The area's streets are already overloaded with cars and trucks. And while the site sits atop a terminal hub with 10 subway lines, public transit is already strained. Adding as many as 18,000 residents and thousands more workers could be a nightmare. There are related questions involving schools and other public facilities, which would also face overcrowding. 
 Those issues have to be addressed. But it is not reasonable to reject the Ratner plan simply because Brooklyn has never before seen anything that big. The area seems ripe for more adventurous ideas. Brooklyn has already had more than its share of dramatic change. Gentrification is busting out all over, from the waterfronts to downtown, fueled in large part by residential buyers who have been priced out of the Manhattan market. 
 Opponents worry that the area's low-rise profile, now interrupted only by the 34-story Williamsburg Bank tower, would be replaced by a thicket of skyscrapers. Such a transformation is almost inevitable in a city where growth is usually vertical, and if it happens in Brooklyn, it could help diversify the city's Manhattan-centric economic base. 
 If counted as a separate city, Brooklyn would be the fourth largest in the United States. The potential for developing the Atlantic railyards site furthers the prospect that it will may yet emerge from the shadow of its smaller sister, Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); RELOCATIONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Editorials; Area Planning and Renewal; Transit Systems; Basketball; Stadiums and Arenas; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (91%) Extell Development Co; Forest City Ratner; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; New Jersey Nets

PERSON: Bruce Ratner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Brooklyn (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



221 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 7-10-05: FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: The Seat-Belt Solution

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything.'' More information on the academic research behind this column, as well as video clips of the crash tests, is at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
A Car-Seat Crash Test
On a recent Monday morning, nearly 20 police officers gathered in Clarkstown, N.Y., for a four-day seminar. They had assembled to fight one of modernity's great scourges: child deaths in motor-vehicle crashes. Each officer was given a 345-page training manual issued by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). At seminar's end, each would be certified as a ''child passenger safety technician,'' which primarily means that they would be experts in the installation and use of child car seats.
 Why does it take four days to learn about car seats? Because any given seat is a tangle of straps, tethers and harnesses built by one of dozens of manufacturers whose products must be secured by the diverse seat-belt configurations of any passenger vehicle sold in the United States. According to the NHTSA manual, more than 80 percent of car seats are improperly installed.
 So over the course of those four days, there were many questions to be answered. But one question about car seats is rarely even asked: How well do they actually work?
 They certainly have the hallmarks of an effective piece of safety equipment: big and bulky, federally regulated, hard to install and expensive. (You can easily spend $200 on a car seat.) And NHTSA data seem to show that car seats are indeed a remarkable lifesaver. Although motor-vehicle crashes are still the top killer among children from 2 to 14, fatality rates have fallen steadily in recent decades -- a drop that coincides with the rise of car-seat use. Perhaps the single most compelling statistic about car seats in the NHTSA manual was this one: ''They are 54 percent effective in reducing deaths for children ages 1 to 4 in passenger cars.''
 But 54 percent effective compared with what? The answer, it turns out, is this: Compared with a child's riding completely unrestrained. There is another mode of restraint, meanwhile, that doesn't cost $200 or require a four-day course to master: seat belts.
 For children younger than roughly 24 months, seat belts plainly won't do. For them, a car seat represents the best practical way to ride securely, and it is certainly an improvement over the days of riding shotgun on mom's lap. But what about older children? Is it possible that seat belts might afford them the same protection as car seats?
 The answer can be found in a trove of government data called the Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS), which compiles police reports on all fatal crashes in the U.S. since 1975. These data include every imaginable variable in a crash, including whether the occupants were restrained and how. 
 Even a quick look at the FARS data reveals a striking result: among children 2 and older, the death rate is no lower for those traveling in any kind of car seat than for those wearing seat belts. There are many reasons, of course, that this raw data might be misleading. Perhaps kids in car seats are, on average, in worse wrecks. Or maybe their parents drive smaller cars, which might provide less protection.
 But no matter what you control for in the FARS data, the results don't change. In recent crashes and old ones, in big vehicles and small, in one-car crashes and multiple-vehicle crashes, there is no evidence that car seats do a better job than seat belts in saving the lives of children older than 2. (In certain kinds of crashes -- rear-enders, for instance -- car seats actually perform worse.) The real answer to why child auto fatalities have been falling seems to be that more and more children are restrained in some way. Many of them happen to be restrained in car seats, since that is what the government mandates, but if the government instead mandated proper seat-belt use for children, they would likely do just as well / without the layers of expense, regulation and anxiety associated with car seats.
 NHTSA, however, has been pushing the car-seat movement ever further. The agency now advocates that all older children (usually starting at about age 4) ride in booster seats, which boost a child to a height where the adult lap-and-shoulder belts fit properly. Could this be a step in the wrong direction? In 2001, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety sent NHTSA a memo warning that its booster-seat recommendations were ''getting ahead of science and regulations'' and that certain booster seats ''did not improve belt fit, and some actually worsened the fit.'' 
 If car seats and booster seats are shown in the FARS data to be no more effective than seat belts, might it be because so many of them are improperly installed? To find out, we contacted an independent lab that conducts crash tests. The idea was simple: compare properly installed car seats with properly used standard seat belts. We commissioned two crash tests: a 3-year-old-sized dummy in a car seat versus a 3-year-old dummy in lap-and-shoulder belt; and a 6-year-old-sized dummy in a booster seat versus a 6-year-old dummy in lap-and-shoulder belt.
 The conditions of the test ensured that the seats would perform optimally: they were strapped to old-fashioned bench-style seats (which give a flush fit) by an experienced engineer (who is presumably more competent than the average parent). The dummies in the seat belts were also positioned optimally, sitting upright and flush.
 The chore was gruesome, from start to finish. Each dummy, dressed in shorts, T-shirt and sneakers, had a skein of wires snaking out of his body to measure head and chest damage. The pneumatic sled was fired backward with a frightening bang, simulating a 30 m.p.h. frontal crash; on impact, the dummy's head, legs and arms jerked forward, fingers flailing in the air, and then the head recoiled.
 Within minutes, we had some data. Though the lap-and-shoulder belts rode too high on the 3-year-old dummy, the head- and chest-impact data were only nominally higher than that for the 3-year-old in the car seat; according to federal standards, most likely neither child would have been injured. In the second test, the 6-year-old in the booster and the 6-year-old in the seat belt produced virtually identical numbers. Again, most likely neither one would have been injured. 
 These tests don't actually prove much. The sample was too small, the circumstances were too controlled and the sensors didn't measure neck or abdominal injuries, which child-safety advocates say are worse with seat belts. What matter are the crash data from the real world, where one 4-year-old in a lap-and-shoulder belt may find the shoulder belt so irritating that he puts it behind his back and another 4-year-old may be in a poorly installed car seat. And when it comes to real-world situations, the FARS data are extremely compelling. 
 So if car seats and booster seats aren't the safety miracle that parents have been taught to believe, what should they do? The most important thing, certainly, is to make sure that children always ride with some kind of restraint -- and, depending on your state, a car seat or booster seat may be the only legal option. On a broader level, though, it might be worth asking this question: Considering that Americans spend a few hundred million dollars annually on complicated contraptions that may not add much lifesaving value, how much better off might we be if that money was spent to make existing seat belts fit children? Some automakers do in fact make integrated child seats (in which, for example, the car's seat back flips down for the child to sit on); other solutions might include lap-and-shoulder belts that vertically adjust to fit children, or even a built-in five-point harness. 
 It may be that the ultimate benefit of car seats and booster seats is that they force children to sit still in the back seat. If so, perhaps there is a different contraption that could help accomplish the same goal for roughly the same price: a back-seat DVD player. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Esther Pearl Watson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (90%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CHILD CAR SEATS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (72%); STATISTICS (72%) Automobiles; Children and Youth; Car Seats (Children); Seat Belts; Automobile Safety Features and Defects; Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: Stephen J Dubner; Steven D Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



222 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: The Color of Money

BYLINE: By TA-NEHISI COATES

 BODY:
THIS month, if all goes according to plan, two very different impulses roiling inside of black Hollywood will have met in the middle of the summer movie season.
 With the release of 20th Century Fox's ''Fanatastic Four'' this weekend, Tim Story becomes one of the few African-Americans (joining John Singleton with ''2 Fast 2 Furious,'' Antoine Fuqua with ''King Arthur,'' and Keenen Ivory Wayans with ''Scary Movie,'' for instance) to direct a major studio ''popcorn'' film. Mr. Story, best known for his breakthrough movie ''Barbershop,'' has thus made his mark as a major league director who only happens to be black.
Two weeks later, a largely black cast and producing team -- working with the white writer-director Craig Brewer -- will deliver ''Hustle & Flow,'' a hip-hop inspired picture from Paramount Classics and MTV Films. The movie is intent on turning its portrayal of a distinctly African-American pop-cultural icon -- the actor Terrence Howard's sympathetic pimp who dreams of the rap life -- into a broadly appealing story of human redemption. 
 Both films share a fierce determination by their African-American principals to reach the mainstream audience, albeit by different strategies. Mr. Story's challenge doesn't hinge on race: he has to find something for Everyman in the travails of his Marvel Comics heroes. ''Hustle & Flow,'' meanwhile, gives viewers a pass to the ghetto, to show that all the world shares its tragedies and triumphs. 
 As it happens, neither Mr. Story nor the ''Hustle & Flow'' team found it easy to crack a system where black talent, despite some enormous successes, is still finding barriers to be overcome. Yet their movies have arrived in the middle of a year that may someday be seen as at least a minor watershed in Hollywood's long struggle with matters of race.
 In February, Jamie Foxx (in ''Ray'') and Morgan Freeman (in ''Million Dollar Baby'') won Oscars -- as their fellow black actors Don Cheadle and Sophie Okonedo joined them in picking up a record five Academy Award nominations. The showing came as a startling string of box-office successes, as black actors rode (or drove) one picture after another to the No. 1 spot in the early weeks of the year. Tyler Perry did it ''Hustle & Flow''-style, by making his low-budget, overtly black ''Diary of a Mad Black Woman'' a cross-cultural hit for Lions Gate, with over $50 million in domestic ticket sales. It competed with Sony Pictures' ''Hitch,'' in which Will Smith put aside racial stereotyping to play his first comic-romantic lead (following the colorblind impulse, and a trail blazed by Denzel Washington with dramas like ''The Siege'' and ''The Manchurian Candidate''), to score over $177 million at the domestic box office. It was also up against ''Are We There Yet?,'' with Ice Cube; ''Guess Who?,'' with Bernie Mac; and ''Coach Carter,'' with Samuel L. Jackson -- all of which were solid performers, and all, remarkably, playing theaters at the same time.
 ''I do think the tide is turning,'' said John Ridley, an African-American filmmaker who is writing and producing a ''Barbershop'' television series for Showtime Networks. ''Things are definitely moving forward. People look at Hollywood and say, 'I wish it was changing here or there.' But if I'd come in the business 10 years earlier, I wouldn't be where I am today.''
 In interviews, black filmmakers and actors and those who work with them echoed that sense of progress, pointing especially to evidence that white audiences -- spurred by the 20-year-old hip-hop revolution -- are going to films that might once have been seen as an African-American preserve. Sony Pictures, for instance, found the audience for ''Are We There Yet?'' -- its star once best known for the brutal harshness of his gangsta rap with NWA -- was 43 percent white, 26 percent black and 18 percent Hispanic.
 ''Music is always the first crossover medium,'' said David Gale, executive vice president of MTV Films, which is releasing ''Hustle and Flow.'' ''Hip-hop is universal right now, or more universal right now than rock, and that's a big foundation for MTV. In film, we just get the benefit.''
 Still, several key African-American players cautioned that Hollywood -- largely run by white agents and executives --had yet to find its comfort zone with black talent and black themes.
 ''I don't think much has changed for black films,'' said Jeff Friday, who runs Film Life Inc., a small distributor specializing in black-themed movies. ''They still think that we're monolithic, and mostly the films are limited to urban themes and comedy. Don Cheadle just got his first big lead role this year. Hollywood is risk averse, and I do think it's more economics than it is race. But here's the thing about the economics piece -- when a black movie goes outside the box and does well, Hollywood doesn't follow up on it.''
 In the case of Mr. Story, a 35-year old Los Angeles native once known mainly as a director of music videos, Fox actually did follow up on his success with MGM's ''Barbershop'' by backing his ''Taxi'' with Queen Latifah. And the studio went the next step by assigning him ''Fantastic Four'' despite weak reviews for ''Taxi'' and its modest box-office performance. But he felt that, as a black director seeking a mainstream assignment, he couldn't afford any weak spots. 
 ''I knew that if I got my chance, I would be better prepared than anybody out there,'' Mr. Story said. He added, ''it took a while'' for the implications to sink in: ''A few people called me about the black thing and said: 'This is major. You're a black director on ''Fantastic Four.''' But all I was thinking was: 'I just don't want to screw up.' But then people were like, 'If you screw this up, we all got a problem,' and I said, 'Oh, man, I got that on me now?'''
 If Mr. Story felt extra pressure in undertaking ''Fantastic Four,'' those behind ''Hustle & Flow'' still found Hollywood surprisingly slow on the uptake when asked to translate rap iconography to film. Stephanie Allain, who helped produce ''Boyz N the Hood'' while an executive at Columbia in 1991, struck out repeatedly when pitching ''Hustle'' to studios that weren't ready to accept a pimp --a stock urban character who through rap has become a familiar of the MTV generation-- as a hero. ''Can he be a mailman? Can he be a U.P.S. driver?,'' Ms. Allain recalled being asked. ''Can he do anything but the lowest of the low? There was this P.C. thing going on.''
 She joined forces with Mr. Singleton and financed the film independently, then sold the completed picture to Paramount Classics after screening it at the Sundance Film Festival earlier this year. Set for release on July 22, it will forcefully test Ms. Allain's theory that a substantial audience, having already embraced the harshest aspects of street culture in music, will now do so in film, provided the story's moral remains clear: ''If a low-down, dirty pimp can be redeemed, so can we.''
 Some say the challenge in universalizing such projects may largely be one of marketing. In making ''Barbershop'' a crossover hit with $75 million in domestic ticket sales despite its cozy, insider's sense of black neighborhood life, MGM, at the urging of the producers Robert Teitel and George Tillman Jr., promoted the film well beyond the usual boundaries of black radio, BET and billboards on assorted Martin Luther King boulevards. ''Offhand, I would say our movie was about 60/40 black-white,'' said Mr. Tillman. ''They said they believed in 'Barbershop' like any other film.''
 In tapping black experience for the broad audience, both ''Barbershop'' and ''Hustle & Flow'' have clearly pursued the promise of ''Boyz N the Hood,'' which 14 years ago proved the potential in a ghetto-based drama with a solid $57 million in domestic ticket sales -- and jump-started the film careers of not just Mr. Singleton, but also of Ice Cube, Cuba Gooding Jr., Morris Chestnut and Nia Long. Yet Hollywood quickly veered toward the somewhat harsher visions of pictures like the Hughes brothers' ''Menace II Society'' and ''Dead Presidents,'' which to many lacked the compassion and broad humanity that underlay Mr. Singleton's debut film. Only lately, has it seemed to rediscover the potential commercial power in simple black morality tales like ''Drumline,'' a low budget picture about a black high school marching band that two years ago took in $56 million for Fox, or ''You Got Served,'' an inexpensive amalgam of cliche and hip-hop dance scenes that had $40 million in ticket sales for Sony last year.
 As such pictures complete their circle -- and Mr. Smith, in colorblind studio fare, commands grosses to rival those of Eddie Murphy at his peak -- at least one major sore spot still remains in black Hollywood: its women. 
 None of the big hits anchored by African-Americans this year were carried by women. The one major candidate was ''Beauty Shop,'' which starred Queen Latifah and, notwithstanding her much-lauded performance in ''Chicago,'' brought in $36 million dollars at the domestic box office -- around half what the original ''Barbershop'' and its sequel each did. 
 ''After Halle Berry does her films and Latifah does her films, it's left to all the black, Latino and Asian actresses to fight over a couple of roles,'' said Gabrielle Union, who played Alice Kramden in Paramount's poorly received black-themed adaptation of ''The Honeymooners'' this year. ''I opted for some TV. There just not a ton of work in film.''
 By early next year, even that may begin to change, as Ms. Berry, putting ''Catwoman'' behind her, returns in her third showing as Storm in Fox's ''X-Men'' franchise, and Beyonce Knowles arrives as a full-blown lead in the director Bill Condon's adaptation of the Broadway musical ''Dreamgirls'' for Dreamworks SKG.
 Yet progress isn't victory. Indeed, Mr. Gale of MTV warned that viewers tend still tend to polarize along racial lines if not encouraged to see common ground in a film. ''There's still a lot of segregation among movie audiences, but the younger audience is more open,'' he said.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Friday of Film Life cautioned that success and acceptance aren't quite the same, either -- and that the second may still be several beats behind the first. ''We ate at the table this year,'' he said. ''But we can't afford to get comfortable.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about recent successes by African-American filmmakers and actors referred incorrectly to the plot of the 2002 film ''Drumline.'' It is about a black college marching band, not high school.
 A front-page picture with the article carried an incorrect credit from a publicist. The picture, of Terrence Howard in the coming film ''Hustle & Flow,'' was by John Singleton and was supplied by Paramount Classics and MTV Films.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Terrence Howard plays a sympathetic pimp who dreams of the rap life in ''Hustle & Flow.'' (Photo by Alan Spearman/Crunk Pictures)(pg. 1)
Films with African-American principals that found a large white audience: Clockwise from right, Tyra Ferrell and Cuba Gooding Jr. in ''Boyz N the Hood'' (1991)
Ice Cube, with cap, in ''Barbershop'' (2002)
Will Smith in the romantic comedy ''Hitch'' (2005)
Samuel L. Jackson, standing, in ''Coach Carter'' (2005). (Photos by top and left, Columbia Pictures
above, Associated Press
 far left, Paramount)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); HORROR FILMS (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); WRITERS (72%); TICKET SALES (70%); RAP MUSIC (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Blacks

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: WILL SMITH (58%); TYLER PERRY (58%) Ta-Nehisi Coates; Tim Story

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



223 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: You Can Call It a Fairness Opinion, But That Wouldn't Be Fair

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
FAIRNESS opinions may be fairer than many of their critics think.
 In recent months, fairness opinions -- the reports banks provide to clients to justify a proposed merger or acquisition -- have come under attack as conflict-ridden fig leaves. On Tuesday, Wall Street and its fairness opinions will be put on trial when shareholders vote on Procter & Gamble's $57 billion acquisition the Gillette, a transaction that has been criticized in some circles as shortchanging Gillette's shareholders.
William F. Galvin, the Massachusetts secretary of state and a would-be Eliot Spitzer, has not-so-subtly taken Goldman Sachs and UBS to task for their fairness opinions on the deal. He has accused both firms, which advised Gillette, of rubber-stamping the sale at what he contends is a below-market price in order to receive a huge payday. 
 He started an investigation two months ago that so far has not turned up any evidence of nefarious behavior, despite hauling up several high-profile executives -- including Henry M. Paulson Jr., Goldman Sachs's chief executive -- to Boston to give testimony.
 But critics of fairness opinions, including Mr. Galvin, who is expected to run for governor, sometimes talk as if they had never read one -- or understood their purpose. 
 For better or worse, a fairness opinion is not a guarantee that that a deal is truly fair or good. It is simply a document that reviews a deal's valuation, compares it with the valuations of similar deals and says it's within the parameters. For this reason alone, the banks that issue so-called fairness opinions would be much better served if they called them what they are: valuation reviews. 
 Boards of directors use fairness opinions as a data point in deciding whether to vote for or against a deal. But perhaps more important, boards use the opinions as evidence that they fulfilled their fiduciary duty in properly reviewing a deal should they be forced to defend themselves against the lawsuit that almost inevitably follows a transaction.
 To be sure, the current fairness-opinion process is hardly perfect, and reforms are necessary, as this column has said. Late last month, the National Association of Securities Dealers proposed new rules that would require greater disclosure to shareholders about the financial relationship between the company and the bank providing the fairness opinion. The new rules are subject to approval by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 But some, including Mr. Galvin, seem to be taking the issue too far. There has been, for example, the obvious suggestion that companies would be better off using independent banks -- ones that have no other relationship with the client -- to provide fairness opinions. A few folks have even proposed creating an entire class of boutique banks dedicated to providing fairness opinions.
 But routinely calling in so-called independent banks to provide fairness opinions may actually create more problems than it solves -- though there are clearly times when a conflict is so great that an additional investment bank should be brought in to review a transaction. (A good example is when a bank is representing a seller and is also acting as a lender to the buyer, a practice called staple financing.) 
 How can independent opinions be bad? It may seem counterintuitive, but so-called independent banks may be more likely to rubber-stamp a fairness opinion than one of the banks with a long-term relationship with the client because independent banks that do nothing but fairness opinions have so much more to lose by offending the companies that hire them. 
 Think about it: If an ''independent'' firm was called in to issue a fairness opinion and refused to do so, who would hire it again? As a result, ''independent'' banks in practice are often the very definition of ''dependent.''
 Other proposed cures for what ails fairness opinions may not be this counterproductive, but they are not likely to be effective, either. Consider the idea that banks should be paid a flat fee, rather than a contingent fee, to issue fairness opinions. A recent study by two finance and economics professors at Columbia University, Charles W. Calomiris and Donna M. Hitscherich, examined how banks that were paid each type of fee valued companies and found no statistical difference. ''Everybody and their brother is dog-piling on the fee structures and the relationships,'' Ms. Hitscherich said. ''But the data doesn't bear that out.'' 
 Mr. Galvin has been waving around his own academic report about the Gillette deal that he says raises questions about those types of relationships. The report implies that Goldman Sachs and UBS were so intent on making the Gillette deal happen that their judgment was clouded. 
 The report, which Mr. Galvin had commissioned from Rajesh K. Aggarwal, an associate professor of commerce at the University of Virginia, concluded that the fairness opinions were reasonable and valid, but raised questions about ''substantial discrepancies'' between the public and private statements the companies made, estimating the merger's value. 
 In particular, Mr. Aggarwal noted that the companies publicly said that they would save a projected $14 billion to $16 billion on revenue and cost ''synergies'' as a result of the merger, while Gillette privately put the estimated savings at $22.1 billion to $28.1 billion.
 Mr. Galvin has argued that higher savings made the merger more valuable to Procter & Gamble, and, as a result, Gillette's shareholders are being grossly underpaid. He seems to suggest that the ''substantial discrepancies'' in synergy savings -- a notoriously unreliable commodity in any case -- are an example of some kind of fraud.
 But there is another, more likely, explanation for those numbers. Gillette was trying to sell itself, and just like a homeowner or anyone else trying to sell an expensive asset, the people running Gillette emphasized the positive. Not surprisingly, Gillette's internal savings projections -- which the banks used as the basis for their fairness opinions -- were higher than those presented by Procter & Gamble when the deal was announced. 
 And what's so unfair about that?

DealBook covers the news of deals daily by e-mail. A free subscription is available at nytimes.com/dealbook.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (79%); ETHICS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); WITNESSES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); GOVERNORS (58%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Suits and Litigation; Ethics

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Gillette Co; Procter & Gamble Co; Goldman Sachs Group; Ubs Ag; Gillette Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%); HENRY PAULSON (55%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; William F Galvin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



224 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: As a Gold Mine Prepares to Close, Montana Argues Over the Hole in the Ground

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: WHITEHALL, Mont. 

 BODY:
First, there was Bull Mountain. Through all the ages of human striving and much that came before, it sat here in southwest Montana, silently enshrouding a treasure in fine-particle gold buried deep beneath its flanks.
 Then, beginning in 1982, came the hole -- an open-pit gold mine called the Golden Sunlight that has scooped out 400 million tons of Bull Mountain rock. The Chrysler Building and the Washington Monument could slide down the gullet of the great pit, one atop the other, and would only just peek above the old ridgeline like a periscope.
 But what happens next, as the Golden Sunlight mine approaches the end of its working life, is not so obvious or stark, though it is a question likely to echo across the West as older mines close: should the mountain be put back together again or left an open hole for all time? 
 Many environmentalists say the hole should be filled, but Montana state environmental regulators are leaning toward leaving the pit open, and expect to reach a decision this fall that may ultimately be reviewed by the State Supreme Court. 
 The mine's owner, Placer Dome Inc., based in Vancouver, British Columbia, has already pledged $54 million for mine closing and cleanup beginning in 2009, when it expects that most of the gold will be gone. But the company would see its costs double if it had to backfill. It also says filling in the mine would be a bad idea because of grave risks to groundwater.
 History, many people here in southwest Montana say, is the invisible mover in the debate, because either option -- to fill, or not to fill -- touches the deep and ragged scars that the mining industry has left over the last century on the state's landscape, economy and psyche.
 ''Montana is full of examples where a company came in and got its money and the public is paying for the reclamation,'' said Kim Wilson, a lawyer for a coalition of environmental groups that is suing the state to force backfilling. ''Our basic position is that if you can't reclaim, it you shouldn't mine it.''
 No national standards exist for how to close down the nation's 140 or so open-pit metal mines, most of which are in the West. Only California, since 2002, has required backfilling of such mines. 
 Coal mining operations in the United States, by contrast, have been required by federal law since the 1970's to fill their pits. But the law on metal mining, which was passed by Congress 133 years ago, remains silent on the question, and that has created a regulatory vacuum. 
 Montana's struggle over the Golden Sunlight mine has also been compounded by legal uncertainty. The State Constitution, redrafted in the early 1970's, says that all mine lands must be ''reclaimed.'' The State Legislature, meanwhile, has given greater latitude to mine regulators. A lawsuit filed by environmentalists hoping to force backfill of the mine is now before the State Supreme Court, which has agreed to hold off on a ruling until the state, along with the federal Bureau of Land Management, reaches a decision.
 Either way the case goes, the millions of tons of rock and earth that came out of Bull Mountain are still here, some piles of it weathered and reseeded with grasses, others fresh and raw from recent extraction. 
 But most environmentalists also agree that backfilling does not make sense in every instance, and that some mines -- in wet areas with certain kinds of rock -- certainly should not be filled. An open-pit mine in Colorado backfilled in the late 1990's, for example, almost immediately began leaking water contaminated by the mine's waste rock. 
 Whether that process -- what one scientist has called ''the Mr. Coffee effect,'' as water and rock percolate in a closed space -- would happen at the Golden Sunlight is at the center of the scientific debate.
 Rocks disturbed during the mining process, especially if they contain sulfides, react with water and oxygen to produce sulfuric acid, scientists say. The acid is a pollutant in itself, and it also eats away at the rock to free other polluting substances like arsenic and mercury. The problem, called acid mine drainage, is prevalent across the West, and has plagued metal mines since at least the days of the Romans. 
 ''The material that would go back in is highly reactive'' said Warren McCullough, the chief of the environmental management bureau at the Montana Department of Environmental Quality. ''The last thing you want to do is expose it to atmospheric oxygen and water by moving it to the pit.''
 What bothers some environmental groups is that in 1998, regulators concluded that backfilling was the best option. The state rejected the idea then as being economically unfeasible. The environmentalists argued that the cost to the company -- which had said that the Golden Sunlight lost money through much of the 1990's -- was not the state's concern, and a judge agreed. The state began a new study and in a preliminary decision came down against backfilling.
 Environmentalists who are pushing to have the pit refilled say state officials are still watching out for the company's welfare.
 ''It's pure, unadulterated spin,'' said James D. Jensen, the executive director of the Montana Environmental Information Center, a group based in Helena and one of the plaintiffs in the backfilling lawsuit. ''The only reason they don't want to reclaim the land there is that it will cost them money.''
 The chief technical adviser to Mr. Jensen's group on the Golden Sunlight case, James R. Kuipers, a former mining industry engineer who is now a consultant in Butte, said he believes the state is using scientific uncertainty about acid drainage as a screen to reach a result that would not cripple one of the state's oldest industries. ''This isn't science, this is industry science,'' Mr. Kuipers said. ''When they want to do something they find a way, and when they don't want to do it, they argue that the uncertainty is too much.''
 Mr. McCullough at the Montana Department of Environmental Quality said that new research was driving the process. ''We were learning more about the reactivity of the rock, the groundwater quality and quantity and the material that would be used for the backfill,'' he said. ''Our scientific position has changed.''
 The Environmental Protection Agency, in its formal comments about the closing plan earlier this year, declined to take a position. But the agency's letter pointed out that the concerns expressed by the state and the company could probably be addressed with more effort.
 ''E.P.A. believes that with improved mitigation, water management and model assumptions that more accurately reflect what is known of the area, adverse impacts from pit backfill to water quality might be avoided,'' the letter said.
 The debate inherent in the Golden Sunlight case, about the costs and consequences of mining, goes back at least a generation in Montana. 
 In the early 1980's, an open-pit copper mine, the Berkeley Pit, half an hour away in Butte, polluted 120 miles of the Clark Fork River with acid drainage, and became one of the nation's first Superfund cleanup sites. In 1998, a Canadian company called Pegasus went spectacularly bankrupt, leaving the state with tens of millions of dollars in cleanup costs for three open-pit mines.
 That same year, Montana voters passed a referendum banning the use of cyanide to recover fine-particle gold, the type of open-pit chemical process that was used by Pegasus mines and that are also used at the Golden Sunlight. 
 Since the Golden Sunlight was already operating, it was exempt from the ban. But if the law survives the various legal challenges that have been lodged against it, legal experts and engineers say, the kind of mine that ate Bull Mountain could probably never open again.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Golden Sunlight mine, above, the open pit reaches a depth of 1,500 feet. Tim Dimock, left, the mine superintendent, walked near a truck used to haul ore from the site to a mill where the gold is extracted. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Map of Montana highlighting Golden Sunlight mine: About 400 million tons of rock has been scooped from the site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINE CLOSINGS (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); COAL MINING (77%); METAL ORE MINING (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); WATER POLLUTION (64%) Gold; Mines and Mining; Water Pollution; Gold

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Placer Dome Inc

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%)

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%) MONTANA, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%) Montana 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



225 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Protest Plan to Cut Military Jobs in Capital Area

BYLINE: By JOHN FILES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9 

 BODY:
The Pentagon's plan to eliminate more than 30,000 jobs in Washington and nearby Arlington, Va., part of its proposal to close dozens of military installations and bases around the country, would have a severe impact on the economy and intellectual resources of the region, lawmakers told military officials this week. 
 About 23,000 jobs would be lost in Arlington as part of a Department of Defense effort to move thousands of military and civilian workers out of leased commercial high-rise buildings near the Pentagon in northern Virginia -- abandoning more than four million square feet of office space -- to more-secure locations. Thousands of the jobs would shift to military bases farther away from Washington, in Virginia and Maryland.
 Washington is scheduled to lose more than 6,000 jobs, about 5,600 of them if the 96-year-old Walter Reed Army Medical Center, where hundreds of thousands of American soldiers and several presidents have been treated, is closed. 
 As a result, Bethesda, Md., another Washington suburb, is expected to gain nearly 2,000 jobs, many of them coming from Walter Reed. The Pentagon's plan calls for closing the hospital and building a national military medical center on the campus of the naval medical center there at a cost of $1 billion. 
 Local officials and lawmakers from Virginia and Washington challenged the plan on Thursday at a hearing on Capitol Hill before the Base Realignment and Closure Commission, the independent panel that is assessing the Pentagon's proposed list of domestic base closings.
 Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said the Pentagon's proposal for moving jobs out of Northern Virginia might not be legal.
 ''The goal to vacate leased office space was the guiding principle for many of these recommendations -- not military value, cost savings or any other legislated criteria,'' Mr. Warner said. ''This is not permitted by law.''
 When the commission announced its schedule of public hearings in May, it did not plan one for Washington. But pressure from lawmakers here and in Virginia persuaded the panel's chairman, Anthony J. Principi, a former secretary of veterans affairs, to allow them to present their reasons for altering the base-closing plan.
 After the hearing, Mr. Principi said the panel would review the arguments made by the officials and a 36-page report prepared by Mr. Warner's staff.
 The Pentagon's proposal calls for closing nearly 180 installations and offices, including 33 big bases, in the first major restructuring of the nation's military network in a decade. It is part of a broad effort to revamp the armed services into a leaner, more agile force. 
 For the Washington area, the plan would mean a net loss of about 10,000 jobs in a region that employs nearly three million workers. But the changes reflect the precarious give-and-take that will occur around Washington if the commission approves the Pentagon's proposal. 
 ''There are unique and critical military research capabilities in Northern Virginia that will be impaired by the proposal,'' Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia said, citing intelligence and research entities like the Missile Defense Agency, the Defense Information Systems Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency as examples. 
 Representative James P. Moran, Democrat of Virginia, whose district includes Arlington, said the plan would cause a ''brain drain'' in the region, with a loss of scientists, engineers and computer specialists that would be counterproductive for the military. 
 ''These decisions are supposed to be based on an effort to improve the mission, effectiveness and overall efficiency of the military,'' Mr. Moran said. ''The Pentagon's proposal does not do this. In particular, it makes communication and collaboration more difficult.'' 
 Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington's nonvoting delegate to the House, said the Pentagon's proposal would ''rejuggle the region and turn it upside down.'' The effects on the city, she said, would be particularly harsh.
 ''A city without a state cannot simply absorb the loss of military, civilian and contractor jobs,'' Ms. Norton said. ''States can assist its jurisdictions when they suffer losses, but the District of Columbia is an orphan here.
 ''We have two industries here -- government and its military partners and tourism,'' she added. ''We are losing a big chunk of the government and our economy if Walter Reed closes. We must do all we can to turn this proposal back.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MILITARY BASES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARMIES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CLOSINGS (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); NAVIES (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); HOSPITALS (68%) United States Armament and Defense; Shutdowns (Institutional); Military Bases and Installations; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Labor; United States Armament and Defense; Layoffs and Job Reductions

ORGANIZATION: Walter Reed Army Medical Center

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (79%) John Files; John W (Sen) Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Arlington (Va); Washington (DC); Bethesda (Md)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



226 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: Harlem (Housing Woes) on His Mind

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
A FEW months after the Republicans took control in Washington in 2001, Keith Boykin, a writer and former aide to President Clinton, decided to pull up stakes in the capital and begin a new life in Harlem, in search of affordable rent and connections to his African-American roots.
 He found a charming one-bedroom floor-through on the second floor of a narrow 15-foot-wide brownstone on West 131st Street, just off Fifth Avenue, that was only $1,000 a month, with a living room facing the street, a bedroom in the back and room for a tiny but neat kitchen in between.
At first, everything seemed fine. He signed a one-year lease with the building's managers, Blanchard & Markus, and in June 2001, he moved in and painted the apartment in shades of ocher and brown. A helpful handyman, Clarence Wade, lived downstairs and took care of the building. 
 But four months later, the illusion of normality was shattered when the hallway lights were shut down because neither the mysterious owner, a fraudulent offshoot of a defunct California church, nor the managers had paid the electric bill. Power was restored, but it happened again and again. 
 That was just the beginning of four frustrating years of living in an apartment that was plunged into foreclosure and then taken over by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. His building was caught up in a notorious mortgage scandal in which shady mortgage brokers, engineers and appraisers used phony churches and other not-for-profit groups to buy more than 500 deteriorated brownstones in long-troubled neighborhoods at inflated prices. They got federally guaranteed mortgages to buy and rehabilitate them, and then walked way with the money.
 But five years after the scandal first came to light, it continues to tear at the fabric of life in Harlem and in Bedford-Stuyvesant and Bushwick in Brooklyn. Many tenants continue to live in these buildings and wait for an ambitious but slow government plan to rehabilitate them, while their neighbors fume over the presence of such run-down buildings in rapidly gentrifying neighborhoods.
 Through years of court hearings and bureaucratic delay, many tenants have lived in a state of uncertainty, surviving with little or no services. Some never paid rent but were forced instead to collect money to pay for heating oil and utilities and take out the trash themselves. At the same time, a variety of management companies, some with no clear connection to the buildings, others hired and replaced by banks or by HUD, sought to collect rent and sometimes cobble together services in broken-down buildings. 
 Mr. Boykin, who edited the college newspaper at Dartmouth and graduated from Harvard Law School, is hardly typical of the low-income tenants, some living in single rooms, who occupied most of the brownstones caught in the scandal. A special assistant to the president who worked in the White House press office in the early years of the Clinton administration, he was once considered a prime suspect as the anonymous author of ''Primary Colors,'' an unflattering portrait of a presidential campaign (written, it turned out, by Joe Klein).
 But his story shows both the desperate lengths New Yorkers will go through to keep a good deal, and the lasting damage that abusive housing practices can have on the lives of individuals and the stability of a neighborhood, despite significant efforts by city and federal housing agencies to begin to undo the damage.
 That is not to say that, for some tenants, the scandal did not have both good and bad sides. On one hand, Mr. Boykin (and his neighbors) have paid little or no rent for years, because there seemed to be no one to pay it to, and no penalty for not paying. It was a subsidy as valuable to him as a grant, helping him to make ends meet while he researched his new book, ''Beyond the Down Low: Sex, Lies, and Denial in Black America,'' published in February by Carroll & Graf. 
 On the other hand, last February, an electrician, called in to clean up wiring in the building, disconnected the power to his apartment, which remained dark for four months. It went on again recently only after a reporter called Consolidated Edison for comment; the utility had previously turned aside Mr. Boykin's requests for help. 
 When the power first went off, Mr. Boykin had been traveling on a publicity tour for his book or staying with a close friend. But with his friend's lease about to expire, he was increasingly desperate to get back to his home.
 ''If you can imagine a building where crook after crook came in claiming to own the building and they didn't and then HUD comes in as your savior and they do this, you would be very disappointed too,'' he said. 
 Before power was restored, he was caught in a Catch-22. Con Edison would install a new meter only if an electrician hired by the building owner certified that the wiring met standards. HUD would not call an electrician unless Mr. Boykin paid more than $5,000 in back rent, including payments for the period in which he had no electricity. It insisted he sign a month-to-month lease, which he worried would give it the right to evict him as soon as he paid the back rent.
 And when he went to Housing Court, in a case that is still pending, lawyers for HUD argued that he had no right to sue the federal government in a state court. But a few days later, it sent him an eviction notice, citing the provisions of state housing law.
 Joseph Petta, a spokesman for Consolidated Edison, would not discuss Mr. Boykin's account, but he confirmed that getting the power turned back on was the responsibility of the building owner, in this case HUD. ''The owner of the building needs to get an electrician to come in,'' he said.
 Adam Glantz, a spokesman for HUD, said that Mr. Boykin was one of many problem tenants who have to face the possibility of eviction for refusing to pay rent at properties taken over by the federal government. ''He is basically considered a noncooperative tenant,'' Mr. Glantz said. ''He paid no rent or electric bill for four years.'' 
 When the scandal began to unravel, the building, along with about 50 others, was taken over by a group with a connection to a trustee of St. Stephen's Baptist Church, a defunct church that had obtained what investigators said were illegal HUD mortgages. 
 There were Lew Markus and his firm, Blanchard & Markus, which ran the buildings, until it was removed by the courts in foreclosure proceedings, and tried to collect rent, and Burton N. Pugach, a 78-year-old former lawyer, who tried to delay the foreclosures, and to this day insists the church trustees were ''dupes'' who were tricked by other shady characters. 
 Mr. Pugach was disbarred in the 1960's after hiring three men to throw lye in the face of his girlfriend (whom he married after serving a 14-year prison term). And Mr. Markus was convicted and served time in federal prison last year in connection with an unrelated mortgage fraud in New Jersey. 
 Mr. Markus said they were brought in by a church trustee, Edward McDonald, who got in touch when he was facing potential criminal charges. In exchange for helping him defend himself, they said, they got to run the buildings and keep the proceeds of any sales to cover their costs.
 Together, Mr. Markus and Mr. Pugach, who describes himself as a paralegal, carried out a relentless campaign to stop foreclosures at the buildings, hoping to sell them at a high enough price to make a profit. 
 By fighting the foreclosures on behalf of St. Stephen's, they hoped to undermine the government's claim that the church's mortgages were fraudulent. Charges against Mr. McDonald were later dropped, while three figures in the scandal were sentenced to prison. (Investigators say some prosecutions were undermined when key documents were destroyed in HUD offices at the World Trade Center.)
 While other groups of owners dropped out as soon as the scandal was uncovered, Mr. Pugach went from court to court trying to stop or at least delay the St. Stephen's foreclosures. When Blanchard & Markus was removed as manager by the courts, it sued to be reinstated, and Mr. Boykin has a file of letters from a variety of management companies that claimed to manage the building and sought rent payments. 
 So far, Mr. Markus and Mr. Pugach have been able to sell 13 buildings, for a profit, after paying off the mortgages and foreclosure fees, Mr. Markus said. Mr. Pugach said the sales were made with the cooperation of the original church trustees. While they made some money, ''it did not make us rich,'' Mr. Markus said.
 Asked why the management company did not provide more services in the buildings, Mr. Markus said, ''In a lot of these buildings, there was no one paying rent.'' 
 One of the more active tenants in Mr. Boykin's building was the handyman, Mr. Wade, who took the lead in organizing tenants to collect money to pay the hallway electric bills when power to the common areas was shut down, now and again, for nonpayment.
 But one day, Mr. Wade disappeared. Mr. Boykin later learned that he had been arrested and convicted of molesting neighborhood children in his apartment. Mr. Wade was sentenced to 61 years in prison after several children testified against him at his sentencing hearing. It turned out that Mr. Wade, like Mr. Boykin, had moved to New York from Washington -- in Mr. Wade's case after he had served seven years in prison for molesting children there.
 The brownstone on West 131st Street, like many buildings caught up in the scandal, had been in trouble before. In 1977, at a time when the city was in a deep economic decline, a bank foreclosed on the property and turned it over to the federal government. Four years later, HUD sold it for $10,000 to Milton Robbins, an aircraft mechanic, who in March 1999 sold it for $150,000. It was resold the same day for $370,000 to the St. Stephen's Community Development Corporation, which obtained a $369,000 mortgage guaranteed by HUD. By flipping the property and working with shady appraisers, the conspirators were able to obtain bigger mortgages, law enforcement officials said. By the following year, foreclosure proceedings had begun against the building.
 Mr. Boykin chose the neighborhood, and his block, in part because of its central role in African-American culture. Next door was the home of Philip A. Payton Jr., a black real estate broker who has been depicted as ''the father of Harlem.''
 After a foreclosure sale last September, the building was turned over to HUD, which had guaranteed the mortgage to buy and rehabilitate the property. Nevertheless, Mr. Boykin said he was completely ignored by HUD and the managing agents it brought in for months, until he complained about the power shutdown.
 They then offered him a lease but had no idea how much rent he paid or that he had once agreed to pay $1,000 a month. ''I asked the other tenants how much they were paying, and they said $650, so I said $650 and they said yes,'' he said.
 But they wanted back rent, too. The stalemate continued until late last month, when Con Edison decided to send its own inspector to look at the wiring, after a reporter called to ask about the issue. A meter was installed and the power turned back on in late June, and Mr. Boykin began paying rent but has not yet signed a lease.
 Both sides are looking to settle. Mr. Boykin worries about being forced out, but still holds out slim hopes that he and his neighbors could benefit from the ambitious but much-delayed plans worked out by HUD and the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development to rebuild the scandal houses and preserve them as affordable housing. Some of the scandal houses -- not all of them in Harlem -- have already been painstakingly rehabilitated.
 On Halsey Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Alfred Faber rented a room 30 years ago in a rooming house, then got two rooms and finally an entire floor. When the building became caught up in the scandal, he collected money from other tenants to buy heating oil and pay the electric bill.
 Mr. Faber, who works in the garment industry, has signed a contract to buy the four-story building for $410,000. It has been renovated by the Pratt Area Community Council, which preserved its huge mirrored fireplaces, and has been appraised at more than $900,000. 
 ''I had to fight for it,'' Mr. Faber said. ''I had been there too long and I wasn't going to let them deny me the right to purchase.''
 In all, Mr. Glantz of HUD said that several dozen houses have been completely renovated, while nearly 191 others have been turned over to developers. Another 220, including Mr. Boykin's building, are now owned by HUD, awaiting transfer to developers.
 Mr. Boykin has been examining city home-ownership programs and would love to see his building converted into a limited-income co-op, or find a way to buy it himself. But Mr. Glantz said his building is scheduled to be rehabilitated by a private developer, who would offer below market rents, and who, despite Mr. Boykin's fears, would be required to protect the current tenants.
 Mr. Boykin originally went to Harlem to research a book about the perils of gentrification. But after he moved in and lived in the neighborhood, he came to the conclusion that gentrification had some pluses -- for example, bringing banks, groceries and services to a neighborhood. Now he finds himself making inquiries about buying other buildings on his block, as newcomers have done. ''I realized,'' he said, ''it was a lot more complicated than I had thought.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ERRATIC ELECTRICITY -- Keith Boykin lost power for months in the aftermath of a mortgage fraud scandal that has left his Harlem home in limbo. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A HAPPY OUTCOME -- Alfred Faber, left, is buying a building in Bedford-Stuyvesant that has now been renovated. He has been there for 30 years. ''I had to fight for it,'' Mr. Faber said. ''I had been there too long, and I wasn't going to let them deny me the right to purchase.''
 FRUSTRATIONS -- Keith Boykin, middle, moved into a Harlem town house in the middle of a row typical of the neighborhood. It was caught up in the mortgage scandal and has periodically been without electricity. It also had a hole in the floor that was recently repaired. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCANDALS (87%); WRITERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); CITIES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); POWER FAILURES (66%); RELIGION (66%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (64%); LAWYERS (61%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Housing; Frauds and Swindling; Mortgages; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing and Urban Development Department

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) Josh Barnabel; Keith Boykin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Harlem (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



227 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: In Troubled Detroit, Mayor's Race Is a Referendum on Style

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 9 

 BODY:
The day after Kwame M. Kilpatrick was elected mayor in 2001, he put his diamond stud back in his left ear. 
 In a downtrodden city where older residents are a dominant voting bloc because so many younger people have left, Mr. Kilpatrick, 34, spent much of the campaign playing the hopeful grandson. Four years later, he is himself looking for redemption, dogged by scandal and trailing in the polls just weeks ahead of the city's nonpartisan primary on Aug. 2. 
 The increasingly contentious race is shaping up as a referendum on the contrasting styles of the current mayor and his lower-profile predecessor, Dennis Archer, whose former deputy, Freman Hendrix, is the current front-runner. A third contender is Sharon McPhail, a member of the City Council, which has frequently feuded with the mayor, most recently over how to close a $300 million budget deficit. All three candidates are Democrats. 
 Mr. Kilpatrick, often referred to as Detroit's hip-hop mayor, is a sartorially bold former college football lineman, part P. Diddy, part Bill Clinton. He is best known for controversies: having his cash-strapped city pay $25,000 to lease his family a Lincoln Navigator and accumulating thousands of dollars of questionable charges on the city's credit card. Time magazine recently named him one of the nation's three worst mayors. 
 Mr. Hendrix, 54, is a career civil servant, tall and lanky, a polished politician making hay with Mr. Kilpatrick's shortcomings. 
 ''Four years ago, Detroiters heard the promise, 'Right here, right now,''' Mr. Hendrix said in an interview on Thursday, referring to the mayor's last campaign slogan. '''Oh yeah, we're going to do this, do that.' 'Oh yeah, I'm your grandson.' They heard the promise, they heard the fast talk. This is what they got. Now I think what folks want is some plain speaking, and that's what I'm trying to do.'' 
 Mr. Hendrix spoke while holding the hands of Elizabeth Alexander, 74, and Thelma Bolden, 77, supporters flanking him on a couch, nodding in approval during a campaign stop at a senior center. 
 Criticism has weighed on Mr. Kilpatrick and his political family.
 ''Don't let too many people talk about y'all's boy,'' his mother, Congresswoman Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, is said to have urged a crowd at a recent rally. Her husband, Bernard, compared coverage of his son to treatment of Jews during the Holocaust. He later apologized. 
 ''I think people are trying to win awards on my back,'' Mr. Kilpatrick said in an interview in front of the new downtown headquarters of Compuware. ''Journalists even say to me, 'When you're in the paper, we sell more papers.' I sold more than the 'Michael Jackson is free' issue.'' 
 Mr. Hendrix says Mr. Archer balanced budgets over eight years in office, and he wants to restore fiscal discipline. But Mr. Kilpatrick, who hired a former president of Bank One as chief development officer, said that under Mr. Archer's watch the city government grew by thousands of employees even as its population continued to sink. 
 The population is now below one million, less than half its peak. Mr. Kilpatrick and the City Council have been battling over how best to cut workers and city services. 
 ''We've never planned for the depopulation of the city,'' Mr. Kilpatrick said. ''We kind of went on like it never happened, and this is the first administration to say, hey, we're smaller. Hug yourself.''
 Mr. Kilpatrick will be pitching revitalization on Tuesday, when the Major League Baseball All-Star Game comes to Detroit. For outsiders, it will be difficult to see past the city's most prominent feature: abandonment.
 Detroit fell out of the top 10 largest cities this month, supplanted by San Jose, Calif. That legacy is writ large in hollowed-out buildings downtown and in neighborhoods where the city cannot knock down rotted houses fast enough. Advertising banners will be draped over some facades to mask blight. The city has been further hampered by the decline of the domestic auto industry.
 But there are kernels of progress. There were years in the early 1990's when the city granted so few new housing permits that they could be counted on one hand. This year, more than 1,000 are expected. 
 Several major corporations have moved downtown, and a slip of riverfront around the General Motors headquarters has been made over. Later this year, a major project will begin to extend that development several miles along the Detroit River, with the idea of establishing a pedestrian-friendly riverfront overlooking Canada. The city is also going after developers who have been sitting on major downtown eyesores. 
 ''There's no question he recognizes the importance of General Motors to the future of Detroit,'' said Debbie Dingell, General Motors' director of community relations and the wife of Representative John D. Dingell. ''He has very much tried to focus on economic development on the riverfront.'' 
 Neighborhoods have been far slower to show progress. In the latest blow, the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development took control on Thursday of Detroit's housing authority. But in an interview, the housing secretary, Alphonso R. Jackson, praised Mr. Kilpatrick as a rare mayor who had been cooperative. 
 ''This did not happen on his watch, this has been a systemic problem,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''I couldn't even get the previous mayor to admit that he had a problem. I was consistently arguing with his chief of staff,'' he said, adding, ''I could never get him to keep his promises.''
 That chief of staff would be Mr. Hendrix, who Mr. Jackson said he was not aware was running for mayor. ''You've got to be kidding,'' he said, adding that he in no way meant to endorse any candidate. 
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Hendrix said the candidate could not recall ever talking to Mr. Jackson. 
 Detroit's politics could be described as madcap. One council member, Kay Everett, was accused in a 27-count federal indictment last October of receiving bribes in the form of, among other things, sausage. Ms. Everett died of complications of kidney disease a month later. Ms. McPhail once made headlines for accusing the mayor's administration of rigging a massager in her office chair to shock her. She said in an interview this week that she had been misunderstood. 
 Ms. McPhail, a former prosecutor, has pitched some of the boldest strategies to lure residents back, including using taxes collected from casinos to finance college scholarships for all residents. ''Here's the question: 150,000 left this city under Dennis Archer, Freman Hendrix and Kwame Kilpatrick,'' she said. ''Who's going to buy these houses? Everyone's leaving.''
 In a recent survey of 400 likely voters by the Michigan polling company EPIC/MRA and paid for by a local ABC affiliate, Ms. McPhail received 22 percent of the vote, Mr. Hendrix 33 percent and Mr. Kilpatrick 24 percent. The top two primary finishers square off in November. While the mayor's scandals are on many minds, so are cuts to city services like late-night buses. 
 ''What about the people who work midnights? They can't get on the bus,'' said Yvonne Mantyk, 41, a cashier at a local restaurant who said she will not vote for Mr. Kilpatrick. ''To take our buses in the middle of the night from people who really need them, that's really bad.''
 Bucking the tide, Idella Ward, a 24-year-old loan officer recently returned to Detroit from the suburbs, said she was encouraged by a falling crime rate and signs of development. ''You can see the progress; you can see the change,'' Ms. Ward said. ''Whatever they accuse him of, he made a difference.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick campaigned for re-election last week in Detroit. He will face two challengers in a primary election on Aug. 2.
 Mr. Kilpatrick faces opposition from Sharon McPhail, left, a City Council member, and Freman Hendrix, right, a former deputy mayor. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (67%); RAP MUSIC (67%); WRITERS (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%) Elections; Mayors

ORGANIZATION: Time (Magazine)

PERSON: CAROLYN C KILPATRICK (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (52%) Danny Hakim; Kwame M (Mayor) Kilpatrick; Freman Hendrix; Sharon Mcphail; Dennis Archer

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich); Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



228 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Forrester and Corzine Set a Fast Pace in the Early Going 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 8 

 BODY:
The calendar may say that it is early July, but in New Jersey, the race for governor makes it feel as if it were already October.
 There goes Douglas R. Forrester, holding news conferences at the State House on three consecutive days -- far eclipsing what most governors or legislators here would normally do. One day, he attacks Senator Jon S. Corzine as being too cozy with Democratic power brokers who have been tainted by scandal. Another day, he blasts the Democratic legislators who control state government for failing to pass a budget on time. 
But wait. Here comes Mr. Corzine, offering proposals on health care and the economy and scheduling a news conference on the resignation of Justice Sandra Day O'Connor -- in Trenton, not Washington. Far from remaining above the fray, he says at an event in Atlantic City that ''our opponent runs campaigns that are ugly -- so ugly that not even a reality show makeover can make them look good.''
 With four months to go before the Nov. 8 election, Mr. Corzine remains the favorite to carry a state that has not voted for a Republican in a statewide or national race since 1997. But Democrats and Republicans say the race has been more competitive and fiery than they had anticipated. And both camps also agree that the race will only intensify, considering that both men are expected to spend tens of millions of dollars of their own fortunes.
 As a result, New Jersey voters who are accustomed to watching political candidates keep a low profile until after Labor Day can expect to see Mr. Corzine and Mr. Forrester often this summer, in person and on the air, shoring up major constituencies and amplifying key themes.
 For Mr. Corzine, the strategy entails the kinds of steps that one might expect from a front-runner: Try to stay positive, while presenting serious policy proposals in speeches before receptive crowds like union workers and older voters.
 On Monday, for instance, he visited a hospital in Teaneck to talk about his proposal to provide health care to hundreds of thousands of uninsured residents, which he said would reduce health care costs by 10 percent in three years. The next day, he participated in a roundtable discussion at a hospital in New Brunswick, promoting his plan to promote research, development and economic growth, spurred by the state's pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
 ''They're trying to define Jon as a man of substance, and they're doing a pretty good job on the issues,'' said Rick Thigpen, a Democratic strategist who is not working on the campaign. ''In my opinion, the key for Jon is to energize his base and compete successfully for those independent suburban swing voters.''
 For Mr. Forrester, the campaign strategy revolves around his pledges to reduce property taxes and flush corruption out of Trenton. He is trying to damage Mr. Corzine by linking him to controversial Democrats like George E. Norcross III and former Gov. James E. McGreevey. And he hopes to gain traction by criticizing Mr. Corzine's record in Washington, which he feels has been underwhelming.
 Indeed, Mr. Forrester is expected to hold three news conferences this week across the state, criticizing Mr. Corzine's record.
 ''To stay close, to stay combative, Forrester has to keep New Jerseyans angry -- or at least a sufficient number of New Jerseyans angry,'' said David P. Rebovich, managing director of the Rider University Institute for New Jersey Politics. ''So he has to be out there, pumping his fists, and so far, Forrester is a lot more enthusiastic and animated than he was in 2002.'' Mr. Forrester was defeated by Frank R. Lautenberg in the race for United States Senate that year.
 In a state whose location between two of the nation's biggest media markets -- New York and Philadelphia -- makes television advertising all the more expensive, it is no wonder that money looms as a big factor. And because Mr. Forrester had to endure a bruising primary, he has outspent Mr. Corzine, $11.6 million to $5.4 million, according to records through June 27. 
 One hopeful sign for Mr. Forrester's candidacy is that he has attracted the attention of national Republicans. 
 Last month, Karl Rove, President Bush's top political adviser, joined Mr. Forrester at two fund-raisers; on July 22, Vice President Dick Cheney is scheduled to attend a fund-raiser in Princeton.
 Mr. Corzine, meanwhile, has already done more than previous statewide candidates in courting local officials to speak on his behalf. On Tuesday, for instance, State Senator Barbara Buono criticized Mr. Forrester's property tax plan as unrealistic.
 On Monday, Congressman Robert Menendez is expected to talk about the governor's race at the State House. And one can only assume that he will talk about things that he talked about the last time he was in Trenton, which was but three weeks ago.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas R. Forrester, left, and Senator Jon S. Corzine are shoring up major constituencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); US LABOR DAY (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%) Elections; Governors (US); Election Issues

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) David W Chen; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Douglas R Forrester

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



229 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: NORTH KOREANS AGREE TO RESUME NUCLEAR TALKS

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY and DAVID E. SANGER; Joel Brinkley reported from Beijing for this article, and David E. Sanger from Vermont. Norimitsu Onishi contributed reporting from Tokyo.

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 9 

 BODY:
After more than a year of stalemate, North Korea agreed Saturday evening to return to disarmament talks late this month and pledged to discuss eliminating its nuclear-weapons program, according to senior Bush administration officials.
 The agreement was reached during a dinner meeting, with the Chinese as the hosts, that included Christopher Hill, a former American ambassador to South Korea who has recently become the lead United States negotiator to the talks, and Kim Kye Gwan, North Korea's deputy foreign minister, according to a senior administration official traveling here with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.
 The official Korean Central News Agency also issued a statement from Pyongyang announcing the talks would resume. 
 While the North Koreans have pledged many times before to return to the six-party talks -- the United States, Japan, South Korea, China and Russia also sit at the table -- this is the first time they have actually set a date: the week of July 25.
 The Chinese have offered to be the hosts of the discussions, and ''all the parties have agreed,'' said a senior administration official traveling with Ms. Rice, who did not want to be identified because Ms. Rice had not yet made a formal announcement. Ms. Rice, who is beginning a four-nation tour of Asia, and Li Zhaoxing, the Chinese foreign minister, plan to announce the agreement on Sunday morning. 
 American officials were clearly trying to lower expectations. ''Frankly,'' one of the administration officials said, ''we just don't know'' what will come of the talks, if they do take place as promised. 
 The long-awaited return to negotiations carries considerable diplomatic perils on all sides, and would take place just as three European nations are scheduled to conduct talks with Iran about giving up critical elements of its nuclear program.
 American officials say North Korea's economic situation has continued to deteriorate, and they hope to use that as leverage in the coming talks. To increase the pressure, the Bush administration has put in place plans for a series of coercive actions -- crackdowns on North Korean shipments of drugs, counterfeit currency and arms -- that would probably be accelerated if the negotiations made no progress.
 ''We've made it clear they can't just come back and lecture us, like the last sessions,'' a senior administration official in Washington said. ''Either they get on the path to disarmament, or we move to Plan B.'' 
 But President Bush's options are also limited, officials acknowledge. China has been unwilling to participate in any economic embargos. Military action to halt North Korea's declared efforts to build its nuclear arsenal has been ruled out as too risky, and virtually impossible while American forces are tied up in Iraq. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Bush has been resisting pressure from China and South Korea to improve an offer to the North Koreans he made in June 2004. To avoid failure at the talks, he may have to decide whether to make explicit concessions, including the promise of eventual normalization of relations with a nation that just two months ago he said was run by a ''tyrant'' who puts dissidents in ''concentration camps.''
 In interviews in Washington in recent days, officials have said they fear three major stumbling blocks to an agreement. The first is the question of whether North Korea is willing to negotiate away all elements of its nuclear program. The Bush administration is still sharply divided over whether North Korea would fully cooperate. True disarmament would include turning over any existing nuclear weapons, dismantling the plutonium-manufacturing facilities it has acknowledged -- centered at a huge nuclear complex at Yongbyon, north of the capital -- and leading inspectors to what the United States charges is a second, secret nuclear program.
 That second program, American officials have charged, uses uranium technology provided by A.Q. Khan, the Pakistani scientist who set up an illicit nuclear network and made more than a dozen trips to North Korea.
 ''He's said a lot about what he sold them,'' a former intelligence official said recently, ''and the president isn't going to reach any agreement that doesn't involve turning over all of that, too.'' But North Korea, after initially seeming to acknowledge its uranium program when presented with the charges in 2002, has now denied its existence.
 The second probable stumbling block is timing, American officials say. North Korea does not trust the United States to deliver on its promises if it gives up its nuclear program first. Mr. Bush has said publicly that he does not trust Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader. 
 The third potential problem is verification. North Korea has never allowed inspectors to move freely, and threw out the International Atomic Energy Agency on New Year's Day 2003. A result is that American officials are uncertain where the North may be hiding elements of its program.
 But South Korea has been pressing to make a deal, and its unification minister, Chung Dong Young, met last month with Kim Jong Il and offered him a package of new aid, including much-needed energy assistance, if North Korea returned to the talks and agreed to disarm, American officials have said.
 The senior administration official in Beijing said Saturday that he believed that offer was important and helped bring about the agreement to resume talks. He added that the United States did not agree to any incentives beyond the offer made at the last six-party talks, in June 2004, though he called South Korea's offer ''compatible with ours.'' That fits a previous American strategy of allowing its allies and China to offer more incentives, even while Mr. Bush refuses to budge with American concessions.
 Over the last several months, North Korea set numerous conditions for returning to the talks, including turning them into regional disarmament negotiations. North Korea made that demand after it, on Feb. 10, declared for the first time that it was in possession of nuclear weapons, a statement American intelligence officials say they cannot confirm -- but assume to be true.
 The senior administration official said the North Koreans made no such demand on Saturday in return for restarting the negotiations. 
 Discussions on setting a date began last week when another North Korean official, Li Gun, held a meeting with Joseph E. DeTrani, a State Department official, and diplomats from Japan and South Korea, on the sidelines of an academic conference in New York. The United States had given Mr. Li a visa, clearly to encourage such a discussion.
 There, the senior administration official said, Mr. Li told Mr. DeTrani that North Korea was ready to return to the negotiating table and wanted to set up a meeting to discuss the date and the scope of the talks. After that, Mr. Hill, who is assistant secretary of state for East Asia and Pacific affairs, flew to Beijing for Saturday's dinner just before Ms. Rice's arrival.
 The North, American officials said, was looking for face-saving ways to resume talks. So South Korea urged Mr. Bush and his aides to stop characterizing the North Korean leader as a ''tyrant'' or repeating Ms. Rice's phrase that the country was an ''outpost of tyranny.'' 
 The enforced silence may have helped. The Korean Central News Agency, which speaks with the government's voice, said Saturday, ''The U.S. side clarified its official stand to recognize'' North Korea ''as a sovereign state, not to invade it and hold bilateral talks within the framework of the six-party talks.'' 
 At the dinner in Beijing, the senior administration official said Mr. Hill, a veteran of the Balkans negotiations, promised that ''everyone is equal; we will respect each other.'' On the plane to Beijing on Friday and Saturday, Ms. Rice reiterated a statement she has been making for months that she recognized North Korea as ''a sovereign state.'' She did not repeat her ''outpost of tyranny'' characterization.
 On Saturday, a senior South Korean official, speaking in Seoul, said, ''The North Koreans said that they regard the United States' recognition of their sovereignty and reassurances that it won't invade or attack them as a withdrawal of the previous 'outpost of tyranny' remark.'' 
 The official added: ''They recently received humanitarian assistance from South Korea, which was supplemented by the United States with 50,000 tons of food. It's not a big amount, but it was significant. These factors gave North Korea a certain amount of room to come forward.''
 At the same time as Washington offered tokens of respect, the senior Bush official said the administration also expected the North Koreans to dismantle all of their nuclear energy programs, even though they say some are intended to provide nuclear energy, not weapons. Allowing any nuclear development programs in place would leave a danger of proliferation, the official said. 
 The United States has ended its support of a program to build two nuclear power plants, designed to be unusable to produce weapons fuel, in North Korea that was part of a failed 1994 agreement between the North and the Clinton administration. The construction was halted two years ago, and the United States may suggest conventional power reactors instead. Mr. Bush has been criticized by Democrats and even some members of his own party who have said he has wasted time in the North Korea negotiations by refusing to negotiate directly, as the North Koreans had demanded. Mr. Hill's dinner meeting was the closest approximation of a direct negotiation to date, though former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell had a brief discussion on the sides of a meeting with a North Korean official several years ago.
 While Secretary Rice knew as she flew to Beijing that the dinner between Mr. Hill and Mr. Kim was planned, she was not at all certain that an agreement would be reached, the administration official said. Speaking to reporters on the flight, Ms. Rice said she was ''prepared to hear what the Chinese are prepared to do'' to persuade the North Koreans to return. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); TERRORISM (59%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KIM JONG IL (58%) Joel Brinkley; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



230 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: A Contest's Opening Insinuation

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: LYNDHURST 

 BODY:
IT is a place that takes pride in being average.
 Of medium size, nestled among the other towns and cities of swampy south Bergen County, Lyndhurst is invariably described as ''hard working,'' ''middle class'' and, above all, ''down to earth'' by its civic leaders, who apply the same terms to its residents.
But there is one way in which the average nature of this predominantly white and Italian township makes it somewhat exceptional: it is one of the most reliable political bellwethers in the state. Indeed, one electoral district has been such a perfect predictor of statewide elections that television news media crews have regularly used it as an inexpensive alternative to statewide exit polling on election night. 
 Lyndhurst, in other words, is a swing township -- with its voters more or less evenly divided between conservative-minded Democrats and Republicans who are even more conservative minded -- and one that Douglas Forrester will be looking to win if he is to upset his Democratic opponent, Senator Jon S. Corzine, in November's gubernatorial election. In early opinion polls, Mr. Corzine has been running ahead of Mr. Forrester by 7 to 10 percentage points.
 ''To win, you have to do well here,'' said Richard DiLascio, mayor of this township of 20,000 residents, who is also chairman of the local Republican Party. ''For Forrester, winning places like this are going to be essential.''
 In the past, voters in Lyndhurst have tended to lean Republican in local elections, though they have rallied behind the campaigns of labor-friendly Democrats such as former governors James E. McGreevey and Jim Florio. Yet after scandals, unpopular decisions or economic downturns, voters have unhesitatingly turned to Republican alternatives like Thomas H. Kean and Christie Whitman. 
 As this year's gubernatorial campaign begins to unfold, there seems to be a perception among some longtime residents that Mr. Corzine, at least for now, is something of a default choice in much the same way as the Democrats before him.
 ''My feeling just from what I hear people say is that Corzine is unbeatable,'' said Joe Mallone, the 60-year-old owner of San Carlo Fine Catering, who described himself as a registered Democrat who usually votes Republican. ''So I don't know if it's going to be much of a race. Not unless there's some earth-shattering scandals.''
 Therein lies the key for Mr. Forrester, who will have to find a way to make Mr. Corzine unappealing to people like Mr. Mallone. Indeed, Mr. Forrester -- a successful businessman from West Windsor -- has already made clear by his initial campaign strategy that he intends to do just that, focusing relentlessly on Mr. Corzine's relationships with Democratic power brokers like George E. Norcross III, the de facto leader of South Jersey Democrats, to whom Mr. Corzine has contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions.
 Within days of capturing the Republican nomination, Mr. Forrester showed up at various locations trying to link Mr. Corzine with Mr. Norcross and Charles Kushner, a developer and major Democratic contributor who pleaded guilty to witness intimidation after hiring a prostitute to videotape a sexual encounter with his brother-in-law. 
 The result, Mr. Forrester's supporters hope, will be to paint a picture of Mr. Corzine as different as possible from that of the squeaky-clean and pleasant -- if somewhat eccentric -- man who has enjoyed consistently high approval ratings since he was elected to the United States Senate in 2000. (Mr. Corzine managed to capture almost 300 more votes in Lyndhurst than his Republican opponent in that election, Representative Bob Franks.)
 But will it work this time?
 For now, Mr. DiLascio is not sure. As he sees it, everything depends on what sort of connection the candidates form with local voters, who, above all, unwaveringly stick by politicians they consider to be one of their own. 
 As an example, Mr. DiLascio, who is a lawyer, said that voters here were intensely loyal to former Senator Robert G. Torricelli, who withdrew in the late stages of his re-election campaign in 2002 amid ethical questions and a federal investigation into his fund-raising practices.
 ''He was this hard-working Italian guy who spent a lot of time in the district, and people really felt like they could approach him, and that he was like them,'' Mr. DiLascio said of Mr. Torricelli, who was himself a product of Bergen County politics. ''They'd vote for Torricelli today if he were running for something.''
 And of course, Mr. Torricelli's opponent -- who was ahead of him in the polls when the senator dropped out of that race -- was Mr. Forrester.
 The good news for Mr. Forrester this time around is that Mr. Corzine is not Italian and, with a personal fortune in the hundreds of millions of dollars from his year as co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, can hardly pass as a blue-collar man of the people. 
 The bad news for Mr. Forrester, who is expected to spend around $30 million by the time the campaign is over, is that he hardly comes off as a working-class hero himself. And so while both men are self-made millionaires from relatively humble beginnings, local Democrats say that it is Mr. Forrester, and not Mr. Corzine, who has a patrician air about him. 
 ''You have two millionaires who are running, but Forrester looks and acts like a millionaire, while Corzine is like someone out of central casting for a guy from New Jersey,'' said Louis Stellato, a funeral home director and former mayor here who is now chairman of the local Democratic Party. ''He looks and talks to you like he knew you your whole life, and makes people here think he's genuinely concerned.''
 Mr. Stellato also said that he doubted that insinuations about Mr. Corzine's close ties to Democratic bosses would hurt him in a place like Lyndhurst.
 ''When Forrester was going after Torricelli, there was a situation at least where people could see that he did something wrong,'' Mr. Stellato said. ''But this, saying that Corzine has a connection to George Norcross? If we go out on the corner and ask people here who George Norcross is, we'd see that it's just not an issue. It might dent Corzine's armor a little, but mostly it will look like a smear campaign.''
 Of course, November is still a long way off, and the residents of Lyndhurst and the rest of southern Bergen County will be seeing and hearing a lot more from both candidates over the next few months.
 And although a number of interviews made it clear that few people here are paying close enough attention to have made firm judgments about the candidates, it seems that the attacks on Mr. Corzine have not stuck, at least not yet.
 ''I'm not really following closely enough to know a lot about the rumors about Corzine, so I don't really have an opinion about corruption,'' Mr. Mallone said. ''But my gut feeling is that he's above that.''
 As Mr. Mallone put it, ''I haven't been in the presence of either candidate yet, and I think that's what people here are waiting to see.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: As Lyndhurst goes. Mayor Richard DiLascio, left, chairman of the local Republican Party and a former mayor, Louis Stellato, chairman of the local Democratic Party. (Photographs by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) Elections; Governors (US); Public Opinion

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%) Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Douglas Forrester; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey; Lyndhurst (Nj)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



231 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Who Bears The Risks Of Terror?

BYLINE: By Edmund L. Andrews

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IF nothing else, the synchronized bombings and bloodshed in London on Thursday will stifle any creeping complacency about the risks of terrorist attacks.
 The London bombings dovetail with a major political battle, just starting in Washington, about how to deal with that risk. Specifically, should the federal government continue to be the main provider of terrorism risk insurance?
At issue is the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, which was enacted in response to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and is set to expire at the end of this year. 
 The law obligates the government to reimburse insurance companies for most of their insured losses -- up to $100 billion a year -- that arise from terrorism.
 The issue is crucial to New York City, which bore the brunt of the Sept. 11 attacks, as well as to other major cities like Los Angeles and Chicago that offer high-visibility targets.
 Insurance companies, commercial real estate developers, construction companies and virtually all of New York's political and business leadership are lobbying hard for a renewal.
 But the Bush administration and Congressional Republican leaders are opposed to extending the legislation. In a report on June 30, the Treasury Department declared that private insurers were ready to shoulder the task and that the government should get out of the way.
 Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader, immediately endorsed that conclusion, saying that ''any solution must depend on the ingenuity of private insurance markets.'' And the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, said that the need for federal help had ''run its course.''
 Part of the political battle now is between urban and Democratic-leaning states, like New York and California, and Republican-leaning states in the Midwest and South that may have fewer high-profile targets.
 But the battle also poses fundamental economic questions about who should bear risks against catastrophic events.
 Insurance companies offer protection against losses from hurricanes and earthquakes. What is so different about terrorism? And if taxpayers foot the bill for terrorism losses, will companies that face such threats have less incentive to bolster their security in advance?
 Supporters of the current law contend that the potential losses are so big and so unpredictable that private insurance would either become prohibitively expensive or dry up. If that happened, they warn, commercial development in major cities would slow to a crawl, businesses would relocate and jobs would disappear.
 The attacks of 9/11 did set new records for a catastrophe. Total insured losses, including property, life and liability claims, are expected to total $31.7 billion, according to the Insurance Information Institute. That would far eclipse the $20 billion in property losses that stemmed from Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
 Indeed, one vocal supporter of extending the federal law is R. Glenn Hubbard, a former chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers who is now dean of the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University.
 A report last year by Mr. Hubbard and Bruce Deal, a principal of the Analysis Group consultancy, warned that ''the extreme and unpredictable losses associated with catastrophic terrorism cannot be borne by the private sector alone.'' The report was financed by the insurance industry.
 Failure to renew the law, Mr. Hubbard and Mr. Deal said, would cost the overall economy about $53 billion in lost economic activity and lead to 326,000 fewer jobs.
 But the actual evidence is less clear. Despite the breathtaking losses that property and casualty insurers shouldered in 2001, the losses were hardly off the charts, and their overall financial position is as strong today as it was before the attacks.
 THE ''combined ratio'' -- the ratio of insured losses to income from premiums for property and casualty insurers -- soared to 115 percent in 2001. But that was no higher than after Hurricane Andrew in 1992 and lower than in two other years. 
 To be sure, one effect of Hurricane Andrew was that insurance companies significantly scaled back the coverage they offered. That could happen in the case of terrorism insurance. Indeed, the Treasury Department predicted in its report that the short-term effect of ending the federal terrorism insurance program would be less insurance provided, and at higher prices. In the long term, it added, ''we expect that the private market will develop additional terrorism insurance capacity.'' 
 Since 2001, property and casualty companies have bounced back very well. Income from premiums has climbed, investment returns have increased and the industry's net worth reached a new high in 2004 of $369 billion -- $50 billion higher than it was in 2000, the year before the 9/11 attacks, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
 One of the leading critics of terrorism risk insurance is Kent Smetters, now an associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, who helped design the original program while at the Treasury Department.
 ''The fact is that insurers were coming back into the market, and they are being driven out because of the law,'' he said in an interview.
 At a conference on Friday sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization here, Mr. Smetters noted that insurance losses from product liability claims have been many times higher than those from terrorism, yet insurance companies still offer product liability insurance.
 Mr. Smetters added that the uncertainty surrounding terrorist attacks is not necessarily that much higher than that surrounding earthquakes and hurricanes.
 But the biggest question is this: If the government essentially offers free terrorism insurance, is the nation as a whole deluding itself about the potential costs? If the insurance is free, would companies be tempted to cut corners on security because they didn't have to worry about higher premiums or deductibles? 
 And there is the issue for taxpayers: Unlike an insurance company, Congress is not about to set aside tens of billions of dollars to cover potential losses in the future. If there were a repeat of Sept. 11, the cost would all be borne in the form of future budget deficits.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Insurers' Recovery''Graph tracks property and casualty insurers' net worth, measured in billions, from 1994 through first nine months of 2004.(Source by Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); INSURANCE (92%); LOBBYING (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); WEATHER (66%); HURRICANES (61%); TROPICAL STORMS (61%) Terrorism; Insurance; Law and Legislation; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; World Trade Center (NYC); United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BEARS (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) Treasury Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; New York State; California; Midwestern States (US); Southern States (US); Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



232 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 7-10-05: QUESTIONS FOR BRUCE S. GORDON; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Civil Rights C.E.O. 

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: When the membership of the N.A.A.C.P. gathers in Milwaukee this week for its annual convention, you are expected to be confirmed as its new president. How did that happen? 
 Russell Reynolds, an executive search firm, contacted me earlier this year. 
 Having spent 35 years on the corporate side, I know the major search firms, and they know me. 
 You're a former executive at Verizon. Would it be fair to describe you as the first president in the 96-year history of the N.A.A.C.P. with no experience in civil rights? 
 No. Not at all. I feel that my civil rights activities have been in the economic arena, where people get jobs.
 Are you saying that the battle to diversify corporate America has become the primary goal of the civil rights movement? 
 I think we have to define civil rights more broadly. When I say civil rights, I am talking about economic rights. I think I have the ability to meet with corporate C.E.O.'s and help them to think through the bottom-line benefits of diversity.
 I assume you will be expected to improve the ailing finances of the N.A.A.C.P.
 The last role I had at Verizon was president of the retail-markets group. I also managed corporate advertising and brand management. I spent a lot of my career at Verizon going out and acquiring customers. I think that some of the same marketing techniques I used there I can use at the N.A.A.C.P. 
 You mean calling people at the moment they sit down to dinner and driving them bonkers? 
 No, I do not mean that. When I look at the potential base of members for the N.A.A.C.P., I start out by looking at different customer segments. I am particularly interested in the youth segment. Julian Bond, Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. were in their 20's and 30's when they established themselves as forces. I think we need that same age group as members and leaders in the N.A.A.C.P. 
 I find it disheartening to hear you speak of King and Bond as onetime members of the ''youth segment.'' I doubt that your predecessors at the N.A.A.C.P., most of whom were ministers or activists, would be moved by such marketing jargon. 
 This perception that ministers and politicians are the ones who have led the N.A.A.C.P. is actually wrong. I think that leadership talent emerges in all kinds of disciplines, whether you are a doctor or a lawyer or a corporate executive or a minister.
 You make it sound as if you see no difference between the leaders of a company like Verizon and the leaders of a church. 
 Some companies are very philanthropic. They have active community relations programs, and they invest in their communities. To that extent, a church and a corporation are the same. 
 Can we expect to see President Bush at the N.A.A.C.P. convention this week? 
 No. We invited him, but his calendar is completely full, and he is not open to changing his calendar to attend. 
 Of course, he has already created a stir by being the first president since Warren G. Harding who has declined to appear before the N.A.A.C.P. while in office. 
 I'd like to find something that we as an organization care about that he, too, cares about so that he can take the Bush tenacity and direct it at that care-about.
 Care-about? Is that a noun? 
 Yes, and please attribute it to me when you use it in the future. 
 Will do. The outgoing president of the N.A.A.C.P., Kweisi Mfume, alienated the White House when he said that black conservatives who support President Bush are ''ventriloquist's dummies.'' 
 Mfume belongs to yesterday, and this is a new day. Let me simply say I have contacts at the White House. I will find my way there. I don't feel the need to engage in the gamesmanship of who calls whom first, and to be candid, I've already started the process. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Holger Keifel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); BRANDING (65%); COMMUNITY RELATIONS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%) Blacks

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (93%) National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) Bruce S Gordon; Deborah Solomon

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



233 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 8134 words

HEADLINE: The Enigma of Damascus

BYLINE: By James Bennet. 
James Bennet is a staff writer for the magazine. His most recent article was about Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president.

 BODY:
The opera house in Damascus was a long time coming. Hafez al-Assad, the iron-willed military man who ruled Syria for three decades, was in power just a few years when he laid the cornerstone. But lack of materials and equipment, hard economic times and a devastating fire delayed the project year after year. It fell to Assad's son and successor, Bashar, to finish the job. He opened Al Assad opera house with his wife, Asma, last year. Decorated with paintings and sculptures by Syrian artists, offering up classical concerts and works by Arab playwrights, the building expresses something of the elder Assad's vision of Damascus as the Arab capital of cultural, if not political, enlightenment. The name of his controlling party, Baath, means resurrection, and nothing could better reflect an Arab renaissance than achievement in the arts. 
 For a dance performance one evening last month, a mixed crowd streamed through the doors. Women with showy hairstyles mingled with others in head scarves; men came in suits or jeans. One teenage boy wore a T-shirt that admonished in English, ''Your game is still as ugly as your girl.'' As curtain time approached, Syria's power couple walked in. 
 President Assad wore a black suit and a charcoal shirt without a tie; Mrs. Assad, a sea-foam green sweater over a sheer top and a white skirt. Her long, honey-colored hair was uncovered. Together they made a kind of visual rhyme with the building: tall, slender and young, they seemed the essence of secular Western-Arab fusion, the elegant doctor-turned-president out on the town with his dazzling British-born Syrian wife, the former J. P. Morgan banker whom Syrians call their Princess Diana. 
 For the Bush administration, many European leaders and many reform-minded Syrians, this is a mirage. Some of them had hopes for this Assad when he came to power after his father's death five years ago. But since then, what they have seen as a pattern of empty promises, nasty oratory and bloody tactics has turned them against the Syrian regime. Since Saddam Hussein's rule ended in Iraq, no other Arab government has come in for as much pressure and disdain from the Bush administration. In December 2003, President Bush imposed economic sanctions on Syria. This February, the administration recalled its ambassador, who has not returned to Damascus. It acted after a powerful bomb in Beirut killed Rafik Hariri, the former Lebanese prime minister and a critic of the Syrian regime. International pressure soon forced Syria to end its military occupation of Lebanon, which began in 1976 during Lebanon's civil war. 
 By ideology, inclination and geography, Bashar al-Assad's regime looms as a rock in the road to fulfillment of the Bush administration's foreign policy, if not its philosophy. It is the one government in the Middle East that has not recognized that Bush is serious about comprehensive reform, a senior administration official told me, speaking on condition of anonymity. To the administration, Assad is a murderous proxy warrior, permitting or even encouraging jihadists to stream eastward into Iraq, and allowing Iranian weapons to stream westward to the guerrilla group Hezbollah in Lebanon. The Bush administration accuses him also of encouraging terrorism to the south, against Israel, by permitting militant Palestinian leaders to operate in Damascus. It sees him as a dictator interrupting a new expansion of democracy from the Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf. If, as Bush has said, ''in the long run, stability cannot be purchased at the expense of liberty,'' then Syria's relative stability, after 35 years, may be due to run out. 
For Assad, however, it is the Bush administration that is sowing chaos in the region and reaping new extremists who menace Syria as well as its neighbors. Assad contends that he is opening his economy and preparing for a day he can be peacefully voted out. Although he is viewed in Washington as possibly a mere figurehead, he says he is just at the point of consolidating control by removing the so-called old guard of his father's government and installing change-minded technocrats. While his Syrian critics see him as trapped in the system created by his father, or complicit in it, or simply uncertain what to do, Assad insists he has a plan but is implementing it at a rate that Syria can manage, given its turbulent past and social divides. In any event, he is acting like a man with plenty of time. His unhurried pace may be a sign of a self-assurance that his critics insist he lacks, or else of a dangerous complacency, or possibly of both. 
 When he paused on his way through the opera house to say hello, I asked if he was concerned about a report that American troops were again operating in western Iraq, near the Syrian border. The report had renewed rumors in Damascus of an imminent American invasion. Assad shrugged. ''The United States is a very powerful country,'' he said -- one that could strike as easily from the Mediterranean as from Iraq. ''It's not a matter of where they are,'' he said. ''It's a matter of how they behave.'' 
 Well, was he worried that they may indeed strike from somewhere? ''No,'' he said, as a wry smile formed on his lips. ''I think the experience in Iraq has not'' -- he hesitated for a beat -- ''worked out.'' His wife flashed a warm smile and deftly flicked me away. ''We're off duty,'' she said in her plummy English.
 The show proved not to be the ballet I anticipated but a kind of Orientalist pageant, with jingling Bedouin headdresses, flashing scimitars and barefoot women. It was a story of good versus evil, the good led by an elderly sheik and his strapping son in a black-and-gold robe, the evil led by a sinewy man with a shaved head and a snake tattooed over his left shoulder blade. He wore a sort of leather singlet studded with chrome buttons, and he brandished the biggest sword onstage. 
 Like Big Macs or a fully convertible currency, news of the end of history and the triumph of liberal capitalism has not reached Syria. Although Assad has begun to update it, the ideology of the Arab Socialist Baath Party -- less a vehicle for political participation than a far-reaching instrument of state control -- pulls at the economy, politics and society. The dance evoked the romantic pan-Arab dream that still burns in Syria, and in the Baath Party, long after it has faded through most of the Arab world. This once-revolutionary dream of a border-erasing, secular-leaning Arab union, promoted by the Assads and historically centered on Damascus, is now being squeezed between two more dynamic movements: its longtime, bloody Islamist rival, the vision of a renewed, border-defying caliphate; and the countering demand by Bush and Arab democrats for a Middle East of defined borders and democratic governments. 
 During the performance, the bad guys at first had the good guys on the ropes, stealing their women and abusing them. But then the Arab tribes united and stood up to the villains. Clearly enchanted, the man in the seat next to me leaned over and whispered, ''This is our history.'' 
 ''Syrian history?'' I asked.
 ''Arabic history,'' he replied.
 The audience burst into applause and whoops when a chorus figure lip-synched a warning: ''Do not make peace with them, for they are truly evil!'' In the ensuing battle, Snake Tattoo killed the sheik's son by stabbing him in the back. Then came despair and a funeral, followed by the happy arrival of a handsome stranger from another tribe to marry the sheik's daughter. The performance ended with the wedding, a tableau of celebration and Arab unity despite the evil that remained unvanquished. Nobody mentioned Israel.
 The Assads' applause never ventured beyond the perfunctory. After the bows, the actor who portrayed the sheik began the inevitable chant -- ''In our blood, in our souls, we sacrifice for you, Bashar'' -- but Assad did not pause in his exit from the theater, and the chant quickly died. Once outside the hall, the couple stopped to shake hands and chat. Scores of audience members clustered by the president's Audi sedan. Some held high their cellular telephones -- legalized by Assad only three years ago -- to snap digital photographs. ''God protect you!'' one woman called. Then Asma al-Assad climbed into the passenger's seat, Bashar al-Assad slipped behind the wheel, and they drove off alone into the jostling traffic and the balmy Damascus night. 
 The next day, when I asked Asma al-Assad what she thought of the dance, she winced. ''I think there was a lot of talent,'' she said carefully. But, she added, ''I don't think it portrayed what Syria is, in any era.'' 
 Yet what Syria is -- what it means to be Syrian -- is at the center of the debate over the country's future. To the extent that Syria has had a national identity, it has been based on the dismissal of a local Syrian identity in favor of its grander claim, to be ''the beating heart of Arabism.'' Along with the presidency, Arab socialism, the occupation of Lebanon, a network of corruption and the security state, Hafez al-Assad bequeathed that perplexing legacy, and the question of what, if anything, to do about it, to his son, who had expected to be an eye doctor.
I spoke with the Assads on successive days in the same setting, their private office in a small, sand-colored villa on the western hills overlooking Damascus. On the first occasion, Assad was waiting alone in the doorway. He ducked his head slightly as we shook hands. Perched atop that attenuated body, his head and features seem small; his deep- and close-set eyes make his default expression one of worry. That morning, his mustache, the essential accessory of the Baathist male, was shaved to a bar of stubble above his lip. He led me to the office, where he sat on a black leather sofa. An interpreter sat across from him, but Assad, who spoke in English with a slight lisp, would turn to him for a word only a handful of times over the next two hours. Hafez al-Assad was notorious for lecturing visitors for hours on end, testing their patience and their bladders. His son waited politely for my first question. 
 I began by noting that there was a debate in Washington over whether he was in control of his government. I asked his view. He laughed. ''That was before our conference,'' he said, referring to the Baath Party congress that had just ended. Several senior figures had stepped down; Assad had now replaced all but 6 of the 21 members of the Syrian Baath Party's top panel, its Regional Command, and in replacing them, he had whittled their total number to 15.
 Assad said he had been following the Washington debate. ''There are maybe two different articles,'' he said. '' 'He is not in control' -- but in the other article, 'He is a dictator.' So there is a contradiction.'' Neither description fit, he said. ''By law and by constitution, the president of Syria has a lot of authority. But if you take a decision by yourself -- it doesn't matter if it's a big decision, an important decision or a normal decision -- you do a lot of mistakes. You must consult everybody. This is my way. Second, they say, 'He's reluctant, not in control,' because I take my time. I'm not hasty.'' He pointed to another change made at the Baath congress, the substitution among the party's goals of a social-market economy for socialism. That change was 18 months in the works, he said. I knew that, in the past, Assad had asked for patience from Americans by indicating that the old guard -- remnants of his father's regime -- were thwarting him. But now he brought up the members of the old guard only to dismiss their influence. ''Now they're gone,'' he said. ''We made that change.''
 Under Bashar al-Assad, Syria is more isolated in the world than it has ever been. Hafez al-Assad made his share of mistakes; he did not fully emerge as the ''lion of Damascus'' until years after taking control. Yet the father had the Soviet Union and cold-war gamesmanship to fall back on. He also had on-again-off-again peace talks with Israel, which gave him a framework for talking with the United States. Bashar al-Assad has had neither of these tools. He came into power after talks collapsed in 2000 over the return to Syria of the Golan Heights, which Israel occupied in 1967, in the Six-Day War. Soon a new Palestinian intifada was raging. And then came Sept. 11, 2001. In the eyes of the Bush administration, Assad set about digging himself a deeper hole. His father supported the Persian Gulf war, but Bashar al-Assad opposed the war with Iraq in 2003. He pushed the Lebanese to change their constitution to extend the term of President Emile Lahoud, an Assad loyalist. Then, on Feb. 14, 2005, Rafik Hariri and 19 other people died in the Beirut bombing. 
 Assad denies having anything to do with the Hariri assassination. He told me that allies of Syria had also been killed in Lebanon, and no one had figured out who was responsible. ''There are always assassinations in Lebanon,'' he said. ''Hariri was an international businessman. We don't know anything about his relations.'' I asked if he agreed with a recent op-ed column in the Arabic press by one of his ministers, Buthaina Shaaban, suggesting that American or Israeli intelligence was responsible. ''Even if I want to blame any other international or regional party, I can't say it as president,'' he said. ''That's why we supported the international investigation.''
 Responding to claims made in Washington, Assad said Syria had complied completely with a United Nations Security Council resolution calling on it to withdraw its soldiers and intelligence agents. When I asked if he would help the United Nations fulfill another component of that resolution -- the disarming of Hezbollah -- he shrugged. ''They asked Syria not to interfere in Lebanon, so it is not our issue.'' What did he think the Bush administration wanted from him? ''I don't know,'' he said. ''This is the problem.'' He said that all he heard from the Americans was about sealing the Iraqi border, which runs more than 300 miles through the desert. ''They say, 'You do not do enough,' but we ask what is the meaning of 'enough'?'' American officials have acknowledged that the Syrian government provided valuable intelligence in the aftermath of Sept. 11. But they said Assad repeatedly dragged his heels when it came to combating the insurgency in Iraq. They said that in January, when Richard L. Armitage, then the deputy secretary of state, gave him a list of former Iraqi officials hiding in Syria, Assad did nothing. The Syrian version is quite different. A senior Syrian official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told me that after the Armitage visit, Syria arrested and turned over a suspected insurgent leader, Saddam Hussein's half-brother Sabawi Ibrahim al-Hassan al-Tikriti, and more than 20 others. But he said that the Syrians, while seeking nothing in return, asked to keep their cooperation quiet for fear of alienating Arab opinion and angering extremists. The arrest by Syria made headlines worldwide, and the disclosure was seen in Damascus as double-dealing. Syria immediately denied any involvement. 
 The senior Bush administration official, by contrast, characterized the Syrian arrest of Hassan as one more attempt by Assad to play his father's hedging game, trading a chit sought by the Americans for the freedom to work against Bush policies elsewhere. Assad simply did not realize that the Bush administration would not play this game, the official said. 
 Assad told me he had arrested more than 1,500 extremists who tried to cross the border, to or from Iraq. He said his repeated offers of border cooperation with the Bush administration had gone ignored. ''First of all, who to cooperate with?'' he asked. ''If you go to the border, there are only Syrian guards on our side. But if you look at the Iraqi side, there is nobody. No Iraqi guards, no American guards. Nobody.''
 I asked if he considered the violence in Iraq to be legitimate resistance. He sidestepped, saying he had put the same question to Iraqis. ''Of course, about suicide bombers and killing tens every day, nobody considers it legitimate resistance anywhere in this region,'' he said. ''But at the same time, they talk about Iraqis attacking allied forces -- they consider it resistance.'' Despite their shared ideology of Arab unity, the Baathists of Iraq and Syria were always trying to kill each other off, plotting coups and countercoups. Hafez al-Assad supported Iran in its war with Iraq, a decision that Bashar al-Assad listed for me as an instance of his father's farsightedness. Assad told me he did not regret his own opposition to the latest war with Iraq. He said he was against war on principle, and that he knew that Syria would ''pay the price of any side effects of this war in Iraq.'' He said Syria was now paying that price. Days before our interview, the Syrian government announced that it had arrested one man and killed two others who had been planning an attack in Damascus on behalf of an organization called Soldiers of Al Sham, a reference to a ''greater Syria'' that would include Jordan, Lebanon and Palestine. Assad now provided new details. He said that the group intended to send a 3-year-old girl laden with explosives into the crowded Ministry of Justice. He also said that the Syrians had foiled a planned attack last year on the American Embassy by a man ''with a bomb and machine gun.'' Assad said the Americans did not understand what he called their common enemy, the forces of religious extremism and intolerance he said Syria had been fighting since the 1950's. ''This state of mind is dangerous for everybody, for East and West, for everybody,'' he said, and as he talked he laid out what amounted to a three-step formula for his governance. He said that his top priority was stability. To achieve that, to dispel rising extremism, he needed to achieve a new prosperity. To achieve prosperity, he needed democracy. The adjectives he used throughout our conversation were ''open-minded'' and ''closed-minded.'' Emphasizing the former, he said, was his key to prosperity. ''When you talk about upgrading society, you talk about open-minded,'' he said. ''When you talk about open-minded, you mean freedom. Freedom of thinking.'' 
 Bashar al-Assad was a spare, not the heir. His elder brother, Basil, was groomed to lead. Growing up under their own Baathist father, the Assad brothers of Syria were never like the wilding Hussein boys of Iraq. Neither had a reputation for personal corruption or cruelty. Yet they were very different from each other. Old friends and teachers of the Assad children remember Basil as charismatic and commanding, Bashar as self-effacing. Bashar had fewer, though long-lasting, friends. Basil was a champion equestrian and followed his father's path into the military. Bashar chose medicine, the profession his austere father had dreamed of pursuing as a boy. When Basil died in a car accident in 1994, Hafez al-Assad summoned his second son home from his studies in London, dispatched him to the army and began promoting him through the ranks. As president, Assad has chosen to decorate his office with paintings and sculptures of horses drawn from his brother's collection. Bearded, eyes blanked by aviator sunglasses, Basil's face still haunts many walls in Damascus. 
 When asked about himself, Assad tends to drift into using the second person -- a kind of grammatical step away from oneself, the opposite of the embracing royal we. When I asked if he sometimes wished he was pursuing his chosen profession, ophthalmology, he replied that he was accustomed to Syrians turning to him, as his father's son, for help. ''You're maybe just an ordinary person, but they don't consider you as ordinary,'' he said. ''They want you to help them. So this is since you are young. So you get attached to the problems of the general people.'' Assad seems to draw a line between himself as a person and his attempt to perform his father's self-designated job of Arab spokesman. In May 2001, while greeting Pope John Paul II in Damascus, Assad suggested that Christians and Muslims make common cause against those ''who try to kill the principles of all religions with the same mentality with which they betrayed Jesus Christ.'' Yet in the crowd at the funeral of that pope this year, Assad reached out to shake the hand of Israel's president, Moshe Katsav. Even when they were negotiating with Israelis during the Clinton presidency, Syrian officials resisted any public handshakes. ''God made him,'' Assad said of Katsav when I asked him about the handshake. ''Anybody God made should be recognized.
 ''As Syrians,'' he added, ''we have never been closed-minded.'' 
 Assad told me he had moved to open general debate in Syria, permitting new criticism of the regime. When I asked if he really believed that people felt free to speak their minds now, he said: ''No, we don't say that we achieved democracy. We don't allege that. It's a long way. But we are going this way. The situation today, the question that we should ask, Is the situation today like the situation, say, 10 years ago? It's definitely not the same. So it's a road. You should walk the road.'' He added, ''They want us to jump.'' But, he said, ''if you jump, you will fall on your head.'' I said that some Syrian reformers, after watching him for five years, concluded he was not serious about political change. He said that his priority had to be economics, and he grew impatient: ''What should I feed them? Statements? Or paper? They want to eat food.'' He had to act against corruption immediately, he said. ''If we don't have a new party today, we can have it two years later, nobody will die. But if you don't have the food today, they will die tomorrow.'' 
The next day, when I sat in the same seat across from Asma al-Assad, she seized the initiative. What had I expected from my visit to Syria? What had I found? My first, vague response was met with polite impatience. ''Away from the cosmetic,'' she emphasized. ''I mean underneath.'' She went on to surprise me -- and to flatter my line of work -- by describing the difficulty of promoting development in a nation without a free press or, as she put it, ''in a country like Syria, where the media hasn't reached its full potential.'' 
 She went on to say, ''The employee will give you his perspective as a government employee -- he wants modernization, but he doesn't want the government to be able to fire him.'' The businessman, she added, ''wants development, but he wants the market to remain closed, because he's benefiting.'' So ''everybody's looking at development from within his own aspect, rather than seeing a country's development.'' The media ''gives it a national perspective, rather than a community perspective.''
 So could Syrians expect to see a free press soon? ''Absolutely.'' How soon? She hesitated, then smiled to acknowledge the impending evasion. ''Let me start by telling you a bit about myself.''
 The daughter of a Syrian cardiologist, Asma al-Akhras grew up in London and graduated from the University of London. She did stints as a banker in New York, first with Deutsche Bank and then with J.P. Morgan, where she worked in mergers and acquisitions. She loved New York, and while she lived in a corporate apartment uptown, she wants it to be understood that she preferred to hang out downtown. She also worked in Paris, and she speaks French and Spanish. She has relatives in Houston. She had been accepted to Harvard's M.B.A. program when she chose to return to Syria and marry Assad, less than a year after he succeeded his father. The couple have two boys and a girl; the eldest, Hafez, is 3 1/2. The Assads had just begun speaking English with Hafez, having focused on his Arabic first. They have no professional day care and rely instead on the extended family. Asma al-Assad is 29 years old, 10 years younger than her husband.
 But all that came later in the conversation. It turned out that in saying she wanted to talk about herself, she had a particular aspect in mind, one that seemed meant as a caution to an outsider asking about change, and maybe to an American administration hoping to reshape the Middle East. ''I came to live in Syria for the first time five years ago,'' she said, ''and I haven't even touched the surface. The fact that I speak the same language means nothing. The fact that I understand the culture means nothing. Because I didn't know what the mechanics of the society were.''
 She was accustomed to working in a large bank with a clear objective, where ''the system doesn't allow you to go away from that objective or go out of that focus.'' Syria lacked institutions, she said, and even basic habits like ''absence of leave'' forms: ''Here, in Syria, if somebody wants to take a day off -- 'Where is he? Don't know, hold on, let me find out. Where is his contact number? Oh, let's ask admin.' And they've got a number that's 20 years old.'' Every ministry, she said a few minutes later, was ''a one-man show.'' The dearth of competent administrators was a refrain for both Assads. 
 Asma al-Assad has given almost no interviews; yet it was hard to imagine the wife of any other head of state in the region speaking with such easy assertiveness. Like an American first lady, she has focused on family issues, particularly economic empowerment and education. She said she gathered complaints and ideas and studied those around her to see, for example, if Syrians were following a new seat-belt law (they were not, she said). She presented herself as a full partner to her husband. When I asked if she passed this information on to him, she said: ''Of course. We exchange it, not only pass it on.''
 She said that she initially approached Syria's problems as a businesswoman but added, with a laugh to drain the pomposity, that Assad ''gave me back my humanity.'' Cutting state jobs, however necessary it was, meant hurting families. ''We've got to make sure there's opportunity someplace else,'' she said. ''It's about finding the right balance between creating opportunity and managing risk. And that's for me what Syria is about today, and that's the transition process we're going through.'' 
 As the sentences paraded smartly by, I thought of Syrians I had met who spent years in prison for opposing Hafez al-Assad, of the stories of torture I had heard. I thought of accusations of murderous policies pursued under Bashar al-Assad, of corruption among his relatives. It made for a jarring juxtaposition with this earnest talk of bureaucratic reform. You grew up in a capitalist democracy, I said at last. Didn't Syria seem kind of crazy to you when you moved here? 
 ''Um,'' she said, momentarily searching. When she began again, she spoke more slowly. ''It's a process. And I know. I've seen the end of the process, if you like, and we are moving toward that objective.'' 
 What did she say to Syrians who considered this a repressive government that jailed political opponents? ''How many political prisoners and how many have been released?'' she shot back. Assad has released hundreds of people imprisoned by his father, though he has also jailed some of his own. ''How many prisoners do you have in the U.S., political or otherwise? It doesn't mean you're a repressive society either. But just by focusing on one, you skew the picture.''
 I noted that in Washington her husband was called a dictator who did terrible things. What was it Americans did not understand about him? Leaning forward on the sofa with her hands clasped in front of her, she sat silently for 13 seconds. ''I don't know which angle to take it from,'' she said at last. Another pause. ''I think people need to see the man behind the presidency,'' she said at last. ''They need to see what values he has. What his work ethics are. What his personal characteristics are. And then they can understand more about who he is and what he's trying to do.'' As I left the villa, I thought her initial inquiry was still the most important. What was, in fact, cosmetic, and what might be underneath?
Time has not forgotten Damascus, but it seems to have remembered it only on special occasions -- the invention of the tail fin, for example, or of the Soviet-style apartment block or, more recently, the rediscovery of the latte. But as Assad's stop-and-go changes open cracks in the socialist economy, money and modernity are trickling in. A few Internet cafes have opened their doors. People can now use credit cards. ''Kingdom of Heaven'' was playing downtown. One afternoon, a man in a Spider-Man suit was hawking Tweety Bird balloons outside the Scuzzi Cafe. ''Hi,'' he said, when he caught me staring.
 Culturally, the atmosphere is far more open than it is in much of the Arab world. Lovers hold hands and cuddle in the parks. Over a sushi lunch one day, I watched the Syrian couple at the next table suck down six Scotches between them. It is a dissonant environment, of a policed liberalism confined to religious and cultural life and banned from politics. White-gloved policemen are everywhere directing the clogged traffic. They are obeyed. Syria's state of emergency, dating to 1963, gives them the power to arrest anyone with no stated cause. Some reformers hoped Assad would cancel the emergency law, but he told me he planned to change it ''to have more security, less abuse of the people.'' He cited as a model the Patriot Act. 
 The poverty is stark. Unemployment is said to stand at 20 percent. Maybe even more dangerous to the regime than American pressure is that the oil is running out. Nabil Sukkar, an economist and business consultant in Damascus, told me that Syria may become a net importer of oil by 2008. Sukkar said that he used to believe the regime could separate political and economic reform, but that it had now run out of time and had to do both over the next two or three years. ''You can't have the party monopolizing decision making,'' he said. Sukkar said that gulf investors were eager to build in Syria, but the Baathist ideology was scaring them off. 
 In his documentary ''A Flood in Baath Country,'' the Syrian filmmaker Omar Amiralay gives a chilling look at a society stunted by Baathism. As his camera stares, children in uniform in the barren classroom of a rural village mouth their slogans: ''We the Vanguards of Light salute our leader, Bashar.'' Together, the children chant: ''We are the voice of the proletariat. In sacrifice, we eat little.'' The film is banned in Syria. Like everyone else there, I watched it on DVD. 
 I met Amiralay at a Damascus coffeehouse with walls banded in black and white marble. As a fountain splashed nearby, backgammon pieces clicked and Madonna warbled, he told me his story of long-term cultural resistance. He came to politics after the Arab defeat in 1967, and to filmmaking and Marxism on the barricades in Paris in 1968. His first film was a celebration of a giant dam that Hafez al-Assad built across the Euphrates. ''As a Marxist, I found it something to honor,'' he said wryly, in French-accented English. For the new film, he visited villagers relocated to make room for Lake Assad. 
 Amiralay said that one of the Arab satellite networks had bought ''A Flood in Baath Country'' Since Bashar al-Assad had permitted satellite television, this meant the movie would be shown in Syria after all. Amiralay said he had asked the network to include a dedication to a friend, Samir Kassir, a Lebanese journalist and critic of the Syrian regime who was killed on June 2 by a bomb hidden in his car. The dedication seemed tantamount to accusing the regime of the murder, and I asked Amiralay how he could be sure he was not going too far. He touched his right index finger to his nose. ''It's an animal sense,'' he said. But he also said that times had changed: ''There was a demystification after the death of Hafez al-Assad of the fear, because he personified this power, this charisma and this capacity of violence. There was a psychological release, because the people felt the state was not controlled as before, and because the state is confused.'' 
 The journalistic shorthand for Syrian critics of the regime is the ''opposition.'' It is the wrong word. It suggests coherence, organization and political leverage that do not exist. It suggests the existence of leaders with followers. A better word might be ''dissidents,'' with its connotations of moral authority and solitude. They are a mix of Baathist reformers, communists, Islamists and even one or two Syrian-style neoconservatives. In Arabic and English, they have seized the tools of communication that Assad has permitted: the Internet and satellite television. Assad told me he had hoped to foster a productive conversation about reform and that he kept track ''from time to time'' of the Internet chatter. ''Some people, they just talk because they want to talk,'' he said. ''Some people, they just hate. And some people, they want to criticize because they need a better country. That's what you want.''
 Ayman Abdel Nour, 40, puts himself in the last category. A Baathist, he issues an e-mail bulletin bird-dogging corruption and promoting change within the movement. He attacks senior Baath figures by name. He sees himself as strengthening Assad's hand. When I visited him at his apartment, he was enthusiastic about the sacking of Baath leaders during the party congress. Now, he said, ''we expect that the decisions will be more radical, and faster.'' He said that Assad was now in ''100 percent full control,'' which meant he also had complete responsibility for delivering and no more excuses. Abdel Nour told me there would certainly be multiparty elections by 2007, when Assad is to run for a second term. (Assad did not commit to this when I asked him about it. He said he would need a year or two to build consensus for a new multiparty law. ''We should give it time,'' he said.) There may be limits even to Abdel Nour's faith. When I asked if he believed that Assad had a clear idea of what he wanted to do, the brazen reformer gave his response in baby talk, and addressed it to the infant son he was cradling in his arms. ''This is a question,'' he told the baby. ''I don't know.'' 
 Some Syrian intellectuals have a darker view. ''I think the Arab regimes will live a very long life, and a prosperous life,'' said Mohamad Shahrour, an engineer who writes about Islam. ''Because freedom as a value does not exist in our consciousness.'' He blamed this on ''Islamic culture.'' In Syria and some other Arab nations, he said, regimes should fear only religious uprisings. ''The government could arrest 5,000 people now in one day, and it will not be afraid of an uprising. But if in any city they will take the veil, the hijab, from 1,000 women, they will be afraid of an uprising.''
 Given focus by the chaos in Iraq, that is a vision of the end days of this regime that many Syrians fear. A green-domed mosque in the hills above Damascus marks the spot where Cain is said to have slain Abel. The city took its name from the stream of blood that ran down. There are those who think that a time of violent reckoning with sectarian hatreds may be necessary. Ammar Abdulhamid, 39, runs the Tharwa Project, which tracks treatment of minorities in the region. He had a fellowship at the Brookings Institution in Washington last fall, and he has decorated his Damascus office with photographs from his walk to work along Connecticut Avenue. One shows the American flag through the bare limbs of trees. When I stopped by, he called the regime ''defunct'' and the Baathists ''idiots'' and ''morons'' while we were still settling into our seats. He saw no alternative in civil society either. ''They all want a leader or a messiah,'' he said. He did not advocate ''bloody revolution,'' he said. But he also said that the civil strife accompanying regime change in Iraq might be the only way forward in the region. ''Stagnation is killing our souls and our minds,'' he said. ''Hopefully, this baptism by blood and mayhem will teach us to cherish the liberties.''
A few days before I spoke with Assad, I received an e-mail message from Joshua Landis, an assistant professor of Middle Eastern studies from the University of Oklahoma who is living for the year in Damascus. Landis writes an indispensable blog about Syria, Syriacomment.com. He is married to a Syrian woman who is a member of the same esoteric Islamic sect as the Assads, the Alawites, who believe in the divinity of Ali, Muhammad's cousin and son-in-law. Alawites were oppressed as infidels for centuries by other Muslims.
 Landis's e-mail message recapitulated a remarkable petition he came across while researching his dissertation, which is to be published next year as a book, ''Democracy in Syria.'' In 1936, as the French were debating how to carve up their League of Nations mandate in the region, a group of Alawite notables urged that their northern mountainous redoubt not be annexed to Syria, which would surely be dominated by Muslims. ''The spirit of hatred and fanaticism imbedded in the hearts of the Arab Muslims against everything that is non-Muslim has been perpetually nurtured by the Islamic religion,'' the petition read. ''Therefore, the abolition of the mandate will expose the minorities in Syria to the dangers of death and annihilation, irrespective of the fact that such abolition will annihilate the freedom of thought and belief.'' According to Landis, one of the six signers was Suleiman al-Assad, Bashar's grandfather. 
 Before I had the chance to bring up the petition, Assad volunteered that his grandfather had petitioned the French with other Alawite leaders to ''go back to our mother country, which is Syria.'' He said: ''They knew that if we divide the country we would have wars. So it's better to be, to mingle, with the others.'' I had the spooky feeling that someone else was reading my e-mail. 
 I said that I had heard the petition proposed separation. ''No, no, no, no, no,'' Assad replied. ''It's the opposite.'' Setting aside that question, the petition in favor of separation helps explain the profound appeal of Baathism, with its message of an embracing Arab unity, to a man like Hafez al-Assad, a member of a brutalized minority. Baathism could be the way to bring together all religions and races -- or else the means for minority domination. It could also be the bandage beneath which sectarian wounds healed or festered. As to which effect it has had in Syria, no one can know unless the bandage is pulled off, as it has been in Iraq. 
 The Syrian Baathists have dealt with sectarian differences through official denial. The education system teaches one vanilla brand of Islam. Yet sectarianism is never far from the surface. Within Syria, some who blame the regime for the killing of Hariri see it as a sectarian play that cost Assad international support but strengthened him internally. Hariri, a Sunni, had money, influence and contacts with Syria's Sunnis to potentially foster an alternate power structure. (Others dismiss this theory as crediting Assad with a cunning he has not otherwise displayed.) Unlike Lebanon, Syria has a clear majority -- Sunnis -- and some view them as the potential foundation of a stable democracy. Farid Ghadry, who has set himself up in Washington as a regime opponent and has been invited in for discussions by the State Department, presents a candidly sectarian vision of Syria's future. He speaks of a state with minority rights but also argues, ''We need to give Muslim Sunnis a country -- a legitimate country -- from which to launch the war on ideology,'' meaning extremism. Yet the new mosques that have sprung up across Syria in recent years -- another kind of patient resistance -- may well be preparing believers for a different war. They just happen to be fighting it now in Iraq. 
 Hafez al-Assad maneuvered endlessly to co-opt Syria's Sunnis. He reserved top posts in his government for Sunnis. Land reform helped ally him with rural Sunnis against the urban Sunni elite. Through intricate sectarian balancing, he created what Landis calls a supertribe. ''You're substituting party ideology for blood,'' Landis told me over coffee, ''but it's very similar.'' When this method broke down -- when the Muslim Brothers, Sunni extremists, rose against him in the 1970's -- Hafez al-Assad used his Alawite-dominated security forces to crush them. In 1982, he leveled the old town of Hama, the city where their resistance was based.
 Anwar al-Bounni, a 46-year-old lawyer in Damascus, was living in Hama in 1981, when Syrian forces first moved in. Bounni is a Christian, but he was bearded, and soldiers grabbed him as a suspected Muslim Brother. As the soldiers began beating him, Bounni said, neighbors ran up to identify him. Pinning Bounni's hands behind his back, the soldiers set his beard on fire, then let him go. Bounni now does the Sisyphean work of representing political prisoners. To finance his work, he was preparing to sell his office; he had already sold his car. As we talked among his packed boxes, a beaming young man with a bouquet of flowers entered. He was Abdel Nasser Kahlous, a 33-year-old accountant for General Motors in Syria. He had just been released after a week in prison. He and eight other members of a dialogue group called the Atassi Forum were arrested after one of them read a statement by the Muslim Brothers, e-mailed by their leadership in exile, during a meeting. It is a capital offense in Syria to belong to the Muslim Brothers. ''We thought it was open and modern,'' Kahlous said of the statement. He said that, once arrested, he expected to get at least three years in prison. But he took heart when, at the initial detention center, he glimpsed Bounni on satellite TV speaking about the case.
 When I raised the Atassi Forum arrests with Assad, I thought he might call them a mistake. He did not yield an inch. ''When you know in the United States that somebody has a relationship with Al Qaeda, what do you do?'' he asked. ''You arrest him.'' The Muslim Brothers, he said, ''are terrorists. They killed more than 15,000 in Syria.'' (That is the official number. It is believed to be lower than the number killed in the regime's crackdown.) He said that Atassi group members were released after they said ''they wouldn't do it again.'' As of this writing, the member of the Atassi Forum who actually read the e-mail message aloud, Ali al-Abdullah, is still in jail. 
 The subject of sectarianism creates a bind for the regime. On the one hand, it would like to argue that it has succeeded in easing sectarian tensions; on the other hand, it would like to argue that these tensions are a terrible threat. In the interview, Assad did both. When I cited the historic oppression of the Alawites and asked if he believed that such wounds ever healed, he responded with a rather airless tautology. ''The proof is that I am in power,'' he said. He did not mention it, but in another way he clearly is evidence of assimilation: his wife is a Sunni. Yet Assad also argued that sectarian tensions in the Middle East recognized no borders. ''There is a domino effect, not only in Syria but in the region in general,'' he said. ''This domino effect will start from the Mediterranean -- Syria and Lebanon -- and go south to the gulf region and the Red Sea and east to Middle Asia and north to the southern borders of Russia. All these societies are linked with one another. So the answer is yes, very clearly yes. We always worry about the effect of this conflict.'' 
You could blame bad intelligence for it all. In 1915, a member of a Damascus secret society opposed to the rule of the dying Ottoman Empire made his way to British intelligence headquarters in Cairo. As recounted in David Fromkin's history, ''A Peace to End All Peace,'' claims by this young man persuaded the British officers that Arabs would rise in revolt against the Turks in exchange for commitments about the postwar Middle East. Not much of a revolt materialized, but the commitments and the borders that they led the Western powers to demarcate helped create the crisis of legitimacy that Middle Eastern regimes are still facing. Nowhere is this crisis greater than in Syria, where those postwar borders have always been scorned as imperialist artifacts. Syria has such a weak commitment to its own national identity that it once willingly surrendered its sovereignty, giving itself away in 1958 to Gamal Abdel Nasser's short-lived United Arab Republic. ''What constitutes a nation?'' asked Georges Jabbour, a Baathist parliamentarian. ''Is it modern Syria, now? Or is it Greater Syria? Or is it the Arab nation, as the Baath Party says? Or is it the Islamic nation, as the Muslim Brotherhood says?''
 Throughout the region, the struggle to clarify and legitimize borders is reaching a new pitch. The Israelis and Palestinians are edging toward another division of historic Palestine. In Iraq, the Bush administration is trying to create a government with the legitimacy to resist sectarian fragmentation and preserve the postcolonial boundaries. In Lebanon this spring, there were hints of a national patriotism that transcended ethnic and religious divisions. And in Syria, by default, design or desperation, Assad is taking steps as well. He has withdrawn his soldiers from Lebanon and moved to clarify Syria's borders with Jordan and Turkey. He has erected a berm that for the first time defines the border with Iraq. 
 Assad defended the pan-Arabism that his father relied on, though he described it today as more a feeling of connectedness than a desire for shared government. ''The practice is more, now, open-minded,'' he said. Some who watch him most closely say they have detected a significant change. ''There is a sort of transformation within the party,'' argues Jabbour, a onetime aide to Hafez al-Assad. Referring to a speech by Bashar al-Assad before the party congress, he told me: ''President Assad did not talk about Arab unity. He talked about Arabism in general, the Arab identity.'' Ayman Abdel Nour, the Baath reformer, made a similar argument. '' 'Unity' doesn't mean that you have to conquer all the Arab countries and absorb them and occupy them,'' he said. ''No. It means to raise the standards of cooperation, of economic cooperation.'' Amiralay, the filmmaker and opponent of Baathism, says he also sees a change. ''I think this is absolutely the end of this sorrowful page in the Syrian history,'' he told me. ''I think that with the new era in which we are entering today, there is a redefining of the borders. They will be definite for the first time.'' He added, ''It will be a mercy killing of Arab nationalism.'' 
 Yet if Assad sees this, he has yet to spell it out. ''It's a crab-walk,'' Landis says. ''They're backing toward this. It's not an articulated, conscious thing.'' It looks, much like his moves on reform or on Lebanon, more improvised than strategic. A defined Syrian nationalism could be a bulwark against sectarian chaos, a source of legitimacy and regional stability. It could also help bring home the skilled expatriates whom Assad is trying to woo, the ambitious Syrians who fled the smothering state to seek fulfillment abroad. But to achieve it, Syrians would need something to be proud of besides a threadbare pan-Arabism and their periodically glorious history. 
 The crab-walk is certainly not impressing the Bush administration. Bashar al-Assad is in a box. If he makes what the administration would consider concessions, he would confirm its view that only pressure can move him. ''If you give, you convince them that pressure works,'' argues Robert Malley of the International Crisis Group, which is closely monitoring Syria. ''If you don't give, you convince them they need to put more pressure on.'' Flynt Leverett, a former C.I.A. analyst and Bush official and the author of a new book on Assad, ''Inheriting Syria,'' told me that this approach was carrying the Bush administration along a fixed path. ''I think this administration is basically moving in the direction of a regime-change policy in Syria,'' he said. Yet while some administration officials see the regime as ultimately doomed -- unable to reform because to do so would be to surrender the privileges of the ruling clique -- they also see no alternative now for governing Syria. Outside of the Baath Party and the security apparatus, Syria, like Iraq before the war, has no institutions for sustaining national coherence and channeling political expression. If he wants to build a modern Syria, Assad must -- like the American president he confronts -- develop a strategy that breaks radically with his father's. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bashar al-Assad and his wife, Asma, at their private office overlooking Damascus.
Damascus, at once politically isolated and culturally connected (via satellite television).
 Omar Amiralay, a Syrian director. His latest film criticizes the regime. (Photographs by Taryn Simon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); SCULPTURE (77%); PAINTING (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (74%); CIVIL WAR (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); DANCE (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); WRITERS (55%) Politics and Government; International Relations; United States International Relations

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%) James Bennet; George W (Pres) Bush; Bashar Al- (Pres) Assad; Hafez Al- (1930-2000) Assad; Asma Assad

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (96%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) SYRIA (99%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%) Syria; Iraq; Lebanon; Syria

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005



234 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ALL CONSUMING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Why Do So Many Consumers Choose Frills When Plain-Old Will Do? Pure Laziness

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
WHEN you cross over the Walt Whitman Bridge from New Jersey into Philadelphia, you are not likely to notice a big change in local driving habits. They do not become more aggressive on that side of the Delaware River, nor do they have trouble keeping their cars in a single lane. Pennsylvanians seem no more or less accident-prone than their neighbors.
 Yet if you compare insurance-buying habits in the two states, Pennsylvania starts to look like one big demolition derby. More than half of the state's drivers buy something called a full-tort policy. It can cost hundreds of extra dollars a year, but it gives its holders the right to recover money not only for damages to the car, but also for pain, suffering and just about anything else. 
 In New Jersey, only one of every 12 drivers signs up for full-tort insurance. Everyone else has a bargain limited-tort policy, which restricts potential damages.
 So what, if not driving habits, might explain the great difference? Basic human laziness.
 Pennsylvanians who do not sign a piece of paper saying they want the limited policy automatically receive the full-tort one. State officials, said Rosanne Placey, a spokeswoman for the Pennsylvania Insurance Department, did not want to restrict people's legal rights unless they expressly requested it. But New Jersey residents who make no choice get the cheaper policy. There, officials decided to hold down insurance costs in a state where have they have been a big political issue.
 This, in the land of social science, is called a framing problem. The rest of us know it by the cliched phrase: the answer you get depends on the question you ask. 
 Either way, the central message is that most of us are too busy with life to spend a lot of time on every decision we face. When others give us a chance to avoid a choice, we often take them up on it.
 ''People are extremely passive,'' James J. Choi, an economist at Yale, said. ''They can be pushed around quite a bit, even when there are no formal restrictions on what they can do.''
 At McDonald's, people buy the combo meal when they might rather just have a small order of fries with their Quarter Pounder. Car buyers take the options that come as part of the most heavily promoted package even if they do not want all of them. For their 401(k), many workers simply accept the contribution rate and the investment choices their company picks for them. In countries where being an organ donor is the default choice on driver's licenses, many more people are listed as organ donors.
 The habit is so widespread that some economists have begun making a novel argument. Sometimes, they say, the more severe and the worse that a default option is, the better off people will be. Only then will they take matters into their own hands.
 In many cases, obviously, companies have no interest in changing consumers' behavior. Starbucks, for one, is quite happy to have its customers ordering a tall coffee instead of the little-known short (yes, there is a size smaller than tall at Starbucks). 
 But a good number of framing problems are different. With car insurance, retirement savings and some other matters, government regulators and benevolent employers can help people make better decisions simply by changing the question that is being asked. Money managers even have an incentive to prevent inertia from dictating behavior; it would probably cause people to save more.
 At companies where 401(k) enrollment is automatic, about 85 percent of workers sock away money for retirement in the plan, according to research by Mr. Choi and three other economists. When employees have to sign up for a 401(k), only about 33 percent sign up within six months. After three years, the portion rises to more than 60 percent, suggesting that most people do want to save.
 More companies are moving to automatic-enrollment plans for precisely this reason. ''These are not radical policy solutions,'' said Joel M. Dickson, a portfolio manager at the Vanguard Group. ''They give people the same freedom. They just change where people start.''
 But helping workers save -- which many executives insist they want to do even though it can add to salary costs -- is not as simple as making it the default option. Most automatic 401(k)'s have a low default savings rate, like 2 or 3 percent, and put the money in conservative money-market funds when workers do not pick their own funds. 
 Such a large number of workers stick with these choices that overall saving is no higher at companies with default 401(k)'s than it is at companies without them. When people actively sign up for a plan, they save more than 3 percent on average. 
 This is where the deliberately bad default comes in. If a company set the fallback savings rate at 15 percent, surely most workers would take the time to make individual decisions about their retirement. A 15 percent bite out of the paycheck tends to focus the mind.
 Some critics will doubtless complain that all this smacks of paternalism. But the thing about framing problems is that there is no escaping them. As Mr. Choi says, ''There are no institutional choices that are neutral.''
 No matter what the fallback is, it will attract people. So we might as well at least try to pick ones that maximize -- or, at least initially, minimize -- our well-being.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVER BEHAVIOR (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); DAMAGES (75%); DRIVERS LICENSES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); ORGAN DONATION (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); US 401K PLANS (60%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (50%) Personal Finances; Consumer Behavior

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



235 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Part-Time Forces On Active Duty Decline
The number of Reserve and National Guard troops on domestic and overseas missions has fallen to about 138,000, down from a peak of nearly 220,000 after the invasion of Iraq, a sharp decline that military officials say will continue. A1

British Search For Evidence
Recovery workers have pulled out the last of the visible remains of the 49 people known to have died in the London subway bombings. But their job may not be finished: the police say more remains might be obscured by the train and tunnel. A1

British intelligence officials have sought help from counterparts in the United States and two dozen European allies to develop leads, counterterrorism officials say. A1

Kyrgyzstan Elections Calm
After rioters overturned the government here by storming the presidential building to protest flawed parliamentary elections, voters in Kyrgyzstan peacefully returned to the polls to select a new president. A3

Taliban Kill 10 Afghan Police
Ten Afghan border police officers were killed in a clash with Taliban fighters in the country's southern Helmand Province, and all are believed to have been beheaded, government officials said. A6

Militia Chief To Lead Iran Police
Iran's supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, appointed Brig. Gen. Esmail Ahmadi Moghadam, the commander of a conservative militia, as the new chief of the national police force, the Iranian Student News Agency reported. A4

Luxembourg Approves Treaty
Luxembourg voted in a referendum to approve the European Union's draft constitution, becoming the first country to do so since the treaty was overwhelmingly rejected in France and the Netherlands. A3

Britain's Iraq Exit Strategy
A confidential British military assessment examines the possibility of cutting troop strength in Iraq, to 3,000 from about 8,500 now, in a memo leaked to the newspaper The Mail on Sunday. A7

An attacker mingling with a crowd of men outside an Iraqi Army recruiting center detonated an explosive vest, killing at least 23 volunteers and wounding at least 40 others. A6

After being held for more than seven weeks in solitary confinement in an American military prison in Iraq, Cyrus Kar, an aspiring filmmaker from Los Angeles, was freed in Baghdad. A7

Kurdish security officials said they had arrested suspects from six different terrorist groups that they believe help form training and support networks inside Iraq and have links with international terrorist organizations. A6

Jerusalem Barrier Conflict
Israeli officials acknowledged that the separation barrier in Jerusalem will cut off 55,000 Palestinian residents from the rest of the city. A8

NATIONAL A12-15

Weakened Hurricane Hits Florida Panhandle
After strengthening over the Gulf of Mexico and scaring nearly two million coastal residents into neighboring states, hotels and shelters, Hurricane Dennis weakened just before speeding ashore near Pensacola, Fla. The highest winds were clocked at 120 miles an hour near the wall of the hurricane's eye when it made landfall, dropping from 145 m.p.h. earlier in the morning. A1

Hoping to avoid the recovery delays that bedeviled Florida as it was hit by four hurricanes last year, Gov. Jeb Bush ordered 1,400 National Guardsmen and 700 law enforcement officers to staging areas on Sunday just beyond the path of Hurricane Dennis with instructions to move into ravaged areas as soon as the winds eased. A15

Hurricane Dennis kept its distance, but the rainstorm in progress was still vicious when the exodus began from Daphne East Elementary School, the strongest available hurricane shelter in Baldwin County, Ala. The governor of Alabama had issued a mandatory evacuation order for Mobile County and the southern part of Baldwin. A14

Time Reporter's Claim Disputed
Matthew Cooper, a reporter for Time magazine, never spoke to his confidential source the day he claimed he had received a surprising communication that would allow him to testify before a grand jury investigating the disclosure of the identity of a covert C.I.A. operative, the source's lawyer said. A12

High Court Considerations
Senator Arlen Specter, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, suggested that President Bush could name Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who is retiring, as chief justice if the position opens up. Although Mr. Specter's seeming endorsement of the idea was highly speculative, it was the clearest of his several recent signals that he plans to steer his own course. A13

Several major conservative Christian groups are trying to galvanize support for a conservative nominee to the Supreme Court by spreading alarm that the tax exemptions of churches are at risk. They cite an attempt by government officials to condemn a plot of land owned by the Cottonwood Christian Center in California and the Supreme Court's ruling in favor of the use of eminent domain for economic development. A13

Drug is Creating Orphans
The number of foster children has risen rapidly in states hit hard by methamphetamine use, the overwhelming number of them, officials say, taken from parents who are using or making the drug. While foster populations in cities rose because of crack in the 1990's, methamphetamine is mostly a rural phenomenon and its orphans have arrived in areas without social service networks. A1

Boy's Remains Found
Human remains found at a remote campsite in Montana have been identified as those of 9-year-old Dylan Groene, the Idaho boy who was kidnapped seven weeks ago. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Congress Urged to Extend Terrorism Risk Insurance
Elected officials, private insurers, builders and real estate companies across the country are mounting a broad campaign to urge Congress to extend a program that requires the federal government to cover insurance losses in a terrorist attack. B1

Parties End in Violence
Two people were killed and three wounded when gunfire erupted at three separate parties, two in Queens and one in Brooklyn, the police said. B1

Fuel Storage Raises Concern
Saying that a dangerous amount of diesel fuel is stored in a 25-story building in TriBeCa, elected officials and residents called on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to rescind a variance that permits the storage. The fuel, they warned, could spark a major fire in the event of a terrorist attack or other disaster. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Armstrong Yields Yellow Jersey
In a tactical decision, Lance Armstrong yielded the yellow jersey of the overall leader of the Tour de France, dropping to third place as he sought to decrease the workload and pressure on his team. D1

Earnhardt Wins in Illinois
Dale Earnhardt Jr., who gambled and changed only two tires in a pit stop, won the USG Sheetrock 400 at Chicagoland Speedway by 0.291 seconds over Matt Kenseth. Jimmie Johnson, the pole-sitter, finished the race in third place. D1

U.S. Out of Fed Cup
Venus Williams won her singles match Sunday, but it was too little, too late for the United States Fed Cup team, which lost its semifinal showdown, 4-1, against Russia at Olympic Stadium in Moscow. D5

ARTS E1-8

In Mozart's Footsteps
The Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center has seized on the theme of travel as an organizing principle for its 39th season, taking its cue from Mozart, who traveled for most of his life. Programs for the festival are built around his stays in Paris, London, Italy and Prague. E1

Writer Won't Be Silenced
A Vietnamese writer who has spent time in jail, has seen her books banned and for 11 years was denied a passport to travel abroad, has now been allowed to travel to Europe for the second time. Her priority is to denounce the Hanoi government as irremediably corrupt and abusive. E1

OBITUARIES B7

James Haskins
An educator who, in seeking to make up for the dearth of children's books on black historical figures ultimately became one of America's most prolific children's book authors, he was 63. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Goldman Looks to China
Goldman Sachs and Allianz of Germany are in talks to acquire a stake in China's largest state-owned bank for more than $1 billion, according to a person briefed on the discussions. The talks come at a time when some of the world's biggest financial institutions are rushing into China to acquire stakes in some of the country's large state-owned banks. C1

Debate Over DVD Format
Hollywood has not been able to unite around one of the two new formats of DVD, Blu-ray and HD-DVD, causing debate among studios, retailers and makers of electronics over the future of the technology. C1

First Vioxx Suit
A long legal journey is about to begin for Merck, the giant drug maker, and thousands of people who suffered heart attacks and strokes after taking its painkiller Vioxx. Opening arguments are expected to start in the first civil case to reach trial among thousands of suits that people who took Vioxx or their families have filed against Merck. C1

Newspaper's Move Questioned
In the wake of a decision by the editor of The Cleveland Plain Dealer to withhold two articles based on leaked government documents for fear of criminal prosecution, editors of major newspapers said they saw no reason to back off from such stories. C3

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Unnecessary powers; when a tree isn't really; gunplay in the capital city; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the horses in their night pen.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D10
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E8
Crossword E6
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRISONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); RIOTS (70%); HURRICANES (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (62%); MILITARY RECRUITING (57%); RELIGION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); LUXEMBOURG (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



236 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Vietnamese Writer Won't Be Silenced

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS, July 9 

 BODY:
Wearing an elegant tweed jacket and sipping fruit juice in a Left Bank cafe here, the writer Duong Thu Huong hardly cuts a threatening figure. But Ms. Huong, 58, evidently does in her native Vietnam, where she has spent time in jail, has seen her books banned and for 11 years was denied a passport to travel abroad.
 Her sins, it seems, are many. Her novels dissecting life under one of the last Communist regimes are published and well received in the West. She is a former Communist Party member who was expelled as a traitor. And above all, she is a dissident -- a ''dissident whore,'' one party leader said -- who refused to be silenced even after spending eight months in prison in 1991.
Now, for the second time, she has been allowed to travel to Europe. But in a sense, Vietnam has traveled here with her. She is willing to talk about her life and to discuss her five novels, including her latest, ''No Man's Land,'' published in the United States in April. But her priority is to denounce the Hanoi government as irremediably corrupt and abusive. 
 ''It is my mission to do so on behalf of those who have died under this shameful regime,'' she said, speaking fluent but heavily accented French. ''Because I have a small reputation abroad, I have to say these things. I have to empty what is inside me to feel my conscience is clear. The people have lost the power to react, to reflect, to think. Perhaps I will give people courage.''
 She feels her message is more urgent than ever. Thirty years after the Vietnam War, she sees the regime gaining acceptance abroad by opening up its economy to foreigners under a communism-with-capitalism strategy. She also noted with alarm that Vietnam's prime minister, Phan Van Khai, was received by President Bush at the White House last month.
 ''It is a brutal and ignoble regime that does lots of things to fool foreigners,'' she said during a long conversation. ''If Bush supports this regime, it will be engaging in another war that will drive the people into the mud. This time, instead of using B-52 bombers, it will be using the hands of native turncoats.''
 Until now, she went on, the Vietnam War served to justify the government's grip on power. 
 ''All its propaganda is designed to feed the myth of the war, to flatter and threaten the people,'' she said. ''It tells them: 'You are a heroic people. You should be proud of your history. But never forget that it was the party that led the people to victory.' It deceives the people with blind pride.''
 Ms. Huong's life, too, was inevitably shaped by the war.
 As a child, she said, she was refused a good education because she belonged to neither the peasantry nor the proletariat class: her grandmother was a landowner who in the mid-1950's moved to South Vietnam. But, at 16, Duong Thu Huong (pronounced zung tu hung) was allowed to join a nomadic theater troupe and, showing talent, was then sent to a college training actors, dancers and singers for popular entertainment.
 There she again did well and in 1968 was offered the chance to study in the Soviet Union, East Germany or Bulgaria. ''But I chose to go to the front because our country was at war and my ancestors have always fought for our country,'' she said. ''I joined a group of young artists performing for the troops and victims of the war. The slogan was: 'Our songs are louder than the bombing.' We would silence the screams with songs.''
 But even then, she recalled, she noticed that party members enjoyed special privileges. A bigger shock followed when South Vietnamese prisoners arrived in her zone. ''I discovered the truth that we were also fighting Vietnamese,'' she said. ''Yes, we were being bombed all the time by the Americans, but they were high in the sky and I never saw them. I only saw Vietnamese.''
 She kept her thoughts to herself, as she did after the war when she met up with relatives in Ho Chi Minh City (as Saigon was renamed) and realized that the defeated were better off than the victors. By then, she was organizing artistic events in the city of Hue. When she was 30, she returned to Hanoi to work in the government's movie industry. ''I wrote five screenplays which were made into bad films,'' she said, ''but I couldn't live off my salary.''
 One freelance job proved to be another eye-opener. Working for a group of army generals, she ghost wrote a history of the Vietnam War. ''The generals would discuss among themselves how to correct my text to suit their interests,'' she said. ''They wanted to increase the number of Vietnamese who died to show that no sacrifice was too great for the people.''
 Ms. Huong said she was invited to join the Communist Party in 1979 and did so reluctantly in 1985 at the urging of friends who hoped she could help them. That was also the year that her first novel, ''Beyond Illusions,'' was published in Vietnam to popular acclaim, selling 100,000 copies. But two years later, she said, with the publication of ''Paradise of the Blind,'' another best seller, her problems began.
 ''The party's general secretary, Nguyen Van Linh, offered me a house of the kind reserved for ministers if I would remain silent,'' she said. ''I told him, 'I fight for democracy, I place myself on the side of the people and would never agree to be like a minister.' My principle is that you can lose everything, even your life, but never your honor.''
 Soon afterward, she said, she evaded two assassination plots. She wrote a speech for the 1989 Congress of Vietnamese Writers called ''The Party Should Thank the People'' and was duly drummed out of the party. In 1991 she was jailed for selling secret documents to foreigners, the ''secrets'' being her manuscripts. Unsurprisingly, her next three books -- ''Novel Without a Name,'' ''Memories of a Pure Spring'' and ''No Man's Land'' -- have not been published in Vietnam.
 But all her novels have been published in several foreign languages. And thanks to Will Schwalbe, then at William Morrow and now editor in chief at Hyperion, they have also appeared in English. ''I first heard about her when she was in prison,'' Mr. Schwalbe said in a telephone interview from New York. ''I read 30 or 40 pages of 'Paradise of the Blind' and was blown away. It was the first Vietnamese novel ever published in the United States in translation.''
 Ms. Huong's novels are not openly political, but their leitmotif is the disillusionment of people trapped by a fate beyond their control. Reviewing ''Memories of a Pure Spring'' in The New York Times in 2000, Richard Bernstein wrote: ''One reads it certainly for its politics, but even more for the depth and complexity of its characters who strive to define themselves in a world that still puts everything and everybody in one or another category of ideology and national aspiration.''
 In 1994, through the intervention of Danielle Mitterrand, France's first lady at that time, Ms. Huong was allowed to come to France to receive an award. She was offered political asylum. ''I said, 'Thank you, but in my country fear crushes everything, brave soldiers have become cowardly civilians,''' she recalled. '''That's why I have to return. I return to do one thing: to spit in the face of the regime.'''
 This time, the Italian Embassy in Vietnam obtained her passport, but after a few weeks in Italy and France, she again intends to return to Hanoi, where her two children and four grandchildren live. (Ms. Huong was divorced in 1982.) And once there, if the government has no other plans, she says she will continue writing. ''I am an idealist,'' she said, before adding with a mischievous smile, ''and an imbecile, too.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: For 11 years, Duong Thu Huong was not allowed to travel abroad. (Photo by Richard Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); LITERATURE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); CENSORSHIP (72%) Books and Literature; Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Duong Thu Huong; Alan Riding

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%) VIET NAM (95%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIETNAM (79%) Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



237 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
REMEDY -- Already considered an innovator in cancer treatments, Genentech will report its quarterly earnings but analysts, investors and even patients may be watching to see how the company drug maker will capitalize on recent positive clinical trials for its potential blockbuster drugs Avastin and Herceptin. (Monday.)
 FINAL CALL -- What's $11 billion worth in jail time? Bernard J. Ebbers, right, the founder and former chief executive of WorldCom, will be sentenced for his role in the accounting fraud at his company, the largest corporate fraud in American history. Prosecutors in New York have asked for 85 years for Mr. Ebbers, who has agreed to turn over what is left of his personal fortune to WorldCom investors. (Wednesday.)
 HOPE -- Apple and Advanced Micro Devices report their earnings on Wednesday. Analysts are looking for Apple, which makes the popular iMac computers and iPod music players, to bounce back after a disappointing quarter. A.M.D. has been unable to make a dent in Intel's dominance of the microprocessor market. (Wednesday.)
 TRADE WINDS -- The Commerce Department will release May figures for the United States trade deficit. (Wednesday.)
 OLD SCHOOL -- Hollywood is uncharacteristically sanguine that the release of ''Wedding Crashers,'' starring Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughan, will recapture some of the magic of ''Animal House,'' or at least ''American Pie.'' (Friday.)
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- Consumer Price Index for June (Thursday); Producer Price Index for June and University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey (Friday).


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (86%); ONCOLOGY (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); CANCER (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); SENTENCING (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ETHICS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); MICROPROCESSORS (67%); HISTORY (57%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (53%) Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Motion Pictures; United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Producer Price Index; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Sentences (Criminal)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) Genentech Inc; Apple Computer Inc; Advanced Micro Devices Inc; Worldcom Inc; Commerce Department; Genentech Inc; University of Michigan

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: Bernard J Ebbers

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



238 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: VNU Is Nearing Deal to Buy IMS Health for $6.7 Billion

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
VNU, a large Dutch publishing and market research company, is close to reaching a deal to buy the American company IMS Health for about $6.7 billion, a person close to the negotiations said yesterday.
 The purchase, which is expected to be announced today, would be a further commitment to the United States market by VNU. It already owns Nielsen Media Research, which tracks television audiences, and A.C. Nielsen, the market research group that monitors supermarket sales. Half of VNU's revenues of $4.6 billion last year came from the North American market. 
 IMS Health, based in Fairfield, Conn., is a market research and consulting company that specializes in the pharmaceutical industry. The company, with revenues last year of nearly $1.6 billion, would be a sizable addition to VNU's business and would give it a leading position in market research in the drug business.
 Under the terms of the deal being discussed, VNU would pay $28 a share for IMS Health in a stock and cash transaction, $17 in VNU shares and the remaining $11 in cash, the person close to the talks said. VNU would also assume $300 million in IMS Health's debt.
 The offer is about 8 percent higher than the price of IMS Health stock, which closed on Friday at $25.89, up 64 cents for the day. So far this year, IMS Health shares have risen 11 percent.
 The merger plans come amid continuing consolidation in the media, marketing and information services industries. IMS Health is a leader in supplying market research to a lucrative pharmaceuticals industry, but one beset by challenges including slower growth, tighter regulation and competition from generic drug makers.
 VNU, based in the city of Haarlem, the Netherlands, has transformed itself since the 1960's from a publisher of magazines and newspapers in the Netherlands and Belgium into an international supplier of market research and information, with 38,000 employees working in 100 countries. In 1999, VNU made its first significant move into the United States when it purchased the television audience ratings service Nielsen Media Research, which had been spun off in 1996 from A.C. Nielsen. Two years later VNU also acquired A.C. Nielsen. 
 In publishing, VNU now tends to specialize in niche trade newspapers and magazines including Billboard, Adweek and The Hollywood Reporter.
 IMS Health, founded in 1954, built a business around syndicated market research studies for the drug industry. Since then, it has grown and broadened its range of services, riding the rapid growth of the pharmaceutical business. In 1980, the company made a foray into consumer market research in the apparel and household appliance industries, but before long it refocused its efforts on its traditional expertise of drug industry market research.
 In 1988, Dun & Bradstreet acquired IMS for nearly $1.8 billion, but later split it off, and in 1998 IMS became a separate independent company with its own listing on the New York Stock Exchange. The other company spun off from D&B at the time was Nielsen Media Research.
 Today, the senior management at IMS Health is led by two former I.B.M. executives, David M. Thomas, the executive chairman, and David R. Carlucci, the chief executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MERGERS (75%); GENERIC DRUGS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (57%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (90%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Vnu Nv; Ims Health

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



239 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Ruling on Property Seizure Rallies Christian Groups

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
Conservative Christian groups seeking to galvanize support for a battle over a Supreme Court nomination are rallying around the unlikely symbol of a mega-church in Los Alamitos, Calif., one of a handful of houses of worship that have tangled with towns over the use of eminent domain to take their properties.
 In the aftermath of a Supreme Court ruling two weeks ago in favor of using eminent domain for development that increases a city's tax base, many Christian groups are warning supporters that the tax-exempt status of churches may make them targets, often citing the attempt to take a plot of land from the Cottonwood Christian Center in Los Alamitos.
 Many legal experts say the fears are unfounded, and a federal appeals court ultimately blocked the condemnation of Cottonwood's property. But calling the decision evidence that the court is out of touch, several Christian groups have seized on the ruling as a potent new motivation to fight for a conservative to replace Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who is retiring.
 ''Supreme Court decision threatens property rights putting homes, businesses and churches at risk!'' the American Center for Law and Justice said in an e-mail bulletin to supporters. The American Family Association warned its members, ''If the government decides a mall would produce more tax income than your home or a church, they can now take your home or a church.'' 
 A column distributed via e-mail by the evangelical self-help group Focus on the Family said, ''Churches located in prime areas should be especially concerned.''
 In an interview, Jay Sekulow, a Christian radio host and the chief counsel of the American Center for Law and Justice, said the case had touched a nerve.
 ''We have had more response to this case than we have had to the decision on the Ten Commandments -- how about that?'' Mr. Sekulow said. ''I think it ranks up there with any case we have ever had in showing that the court does, in fact, impact your life.''
 Many other legal experts dismiss the threat to churches. They note that a federal law, many state laws and the First Amendment make it virtually impossible to focus on religious institutions for condemnation, to say nothing of political resistance to tearing down church buildings. 
 ''I think it is paranoid,'' said Prof. Thomas W. Merrill of Columbia University's law school. 
 But Mr. Sekulow said that the Supreme Court ruling could reopen some previously settled issues for churches. And in the atmosphere of the anticipation of a Supreme Court confirmation battle, the idea of a new judicial threat to churches quickly took off. 
 The Christian opposition to eminent domain shows how the often opposed religious and limited-government wings of the conservative movement have come together for the expected court fight. At a moment when the White House is urging its Christian allies to tone down their talk about abortion, school prayer or other cultural issues, others in the movement applauded their Christian counterparts for pulling together. 
 ''If you are Jerry Falwell, it is probably wise to spend some of your time reminding the head of the chamber of commerce why he and you are on the same team,'' said Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform. 
 The notion of cities seizing churches seems like ''a far-fetched scenario,'' but it resonates for many conservative Christians, said Lyman Kellstedt, an emeritus professor of political science at Wheaton College, an evangelical school in Illinois. The image captures the feeling that the evangelical vision of society is losing ground, often because of court decisions, he said. ''From this community's perspective -- and I am part of it -- the culture is moving in a direction that is bad.'' 
 The reaction began on June 23 when the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution did not preclude the City of New London, Conn., from using eminent domain to make room for an office complex by displacing homeowners in the name of development. In a dissent, Justice O'Connor said the majority opinion implied an ''absurd argument'' that, among other things, ''any church might be replaced by a retail store'' in the name of economic uplift. 
 The next day, conservative groups convened for conference calls to plan strategy for an expected vacancy on the Supreme Court, and lawyers on the calls urged the groups to warn their supporters about what they said were the implications of the decision. 
 ''It was partly just a meeting of minds across the right,'' said Sean Rushton, executive director of the Committee for Justice, a group founded to support the president's judicial nominees. The issue gave conservatives a chance to rail against powerful interests on behalf of ''the little guy,'' Mr. Rushton said. ''There was an instant recognition that decision was so bad that it's good, from our side's point of view.''
 Unlike social issues that divide people of different religious faiths or worldviews, the fear of losing a home is nearly universal. Some liberal groups, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Congressional Black Caucus, criticized the ruling as a threat to black or low-income neighborhoods.
 The idea that economic development is a threat to churches dates at least to 1981, when Detroit used eminent domain to take over the Poletown neighborhood, including its two Roman Catholic parishes, so General Motors could build a plant there. One of the two churches protested the move and drew national attention. (The Michigan Supreme Court later overturned its 1981 ruling in support of the Poletown project, making another similar condemnation unlikely).
 But in the Poletown case, the Archdiocese of Detroit had authorized the takeover of the churches. It supported the development project as a boon to the city. In an interview, Bishop Walter A. Hurley of Detroit said the project ''was a very positive thing for the community.'' 
 The threat to churches resurfaced in Washington conservative circles two years ago when the Institute for Justice, an opponent of eminent domain use, issued a report including the headline ''Houses of Worship: Just Another Tax Liability.'' It listed a handful of religious institutions that had fought with local governments over condemnations in the previous five years, and some involved potential new locations. Some were averted or unresolved. 
 In 2000, President Bill Clinton signed the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, which addressed complaints about local opposition to the construction of mega-churches by requiring evidence of compelling government interest for any land-use regulations that inhibited a religious group.
 Cottonwood, a 6,000-member church, was among the first to test the law. In the late 1990's, the church bought a 15-acre plot in Cypress, Calif., to build a new facility, but before construction began the town condemned the land so that the retailer Costco could build a store.
 The church sued the town, citing the land-use law and the First Amendment. Courts had ruled that the First Amendment's protection of free expression also protected pornography shops from targeted condemnation. In 2003, the church won a preliminary injunction from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, leading to a lucrative settlement for the church.
 Jared Leland, a lawyer for the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty who helped represent the church, acknowledged that the Cottonwood case was a better example of protections for churches than it was of the risks they face. ''Unlike private homes, religious institutions still have the First Amendment, federal law and state law to lean on,'' he said.
 Still, Mr. Leland argued that letting cities use eminent domain to increase their tax base nonetheless increased the vulnerability of tax-exempt churches. ''The decision will inevitably draw the bulldozers toward religious institutions first,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Worshipers in April at the Cottonwood Christian Center in Los Alamitos, Calif., which was involved in a dispute over eminent domain. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); RELIGION (93%); CONSERVATISM (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS (89%); POLITICS (79%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) Religion and Churches; Conservatism (US Politics); Eminent Domain; Religion and Churches

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTER FOR LAW & JUSTICE (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FAMILY ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN CENTER FOR LAW & JUSTICE (55%) Cottonwood Christian Center (Church)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: David Kirkpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) Los Alamitos (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



240 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Pursues Plans Outside Manhattan, and Even Critics Applaud

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
While public attention was focused on the city's ill-fated plan to build a stadium on the West Side of Manhattan over the past two years, the Bloomberg administration quietly labored over projects and development plans in corners of the city -- from Jamaica, Queens, to Staten Island -- that generated very few headlines.
 But the city has only so many resources, and not every project can get the full attention of City Hall. With the stadium plan now dead in Albany and the city's Olympic bid rejected, urban planners and local development officials are hoping that the Bloomberg administration will bring to other projects the same kind of energy and focus that it displayed on the West Side.
Even critics of the Bloomberg administration in private organizations, like Robert D. Yaro, the president of the Regional Plan Association, and Jonathan Bowles, the research director of the Center for an Urban Future, give Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg high marks for doing what few previous mayors have done: promoting economic development projects in the boroughs outside of Manhattan that could transform entire neighborhoods.
 Those efforts include rezoning the crumbling industrial streets of Greenpoint and Williamsburg in Brooklyn in a plan for a waterfront residential neighborhood; reinvigorating the Hunts Point industrial park in the Bronx; and helping to create a relatively inexpensive office market in Long Island City, Queens. 
 But some officials active in development efforts in Jamaica and Long Island City say that while the Bloomberg administration did not ignore their communities, they wished that it had moved more swiftly. 
 ''I give the administration enormous credit for its work in the boroughs,'' said Mr. Bowles of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit research group. ''But New York moves so slowly sometimes. It was the mayor's personal involvement on the West Side and Williamsburg that pushed them forward in an expedited manner. It'd be great if he could devote the same energy and resources to other projects.''
 Gayle Baron, president of the Long Island City Business Development Corporation, said there was increasing interest by Manhattan corporations in moving some of their operations to Long Island City. Citigroup is expected to start construction of its second office building there this fall. 
 The city, she said, is in final negotiations with a developer, Tishman Speyer Properties, over a proposed 2.2 million-square-foot commercial and retail project on a city-owned garage site at Queens Plaza, and Silvercup Studios plans a major building project in 2007.
 But efforts have been ''a little disjointed,'' Ms. Baron said, and she longs for something bigger.
 ''Where I think we really need help is with a comprehensive marketing initiative, with city funds, to really brand Long Island City,'' she said. ''It's time for a comprehensive economic development plan that takes into account the commercial interests and the manufacturing and arts groups that continue to thrive in the area.''
 Mayor Bloomberg has dismissed criticism from his political rivals who say he has been ''Manhattan-centric'' and obsessed with stadium building, to the exclusion of projects in Queens, Brooklyn, the Bronx or Staten Island. In speeches before civic and business groups, he has challenged his critics to name another mayor who had invested $2 billion in projects in all five boroughs.
 ''The press has been focused on the West Side and the stadium, but my agency has been focused on all five boroughs for the last three and a half years,'' said Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 ''We've been working hard on the redevelopment of the Bronx Terminal Market, the homeport site in Staten Island, Downtown Brooklyn, the rezoning of Greenpoint-Williamsburg and the Potamkin project in Harlem,'' he said, referring to the Harlem Auto Mall, a joint venture of the Potamkin Auto Group and General Motors.
 In the next few weeks, the Bloomberg administration expects to announce a major development project in Jamaica and the selection of a developer for the proposed East River Science Park, a corporate park for life science industries near Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. 
 In Coney Island, the city is working with neighborhood leaders to develop a plan for the area that includes new commercial strips, infrastructure improvements and the rehabilitation of the boardwalk and entertainment areas. 
 The minor-league ballpark built there by the Giuliani administration, KeySpan Park, has attracted thousands of visitors, but has done little for the economic vitality of the neighborhood.
 And the state and the city will soon select a developer for a $915 million railroad station, the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Station on Eighth Avenue in Manhattan.
 Although the announcements of these projects have won praise, some neighborhood leaders say they hope the staffs of the Department of City Planning and the development corporation will be able to devote more time to follow through now that the Olympics are off the agenda.
 For instance, although the planning department is rezoning a 415-block portion of Jamaica, local leaders complain that the effort is two years behind schedule.
 The city's development efforts have also drawn criticism for their possible economic effects. The city has announced plans to build a new cruise ship terminal along the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook, but Mr. Bowles and others said they worried that the Bloomberg administration appeared determined to eliminate the blue-collar maritime jobs on nearby piers. 
 In some of the harshest criticism of the administration, Michael Sorkin, the director of the graduate urban design program at City College, said that too often the city has rezoned industrial areas of Long Island City and Greenpoint for luxury residential buildings, driving out manufacturing jobs and longtime residents unable to pay rising rents.
 ''To me, the administration's economic development program is distorted in favor of a trickle-down theory of benefits from development,'' Mr. Sorkin said. ''It's heavily weighted in favor of office development and housing for those who can best afford it.''
 He said the city should focus on less expensive housing, transportation and ''economic diversity, rather than relying on only one mode of employment: office jobs.''
 Still, many urban planners, developers and neighborhood development groups have a generally favorable view of the administration's economic plans.
 ''I don't think there's ever been a more receptive and professional government operation than the one we've had over the past four years,'' said Fred Harris of Avalon Bay Communities, which is building residential towers at the Queens West development, on the East River in Hunters Point.
 Mr. Harris said he was somewhat relieved that the Olympic Village, which would have been built to house athletes at the south end of Queens West, is not going forward. He said he had been ''terrified'' at the prospect of 4,500 apartments from the Olympic Village suddenly going on the retail market after the Olympics ended in what has been a slow-to-develop neighborhood.
 Looking forward, Mr. Yaro of the Regional Plan Association said Manhattan should not be ignored. He said the city should develop a comprehensive plan for mixed-use development at the West Side railyards where the city wanted to build the stadium.
 He and others also called on the city to become more active and vigilant in Lower Manhattan, where commercial vacancy rates remain high, even if the state largely controls the rebuilding effort. 
 ''We've got to be focused like a laser beam on Lower Manhattan,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''There's a crisis of confidence down there. Incentives help, but the business community wants assurances that rebuilding will move ahead.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: KeySpan Park in Coney Island, built by the Giuliani administration, has had little success in stimulating development in the neighborhood. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ZONING (78%); CITIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); OLYMPICS (55%) Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) Charles V Bagli; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Brooklyn (NYC); Greenpoint (NYC); Williamsburg (NYC); Hunts Point (NYC); Bronx (NYC); Long Island City (NYC); Queens (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



241 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Congress Urged To Extend Help After Attacks

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10 

 BODY:
Elected officials, private insurers, builders and real estate companies across the country are mounting a broad campaign to urge Congress to extend a program that requires the federal government to cover insurance losses in a terrorist attack.
 President Bush and Congress created the program nearly three years ago, in an effort to restart billions of dollars in construction projects that had been put on hold because private insurers began excluding terrorism coverage from standard policies after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 But the federal program is set to expire at the end of the year, creating uncertainty and even panic in the real estate and construction industries, particularly in New York City, with its history as a terror target, and in other areas considered vulnerable to attack, including Boston, Miami, Chicago, Los Angeles and Washington itself.
 Industry leaders and their allies in Congress are warning that if Washington does not reauthorize the program before the end of the year, terrorism coverage will become more difficult, if not impossible, to obtain, and many real estate transactions could be jeopardized.
 The sense of urgency has only heightened since the deadly terrorist bombings of three subway trains and a bus in London during the morning rush on Thursday. 
 ''Clearly what happened in London is going to make the private insurers even more skittish about offering terrorism insurance on their own,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has called on his colleagues to reauthorize the program.
 The current program requires the federal government to pay 90 percent of the losses from an attack by foreign terrorists if the losses are greater than $10 billion, up to a total of $100 billion. The government will pay a smaller percentage for losses under $10 billion.
 Jeffrey DeBoer, president of the Real Estate Roundtable, an advocacy organization for the major real estate companies, said that Washington's failure to act could prompt a crisis in the industry similar to the one after the Sept. 11 attacks, when more than $15 billion in real estate transactions were held up or canceled because of a lack of terrorism insurance.
 ''If the year ends without a federal program of any sort, then the economy is at risk,'' he said.
 But it is unclear what, if any, help will be coming from Washington. The Bush administration recently announced that it would not support an extension of the program, known as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, unless the insurance industry was willing to play a larger role.
 The administration's stance was articulated in a letter that Treasury Secretary John W. Snow delivered to Congressional leaders on the same day his agency released a long study concluding that the industry could, in time, increase its capacity to insure terrorism risk.
 The administration's position may, in turn, embolden lawmakers who have questioned whether the situation is as dire as business leaders claim and whether the program constitutes a needless bailout of the insurance industry.
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican who is chairman of the Banking Committee, the panel with jurisdiction over the program, recently expressed strong skepticism about continued government involvement in the marketplace.
 Beyond that, he argued that the federal insurance program ''has created considerable market dysfunction which in turn has led to additional dependency on the federal government backstop.''
 But Mr. Shelby left open the possibility that he would support a temporary extension of the program, if only to give American businesses and their insurers time to adjust to the prospect of a reduced federal role in the insurance industry. ''Market-based solutions are always more preferable to government intervention,'' he said.
 Representative Michael G. Oxley, a Republican and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, the panel charged with overseeing the program in that chamber, went even further, saying he did not believe that an extension of the program was ''in the best interest of American consumers or the economy.''
 He went on to say that the current program should be overhauled both to reduce the government's role and to encourage the industry to increase the availability of terrorism insurance.
 Proponents of the current program argue that in the absence of terrorism coverage, banks will be reluctant to finance real estate purchases, construction projects or other such investments. Banks usually require businesses to insure any property they use to secure loans, according to industry experts.
 Proponents also say that critics of government intervention ignore the crisis the business community faced following the 9/11 attacks, when losses totaled more than $40 billion. Insurers suddenly began excluding terrorism coverage from standard commercial policies, arguing that the risks were too difficult to predict and could ultimately ruin them. (Eventually, some insurers began to offer terrorism insurance again, though at a much higher cost and in limited amounts.)
 Mr. Schumer and his Democratic colleague from New York, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, sent a letter at the end of last week to Mr. Shelby and Senator Paul Sarbanes, the senior Democrat on the Banking Committee, expressing their concern over the report issued by the Treasury Department and arguing that the economy would be hurt if the federal program came to an abrupt halt.
 In making their case, the two senators cited testimony that Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, gave before a House committee contending that the private sector would not be able to provide adequate amounts of terrorism insurance on its own.
 Martin L. DePoy, a spokesman for the Coalition to Insure Against Terrorism, made up of trade associations, corporations and nonprofit groups, questioned the claims of officials who say that businesses and their insurers will be able to solve this problem without significant government involvement.
 ''We don't share their optimism that the private insurance market is cable of taking on this kind of risk in the near term,'' Mr. DePoy explained. ''This risk is so unique.''
 Industry experts say that insurers have already begun informing their clients that they plan to sharply limit or eliminate existing coverage for terrorist attacks if the federal program expires.
 That, in turn, would create all sorts of problems. Lenders, for example, could foreclose on existing loans if buildings suddenly lacked full insurance coverage. But a more realistic prospect is the response that many banks had in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks: increasing interest charges, or requesting that borrowers put up more money as down payments.
 Marolyn Davenport, senior vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said that this had created great uncertainty for owners of commercial properties ranging from office buildings and hospitals to amusement parks, sports stadiums, casinos and shopping malls.
 ''There is a ripple effect,'' she said, referring to the possibility that the federal program will expire at year's end. ''It certainly creates enormous economic disruption. It threatens jobs. It threatens economic growth.''
 Rolf Lundberg, senior vice president for Congressional and Public Affairs at the United States Chamber of Commerce, predicted that the consequences for the economy could be disastrous if businesses suddenly lost terrorism coverage.
 ''That is potentially the start of a serious storm for our economy,'' Mr. Lundberg explained. ''We can't afford a repetition of the near paralysis that followed 9/11.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); REAL ESTATE (93%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); INSURANCE (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%) Terrorism; Insurance; Law and Legislation; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%) Raymond Hernandez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



242 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Un-Spin The Budget

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Later this week the White House budget director plans to put on an aviator costume, march up to a microphone and declare Mission Accomplished in the war on deficits. O.K., I'm not sure about the costume bit.
 Seriously, the administration is poised to do the same thing on the budget that it has done again and again in Iraq: claim that a modest, probably temporary lull in the flow of bad news shows that victory is around the corner and that its policies have been vindicated. 
 So let me do some pre-emptive de-spinning and debunking.
 To understand where the budget deficit came from, you can't do better than the Jan. 18, 2001, issue of the satirical newspaper The Onion, which predicted the future with eerie precision. ''We must squander our nation's hard-won budget surplus on tax breaks for the wealthiest 15 percent,'' the magazine's spoof had the president-elect declare. ''And, on the foreign front, we must find an enemy and defeat it.'' 
 And so it has turned out. President Bush has presided over the transformation of a budget surplus into a large deficit, which threatens the government's long-run solvency. The principal cause of that reversal was Mr. Bush's unprecedented decision to cut taxes, especially on the wealthiest Americans, while taking the nation into an expensive war.
 Where's the good news? Well, for the past four years actual tax receipts have consistently come in below expectations, so that the deficit is even bigger than one might have predicted given the administration's don't-tax-but-spend-anyway policies. Recent tax numbers, however, finally offer a positive surprise. The Congressional Budget Office suggests in its latest monthly budget review that the deficit in fiscal 2005 will be ''significantly less than $350 billion, perhaps below $325 billion.'' Last year the deficit was $412 billion.
 The usual suspects on the right are already declaring victory over the deficit, and proclaiming vindication for the Laffer Curve -- the claim that tax cuts pay for themselves, because they have such a miraculous effect on the economy that revenue actually goes up.
 But the fact is that revenue remains far lower than anyone would have predicted before the tax cuts began. In January 2001 the budget office forecast revenues of $2.57 trillion in fiscal 2005. Even with the recent increase in receipts, the actual number will be at least $400 billion less. 
 And nonpartisan budget experts, such as Ed McKelvey of Goldman Sachs, believe that even the limited good news on the budget is a temporary blip, not a turning point. Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, warns us to take the new revenue figures with a ''grain of salt,'' and declares that ''if you take yourself to 2008, 2009 or 2010, that vision is the same today as it was two months ago.''
 A close look at the tax data explains why these experts believe that we're seeing a temporary uptick in revenues, not a sustained change in the trend. Taxes that are closely tied to the number of jobs and the average wage, such as payroll taxes and income taxes automatically withheld from paychecks, aren't showing any big pickup. This confirms other data showing that the economy as a whole is, if anything, doing worse than one would expect at this stage of an economic recovery.
 It turns out that all of the upside surprise in tax receipts is coming from two sources. One is tax payments from corporations, up both because last year corporate profits grew much more rapidly than the rest of the economy and because the effective tax rate on corporations went up when a temporary tax break, introduced in 2002, expired. Both are one-time events
 The other source of increased revenue is nonwithheld income taxes -- taxes that aren't deducted from paychecks but are instead paid by people receiving additional, nonsalary income. The bounce in nonwithheld taxes probably reflects mainly capital gains on stocks and real estate, together with bonuses paid in the finance and real estate industries. Again, this revenue boost looks like a temporary blip driven by rising stocks and the housing bubble.
 In other words, we're still deep in the fiscal quagmire, with federal revenues far below what's needed to pay for federal programs. And we won't get out of that quagmire until a future president admits that the Bush tax cuts were a mistake, and must be reversed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%) Taxation

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2005



243 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: Cancer Drugs Offer Hope, but at Huge Expense

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
Ten thousand dollars once seemed a lot to pay for a few months' supply of a drug.
 No more. Avastin. Erbitux. Gleevec. Herceptin. Rituxan. Tarceva. These are among the first in a wave of new drugs giving hope to millions of cancer patients by treating the disease in new ways, like blocking the blood vessels that feed tumors. 
 But they are all highly expensive, up to $100,000 for a course of treatment that lasts a few months. That is hundreds of times the cost of older, more toxic cancer drugs, and several times the annual cost of AIDS drugs, whose prices caused widespread anger during the 1990's. 
 And except for Gleevec, a leukemia drug from Novartis that has produced spectacular results, the new cancer drugs help most patients only marginally, prolonging life by a few weeks or months. 
 For now, the high-priced cancer drugs are a relatively small part of overall medical spending. But some doctors warn that with more new drugs coming, the use of superexpensive therapies may further fuel the runaway costs of the health care system. 
 Dr. Leonard Saltz, a colon cancer specialist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said patients might face rationing of care if costs continued to rise.
 ''I don't know how much money there is in the till to pay for all this, but I have to be worried there isn't enough,'' Dr. Saltz said. ''There is a limit as a society to how much we'll be able to spend on each patient.'' 
 Health care economists say the rising costs of the new cancer treatments and other drugs will force difficult questions on doctors and policy makers. Should patients be guaranteed access to drugs no matter what their cost? And should physicians be encouraged to consider cost when they decide on treatment -- something most doctors in this country now say they do not do?
 Drug companies say many factors drive the pricing of their drugs, including the high cost of research and development, complex and expensive manufacturing processes and the value the drugs provide for patients. 
 As doctors learn how to use combinations of new drugs in treatment, the therapies will extend the lives of more and more patients, said Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, president for product development at Genentech, a biotechnology company in South San Francisco, Calif. The company makes several of the new drugs, including Avastin, that are widely considered the most promising. A year's supply of the drug for an average colon cancer patient costs $54,000.
 ''It's a very reasonable thing to ask about the cost of therapies,'' Dr. Hellmann said. ''But I just don't want people to lose sight of how meaningful the changes in treatment are.''
 For now, most patients are able to obtain the new drugs, either through insurance coverage or assistance programs. Lung cancer was diagnosed in Shawnette Treat, 37, early last year and she was told her life expectancy was less than two years. She now takes Tarceva, which costs almost $90 a day, or $31,000 a year.
 Ms. Treat, who lives with her husband and two children in Melbourne, Ark., has private insurance, which covers 80 percent of Tarceva's cost. But she stopped working in March after undergoing a double mastectomy when the cancer spread. She said she could not afford her insurer's $500 monthly co-payment for Tarceva.
 ''My husband's the only one working, and we have bills and stuff that we have to pay, and it takes all he makes for us to make it,'' Ms. Treat said. ''Five hundred dollars is a lot to us a month.''
 The Patient Advocate Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Newport News, Va., that helps people obtain medical care, is covering the monthly payment, Ms. Treat said. ''I wouldn't be able to take it if they didn't pay my co-pay.'' 
 But the foundation covers only a few kinds of cancer and does not directly assist people who are uninsured, said Beth Darnley, the foundation's chief program officer. Those patients must apply to Medicaid or to the companies for discounted drugs. 
 In some cases, patients are discontinuing treatments or taking other drastic steps, doctors say.
 Dr. Angela Dispenzieri, an oncologist at the Mayo Clinic who specializes in treating a blood cancer called multiple myeloma, said she avoided discussing a drug called Thalomid with patients who could not afford it. The drug costs $25,000 a year and will not be covered by Medicare until next year. 
 ''I don't want them to feel bad,'' she said.
 If history is any guide, health care professionals say, patients, doctors and lawmakers will not want to confront questions about how the medical system should deal with the cost of the new drugs. 
 ''There's not really any incentive in the system to be more rational,'' said Dr. John Hornberger, an adjunct clinical professor of medicine at Stanford University and a practicing physician who studies drug costs.
 Policy makers in the United States, unlike those in Britain and some other countries, do not measure the cost-effectiveness of new drugs, Dr. Hornberger said. The government does not control drug prices, and Medicare is prohibited from making coverage decisions based on cost; it must base its decisions solely on the drugs' performance. 
 In terms of the cost per life saved, cholesterol-lowering drugs like Lipitor, which reduce heart attacks and strokes, are probably far more effective than cancer drugs, Dr. Hornberger said. But cancer is a uniquely frightening disease, and people will pay almost any price for treatments. Also, most cancer drugs do not have good substitutes; if a drug works -- even marginally -- patients and doctors clamor for it, and insurers have little choice but to cover it, Dr. Hornberger said.
 While some of the new drugs are difficult to make, their prices are unrelated to their manufacturing costs, said Geoffrey Porges, a biotechnology analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. Drug makers charge what they think the market will accept, he said. 
 ''It's sort of one of those things where everyone looks over their shoulder at everyone else, says, 'He started it, it wasn't me,' and it builds,'' Mr. Porges said. 
 Advocacy groups for cancer patients have been mostly silent on drug prices because pressing drug makers might discourage them from making the billion-dollar investments necessary to find new drugs.
 Doctors also do not want to consider cost, said Dr. Eric Nadler, a researcher at Harvard Medical School who has studied the attitudes of oncologists on the issue. In his study, about 80 percent of cancer doctors said they would prescribe a drug costing up to $70,000 if it would extend a patient's life just two months longer than the standard treatment.
 In fact, the way doctors are reimbursed for cancer drugs gives them an incentive to prescribe the most expensive treatments. The drugs are generally given intravenously in a hospital or doctors' office, and Medicare pays doctors for the cost of the drug plus a slight extra fee to help cover their overhead. The higher the price of the drug, the greater the extra fee. 
 As a result of these forces, drug makers have faced only scattered opposition to the rising prices of new cancer treatments. The upward spiral started in 1992, when Bristol-Myers Squibb began charging $4,000 a year for Taxol, a breast cancer treatment that was among the first so-called targeted drugs, which are aimed at destroying tumors without the side effects of traditional chemotherapy.
 At the time, some lawmakers and patient advocates complained, noting that Taxol had been invented at taxpayer expense at the National Cancer Institute. But Bristol held firm.
 Then in 1998, Genentech began charging $20,000 a year for Herceptin, another targeted therapy for breast cancer. The price attracted notice, but little criticism.
 Four years later, Bristol and ImClone Systems began charging as much as $100,000 a year for Erbitux, a drug for advanced colon cancer. (Because different patients have different treatment cycles, these prices are averages, as computed by the companies or financial analysts.) 
 For drug makers, the high prices have been a boon. Shares of Genentech have quadrupled in the last two years. Dr. Hellman of Genentech noted that the company began researching Avastin in 1989, at a time when many scientists doubted it could work. Genentech spent hundreds of millions of dollars researching the drug, and decided to build a plant to manufacture it years before receiving approval to sell Avastin in 2004. 
 Considering the expense and risk Genentech incurred -- as well as the costs of similar treatment -- Avastin is fairly priced, Dr. Hellman said.
 ''It's a giant breakthrough therapy,'' she said. ''The value to patients is very high.''
 Cancer drugs will be the fastest-growing part of the drug market for the next five years, with costs rising 20 percent a year, more than double overall drug spending, analysts say. Every major drug maker is now investing heavily in oncology, rushing to capitalize on new research about the way cancer cells reproduce. Most of the new drugs attack the proteins that help tumors grow, and most are produced by specially engineered bacteria, unlike the older drugs which can be chemically synthesized.
 Cancer drugs are not the only expensive new treatments; some drugs for rheumatoid arthritis cost more than $10,000 a year. But the gap between performance and cost is especially pronounced for the cancer treatments. A Genentech study of colon cancer patients showed that a combination of Avastin and standard drug therapy extended the life of the average patient less than 5 months -- to 20.3 months from 15.6 months -- compared with the standard treatment. With the notable exception of Gleevec, from Novartis, which has been widely praised for prolonging the lives of leukemia patients, most other drugs show even smaller improvements in survival. 
 Some oncologists are beginning to question cancer drug prices publicly. Dr. Saltz of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center said doctors must consider drug cost when they discuss treatments with patients. 
 ''We'd like to feel that it's wrong to put a value on human life and that we as a society won't do it,'' he said, ''but we do it every day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shawnette Treat takes a cancer drug that costs $90 a day. A nonprofit group helps her pay for it. (Photo by Mark Schiefelbein for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart: ''The Price of Fighting Cancer''The estimated costs of some of a new wave of cancer drugs, which aim at the disease without the side effects of traditional chemotherapy.CANCER DRUG: ErbituxMANUFACTURER: ImClone/Bristol-MyersAPPROVED FOR USE: 2004TYPE OF CANCER TREATED: ColorectalEST. ANNUAL COST PER PATIENT: $111,000CANCER DRUG: AvastinMANUFACTURER: GenentechAPPROVED FOR USE: 2004TYPE OF CANCER TREATED: ColorectalEST. ANNUAL COST PER PATIENT: 54,000CANCER DRUG: HerceptinMANUFACTURER: GenentechAPPROVED FOR USE: 1998TYPE OF CANCER TREATED: BreastEST. ANNUAL COST PER PATIENT: 38,000CANCER DRUG: TarcevaMANUFACTURER: GenentechAPPROVED FOR USE: 2004TYPE OF CANCER TREATED: LungEST. ANNUAL COST PER PATIENT: 35,000(Source by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER DRUGS (95%); CANCER (94%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); COLORECTAL CANCER (89%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); LEUKEMIA (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); MEDICARE (70%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%) Cancer; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gleevec (Drug); Avastin (Drug); Herceptin (Drug); Tarceva (Drug); Erbitux (Drug); Medicare; Cancer

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (55%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (56%); NOVN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SUSAN DESMOND-HELLMANN (50%) Alex Berenson; John (Dr) Hornberger; Shawnette Treat

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



244 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: VNU to Buy A Specialist In Tracking Health Care

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON, July 11 

 BODY:
VNU, the Dutch market research company, said Monday that it would buy IMS Health, a provider of health care research and data based in Connecticut, for about $6.4 billion, to take advantage of the growth in so-called lifestyle drugs. 
 The combined company would cut costs by streamlining operations in some markets. But it would also focus on a blurring of lines between the market for pharmaceutical products and the market for general consumer goods, in particular the trend toward lifestyle drugs, like treatments for impotence, weight loss and social anxiety. 
Under the terms of the deal, IMS shareholders would receive $11.25 a share in cash and 0.6 share of VNU stock for every IMS share they hold. That values IMS shares at about $28.10, the companies said, a premium of about 9 percent to the closing price of $25.89 on Friday.
 Analysts said VNU might have overpaid, and its stock fell 3.7 percent, to 22.49 euros, in Amsterdam.
 ''An opportunity to make a transformational transaction arose, so we took it,'' Rob van den Bergh, chief executive of VNU, said of the deal in a phone interview from the Netherlands. ''We have a few things they can use, and they have a few things we can use.''
 IMS shares rose 2.4 percent, to $26.50, in New York. IMS is based in Fairfield, Conn.
 Increasingly, pharmaceutical companies market lifestyle drugs as they do consumer products, with heavy television advertising. But developing a drug can cost $500 million or more, making information on broad consumer trends, which are tracked by VNU subsidiaries, valuable in combination with the more specialized information on drugs that IMS provides.
 Though VNU operates in more than 100 countries and maintains headquarters in both Haarlem in the Netherlands and in New York, its center of gravity has been shifting toward the United States in recent years. 
 Mr. van den Bergh moved to New York in 2002, after VNU's acquisition of A.C. Nielsen, which tracks retail sales, and its sister company, the television ratings service Nielsen Media Research.
 After the IMS deal, more than half of the combined company's $5.6 billion in revenue would come from the United States. In addition to the Nielsen businesses, VNU also publishes trade magazines like Adweek, The Hollywood Reporter and Billboard.
 In smaller markets, Mr. van den Bergh said, the deal will offer the companies an opportunity to cut costs by combining some aspects of their operations. VNU said the deal offered the prospect of $130 million in annual savings by 2008. Analysts said those estimates might be ambitious.
 VNU said it would buy back up to 500 million euros of its own shares, or about $600 million worth, and borrow 2.5 billion euros in a bridge loan from its banks to help finance the deal.
 VNU said it expected the deal to close in the first quarter of 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TRENDS (89%); EURO (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); EXECUTIVES (52%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Medicine and Health; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (81%); IMS HEALTH INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Vnu Nv (Co); Ims Health Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



245 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: With Sierra Club's Help, Ford Pushes a New Hybrid

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 11 

 BODY:
When the Sierra Club approached the Ford Motor Company last year and offered to help promote the company's first hybrid electric vehicle, the company spurned the olive branch.
 The Sierra Club has long been a nemesis of Detroit automakers and a critic of Ford's chairman and chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr. But when Mr. Ford later heard of the decision, he was said to be angry that an opportunity had been missed to buff the company's image in the way that Toyota has done so deftly with its hybrids. 
Ford is not letting the chance slip a second time. On Monday, Ford and the Sierra Club said they would jointly promote the company's second hybrid, a version of its Mercury Mariner sport utility vehicle that went on sale this week and will be sold almost exclusively online. The Sierra Club will promote the Mariner in a newsletter sent to 300,000 members and has invited Ford to bring the Mariner to a September environmental conference that will also feature hybrids from Toyota and Honda. The Sierra Club and Ford will also work jointly on a campaign to teach consumers how to drive hybrids for maximum fuel savings.
 ''Hopefully we'll come away with an understanding that neither side has horns on their head,'' said Niel Golightly, Ford's director for sustainable business strategies.
 But while the Sierra Club was offering a carrot to Ford, two smaller groups based in San Francisco, the Rainforest Action Network and Global Exchange, said on Monday that they would continue to wield the stick with the company that has been their main target in the auto industry. 
 In the past, they have financed newspaper advertisements, including one that depicted Mr. Ford as Pinocchio and accused him of reneging on a commitment to improve S.U.V. fuel economy. On Monday, they said they would run a new newspaper ad aimed at Mr. Ford sometime this month. The ad has a picture of Mr. Ford next to images of Vice President Dick Cheney and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. 
 ''What do these men have in common?'' the ad asks, ''They all love gas guzzlers.'' 
 Ford's new cars and trucks had the lowest overall average fuel economy of the six largest automakers, at 18.8 miles per gallon, according to Environmental Protection Agency data for the 2003 model year, the most recent data available. That was in large part because the company sells so many pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s.
 As a result, Mr. Ford has had a tortuous relationship with environmentalists, in part because many groups feel he is the only auto executive who will listen. In Detroit, he has been outspoken on issues like global warming and had his company's storied River Rouge plant rebuilt with a grass roof to mitigate emissions. At the same time, his environmental commitments have been tested by the rocky business climate of domestic automakers. Although Ford is profitable, unlike G.M., its debt is rated at junk status by Standard & Poor's. Environmentalists have not been patient. 
 ''My fear is that Bill Ford is showing his true stripes as just another short-sighted auto executive with no interest in the environment, our oil dependence, or the truth,'' said Daniel Becker, the Sierra Club's top global warming strategist, in an interview in March 2002. Mr. Ford took over in late 2001, the year his company posted a $5.5 billion loss. 
 Now Mr. Becker says the company deserves credit for the steps it has taken. 
 In the newsletter to Sierra Club members, he said the group would still push Ford to significantly improve gas mileage and to stop fighting environmental regulations. 
 But he also said ''the Ford we challenged at the beginning of this campaign is different from the one we face today.'' He added: ''It's easy to run a campaign against a target that is ignoring you. The hard part comes when they start doing things that you want them to.'' 
 For the Sierra Club, the campaign is acknowledgment that Ford has been more aggressive on hybrids than its European and American competitors. Last year, Ford became the third automaker, after Toyota and Honda, to offer the public a hybrid electric vehicle on par with those offered by Toyota and Honda -- a version of its Escape S.U.V. Ford will be about three years ahead of General Motors and DaimlerChrysler in offering Americans a hybrid comparable to the Toyota Prius. 
 Mr. Golightly of Ford said the company was trying to reach out to nongovernmental groups ''to explain to them where we're coming from.''
 He added: ''I think that Sierra Club has always had a very strong point of view on automotive companies and our company in particular, and they've been candid about presenting that point of view. One of the things we've realized over time is it probably makes more sense to have face-to-face discussions about these issues and understand where each of us is coming from.''
 Michael Brune, the executive director of the Rainforest Action Network, is not ready to pat Ford on the back, saying Ford will produce so few Mariners that it will not make much of an impact on the company's fuel economy numbers. Ford plans to produce 2,000 Mariner hybrids for the 2006 model year and expand to about 4,000, on top of 20,000 Escape hybrids it produces annually.
 ''It's a nice gesture, but we think it's more P.R. than progress,'' Mr. Brune said. 
 Mr. Becker said, ''we have not sheathed our sword, but we're recognizing that they're making some cleaner vehicles.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about a decision by Ford and the Sierra Club to jointly promote a hybrid version of the Mercury Mariner misidentified the group that had depicted Ford's chief executive as Pinocchio in attacks on the company's environmental policies. It was the Bluewater Network, not the Rainforest Action Network and the Global Exchange.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A hybrid version of Ford's Mercury Mariner sport utility vehicle went on sale yesterday, and will be sold almost exclusively online. (Photo by Ford Motor Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EMISSIONS (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); RAIN FORESTS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%) Automobiles; Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; Trade Shows and Fairs; Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (94%); RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (82%) Ford Motor Co; Sierra Club ; Global Exchange; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Rainforest Action Network (Orgn)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (56%) Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



246 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Parkinson's Treatment and the Urge to Gamble 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 11 

 BODY:
Joe Neglia was a retired government intelligence worker with Parkinson's disease when he suddenly developed a troublesome gambling habit.
 After losing thousands of dollars playing slot machines near his California home several times a day for nearly two years, Mr. Neglia says he stumbled across an Internet report linking a popular Parkinson's drug he used with compulsive gambling. 
''I thought, 'Oh my God, this must be it,''' he said. Three days after stopping the drug, Mirapex, ''all desire to gamble just went away completely.''
 ''I felt like I had my brain back,'' he continued.
 A Mayo Clinic study published yesterday in July's Archives of Neurology describes 11 other Parkinson's patients who developed the problem while taking drugs for the disease from 2002 to 2004. Doctors have since identified 14 additional Mayo patients with the problem, said Dr. Maryellen Leann Dodd, a Mayo psychiatrist who was the lead author of the study.
 ''It's certainly enough for us to be cautious as we are using it,'' Dr. Dodd said. ''We wouldn't want them to have some kind of financial ruin or difficulties that could be prevented.''
 Dr. Leo Verhagen, a Parkinson's specialist at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago who was not involved in the study, said he and some colleagues all had a few patients who had developed compulsive gambling while taking Mirapex, a drug that relieves tremors and stiffness. 
 The behavior usually disappears when the drug dose is lowered, Dr. Verhagen said. He praised the Mayo article for raising awareness for doctors and patients.
 Mr. Neglia, 54, now living in Millersville, Md., was not treated at Mayo or involved in the study. He said the problem was underreported ''because of the embarrassment factor,'' and he is one of several patients suing Boehringer-Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, maker of Mirapex, accusing the company of failing to adequately warn patients about the potential side effects. 
 Katherine King O'Connor, a spokeswoman for Boehringer-Ingelheim, said there was no scientific evidence suggesting that Mirapex caused the problem.
 The company revised Mirapex's package insert this year to include compulsive behavior among potential side effects after receiving rare reports -- all after the drug was approved for use in the United States in 1997, Ms. O'Connor said.
 Mirapex was among top-selling Parkinson's drugs last year, with more than $200 million in sales in the United States, according to IMS Health, a pharmaceutical information and consulting firm.
 The drug reduces tremors and the slow, stiff movements that are a hallmark of Parkinson's disease. It belongs to a class of drugs that mimic the effects of dopamine, a brain chemical that controls movement and is deficient in Parkinson's disease.
 The Mayo Clinic patients included a 68-year-old man who lost more than $200,000 at casinos over six months and a 41-year-old computer programmer who became ''consumed'' with Internet gambling, losing $5,000 within a few months. Dr. Dodd said Mayo doctors now ask patients using the drugs if they have suddenly taken up gambling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKINSONS DISEASE (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DRUG LABELING (76%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); WRITERS (69%); SALES FIGURES (61%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Parkinson's Disease; Dopamine; Mirapex (Drug); Labeling and Labels; Gambling; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Research; Containers and Packaging; Parkinson's Disease; Consumer Protection

COMPANY: BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH (53%); IMS HEALTH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (83%) Mayo Clinic; Archives of Neurology; Boehringer-Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



247 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: A Passage From India

BYLINE: By Suketu Mehta. 
Suketu Mehta is author of ''Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found.''

 BODY:
ACCORDING to a confidential memorandum, I.B.M. is cutting 13,000 jobs in the United States and in Europe and creating 14,000 jobs in India. From 2000 to 2015, an estimated three million American jobs will have been outsourced; one in 10 technology jobs will leave these shores by the end of this year. Stories like these have aroused a primal fear in the Western public: that they might soon need to line up outside the Indian Embassy for work visas and their children will have to learn Hindi. 
 Just as my parents had to line up outside the American consulate in Bombay, and my sisters and I had to learn English. My father came to America in 1977 not for its political freedoms or its way of life, but for the hope of a better economic future for his children. My grandfathers on both sides left rural Gujarat in northwestern India to find work: one to Calcutta, which was even more remote in those days than New York is from Bombay now; and the other to Nairobi. Mobility, we have always known, is survival. Now I face the possibility that my children, when they grow up, will find their jobs outsourced to the very country their grandfather left to pursue economic opportunity. 
 The outsourcing debate seems to have mutated into a contest between the country of my birth and the country of my nationality. Of course I feel a loyalty to America: it gave my parents a new life and my sons were born here. I have a vested interest in seeing America prosper. But I am here because the country of my ancestors didn't understand the changing world; it couldn't change its technology and its philosophy and its notions of social mobility fast enough to fight off the European colonists, who won not so much with the might of advanced weaponry as with the clear logical philosophy of the Enlightenment. Their systems of thinking conquered our own. So, since independence, Indians have had to learn; we have had to slog for long hours in the classroom while the children of other countries went out to play.
 When I moved to Queens, in New York City, at the age of 14, I found myself, for the first time in my life, considered good at math. In Bombay, math was my worst subject, and I regularly found my place near the bottom of the class rankings in that rigorous subject. But in my American school, so low were their standards that I was -- to my parents' disbelief -- near the top of the class. It was the same in English and, unexpectedly, in American history, for my school in Bombay included a detailed study of the American Revolution. My American school curriculum had, of course, almost nothing on the subcontinent's freedom struggle. I was mercilessly bullied during the 1979-80 hostage crisis, because my classmates couldn't tell the difference between Iran and India. If I were now to move with my family to India, my children -- who go to one of the best private schools in New York -- would have to take remedial math and science courses to get into a good school in Bombay.
 Of course, India's no wonderland. It might soon have the world's biggest middle class, but it also has the world's largest underclass. A quarter of its one billion people live below the poverty line, 40 percent are illiterate, and the child malnutrition rate exceeds that of sub-Saharan Africa. There's a huge difference between the backwater state of Bihar and the boomtown of Bangalore. Those Indians who went to the United States, though, have done remarkably well: Indians make up one of the richest ethnic groups in this country. During the technology boom of the late 1990's, Indians were responsible for 10 percent of all the start-ups in Silicon Valley. And in this year's national spelling bee, the top four contestants were of South Asian origin. 
 There is a perverse hypocrisy about the whole jobs debate, especially in Europe. The colonial powers invaded countries like India and China, pillaged them of their treasures and commodities and made sure their industries weren't allowed to develop, so they would stay impoverished and unable to compete. Then the imperialists complained when the destitute people of the former colonies came to their shores to clean their toilets and dig their sewers; they complained when later generations came to earn high wages as doctors and engineers; and now they're complaining when their jobs are being lost to children of the empire who are working harder than they are. My grandfather was once confronted by an elderly Englishman in a London park who asked, ''Why are you here?'' My grandfather responded, ''We are the creditors.'' We are here because you were there.
 The rich countries can't have it both ways. They can't provide huge subsidies for their agricultural conglomerates and complain when Indians who can't make a living on their farms then go to the cities and study computers and take away their jobs. Why are Indians willing to write code for a tenth of what Americans make for the same work? It's not by choice; it's because they're still struggling to stand on their feet after 200 years of colonial rule. The day will soon come when Indian companies will find that it's cheaper to hire computer programmers in Sri Lanka, and then it's there that the Indian jobs will go.
 Of course, it's heart-wrenching to see American programmers -- many of whom are of Indian origin -- lose their jobs and have to worry about how they'll pay the mortgage. But they are ill served by politicians who promise to bring their jobs back by the facile tactic of banning them from leaving. This strategy will ensure only that our schools stay terrible; it'll be an entire country run like the dairy industry, feasible only because of price controls and subsidies.
 But we have a resource of incalculable worth right here to help us compete: the immigrants who've been given a new life in America. There are many more Indians in the United States than there are Americans in India. Indian-Americans will help America understand India, trade with it to our mutual benefit. Just as Arab-Americans can help us fight Al Qaeda, Indian-Americans can help us deal with the emerging economic superpower that is India. This is the return of the gift of citizenship.
 And just in case, I'm making sure my children learn Hindi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); CURRICULA (75%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (70%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); RANKINGS (63%); HISTORY (60%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KOLKATA, INDIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



248 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Israel Seeks $2 Billion in U.S. Aid for Gaza Withdrawal

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 11 

 BODY:
Israel, which has traditionally been the largest recipient of American assistance, is seeking an additional $2 billion or more to help pay for its planned withdrawal of soldiers and Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip, Israeli officials said Monday.
 The aid would be used to move Israeli military bases to new locations in Israel from Gaza, and for economic development in two thinly populated regions of Israel, the Negev in the south and Galilee in the north, said a senior Israeli official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because negotiations were under way. 
 Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's ''disengagement plan'' is to begin in mid-August and calls for evacuating all of the nearly 9,000 settlers in Gaza and several hundred in the West Bank. The government is offering bonuses to settlers who agree to move to the Negev or Galilee regions. 
 Asked about the Israeli aid request, Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres told reporters, without citing figures, ''We have to develop the Negev and the Galilee, which are the only alternatives'' to Gaza and the West Bank.
 The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported Monday that Israel would seek $2.2 billion, though the Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity described it as a ballpark figure that needed to be negotiated.
 An Israeli delegation has already arrived in Washington and will meet with members of the National Security Council, the Israeli official said. The Israelis are looking for a package that would be spread over several years and would include grants and loan guarantees, the official said.
 Israeli officials have estimated the cost of the withdrawal, including moving and compensating the settlers, and operations carried out by the security forces, to be $1.7 billion.
 Under the government's compensation formula, many families are expected to receive $200,000 to $300,000, which is intended to replicate their standard of living in Gaza.
 For many years, Israel has received more American aid than any other nation. Last year, the United States gave Israel $2.3 billion in military aid and more than $500 million in economic assistance, the United States Embassy in Israel said.
 Combined American military and economic assistance to Israel has reached $100 billion since Israel was founded in 1948, the embassy said.
 The new Israeli request is in addition to this annual aid.
 The Palestinians have also received large sums of international aid in recent years, especially with their economic meltdown in the last five years of violence. They get roughly $1 billion a year, mostly for urgent needs like food and housing for families who lost homes. In 2004, the United States gave $251.5 million, the embassy said. 
 The Palestinians say they will need much more international aid to help develop the impoverished Gaza Strip after Israel withdraws.
 At the Group of 8 summit meeting of major industrialized nations last week in Scotland, the participants agreed in principle on the sum of $3 billion in each of the next three years for the Palestinians. It is not yet clear who will provide the money.
 James D. Wolfensohn, the former World Bank president, is working with the Palestinians to assemble the aid package and coordinate on economic development in Gaza. Mr. Wolfensohn is in the region and met Mr. Peres on Monday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (85%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEGEV CERAMICS LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (92%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



249 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: A Possible Bid for Westinghouse

BYLINE: By TODD ZAUN

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 11 

 BODY:
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries is considering buying Westinghouse Electric, the builder of nuclear power plants, from British Nuclear Fuels, as Mitsubishi strives to expand its reactor business outside Japan. 
 A purchase of Westinghouse, which analysts said would cost about 200 billion yen ($1.8 billion), would be one of the largest overseas acquisitions by a Japanese company in recent years. 
Mitsubishi Heavy is seeking partners to join any bid for Westinghouse, including other members of the Mitsubishi Group, like the trading giant Mitsubishi Corporation, according to Hideo Ikuno, a spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy. The Mitsubishi Group is a loosely affiliated conglomerate with interests in nearly every sector of the economy.
 Buying Westinghouse would offer Mitsubishi Heavy a way to expand sales of nuclear reactors overseas, possibly even in the United States where President Bush has supported the construction of nuclear power plants as a way to reduce dependence on foreign energy sources. 
 Mitsubishi Heavy's plan to purchase Westinghouse may also be a defensive strategy. Mitsubishi Heavy has had a technology licensing agreement for nuclear reactors with Westinghouse since the 1960's and is not eager to see the United States company fall into the hands of a competitor.
 ''If Westinghouse is going to be sold, we want to buy,'' Mr. Ikuno said. ''We think we have a very good chance'' of winning a bid.
 British Nuclear, which bought Westinghouse in 1999 for $1.1 billion, said that 15 companies were interest in buying Westinghouse. 
 Mitsubishi Heavy's interest in Westinghouse shows an emerging enthusiasm for acquisitions by Japanese companies. The value of mergers and acquisitions by Japanese companies more than doubled in the first half of this year to a five-year high of $109 billion, according to Thomson Financial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (95%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MERGERS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); MITSUBISHI CORP (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd; Westinghouse Electric Corp; British Nuclear Fuels Ltd

TICKER: 7011 (TSE) (90%); MBC (LSE) (85%); 8058 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (90%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (90%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (90%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: Todd Zaun

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



250 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Crystallizing Legacy Of Auschwitz Survivor

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Even the way he walks is a kind of remembering, a testament to being used like a pack animal and wearing shoes that maim. When the extraordinary Antony Sher steps onto the stage of the Music Box Theater in ''Primo,'' his crystalline adaptation of Primo Levi's memoir ''If This Is a Man,'' he moves with a stiffness and caution that speak of pain held at bay and long awareness of the danger of falling down.
 Wearing a professorial cardigan and spectacles, he looks in many ways like a garden-variety academic, plagued perhaps by arthritis or gout. But there's an uncommon intenseness about both the humility and the will power that seem to be involved in his simply keeping his balance. And as he continues to speak, leading his audience through the months he spent in a chamber of hell called Auschwitz, you come to realize that this man's posture is as much a legacy of that time as is the six-digit number tattooed on his arm.
 In ''Primo,'' a production of the National Theater of Great Britain that opened last night and runs only until Aug. 7, Sir Antony creates a portrait in which brutal memory penetrates the very marrow of one man's existence. Recollection has become a physiological reality that he wakes to every morning and that never leaves him in sleep. 
 The great accomplishment of Sir Antony, a South African-born actor best known for his work on the London stage (''Richard III,'' ''Stanley''), and his director, Richard Wilson, is that they have translated this act of remembering into an expressly theatrical language that never sensationalizes, never lectures and never begs for pity.
 ''If This Is a Man,'' better known in the United States under the title ''Survival in Auschwitz,'' is one of the essential books of the 20th century, an experiential account of a Nazi extermination camp rendered in exact and unsparing sensory detail. Levi, an Italian chemist who was 25 when he was deported to Auschwitz in 1944, wrote in 1947 (two years after his liberation) of his daily life in the camps with a transparent prose that approached the clinical.
 Implicit in this approach is the idea that his systematic dehumanization must be recorded as cleanly and objectively as possible, that interpretive shading would fall short of the improbable cruelty and monumental absurdity described. ''Today, at this very moment as I sit writing at the table, I myself am not convinced that these things really happened,'' Levi writes in ''If This Is a Man.''
 Capturing this stunned neutrality on stage would seem close to impossible. The theater, after all, demands, well, drama, a heightening of emotional response. And you can appreciate the reluctance of the estate of Levi, who died in an apparent suicide in 1987, to grant Sir Antony the stage rights.
 Sir Antony has said that the 1985 documentary film ''Shoah,'' with its latter-day interviews with concentration camp survivors, steered him in his adaptation. ''Primo'' is indeed presented as a retrospective narrative. Sir Antony wears civilian clothes, not the striped uniform of a work camp inmate. But as he talks, it is the clear that the past is always present.
 The bleak gray room of a set (designed by Hildegard Bechtler) helps to convey this notion. So does the lighting (by David Howe after Paul Pyant's original design), -- wherein shadows seem to lap at, consume and spit out Sir Antony's Levi. And so do sound effects (by Rich Walsh) and music (by Jonathan Goldstein), which summon weighted echoes of closing doors and bells of reveille.
 But the larger burden of blurring past and present is left to Sir Antony, and he shoulders it with beautiful precision. His pedantically high-pitched voice is at once hesitant and determined, especially at the show's beginning, as if both reluctant and compelled to proceed. There is the sense throughout of Levi's measuring his words and finding them inadequate.
 His body speaks its own language. Much of Levi's life in Auschwitz was spent on his feet -- standing in showers, in line-ups of naked men in the cold, walking long distances with heavy burdens. Sir Antony demonstrates the dragging shuffle that became Levi's stride, in part a consequence of the ill-fitting wooden-soled shoes he was made to wear. What's frightening is how naturally the walk still comes to him. Similarly, as he recalls standing naked for inspection or -- to use the play's most ominous word -- selection, he reflexively cups his hands over his genitals.
 There is a single chair on which Sir Antony sits for Levi's rare moments of relaxation in the camps, which came mostly when he was in the infirmary. And you sense the luxurious, primitive release of his being able merely to bend his knees. He makes it clear, though, that such moments exact a price, allowing him to remember when he was a free man and how far from that state of grace he has been pushed.
 For when Levi writes that ''to destroy a man is difficult,'' he is referring less to the killing of men than to stripping them of their sense of who and what they are. Early in the show, Sir Antony asks us to imagine being deprived of every personal possession, even a handkerchief.
 He takes a handkerchief out of his pocket and holds it up for inspection, a simple square of white cloth. ''Then you can fully understand the term extermination camp,'' he says. He then wipes his brow with that handkerchief. Though it is performed as a throwaway gesture, the double-edge image of that handkerchief's being available to him suddenly looms large.
 Sir Antony carefully husbands his display of emotion. At one point, he stretches out his arms, head backward, to evoke hunger beyond words, when ''you and hunger become the same thing.'' Full anger blazes only a few times, when wonder at the animalistic state to which Levis has been reduced flares into humiliating brightness.
 It could be argued that a couple of scenes -- especially those involving Levi's friendship with a fellow Italian, underscored by violin music -- are sentimental in ways that the book never is. And of course no 90 minutes of theater, no matter how fine, can approach the achievement of ''This Is a Man,'' in which an entire subculture of suffering is mapped out, right down to its sui generis systems of language and economics.
 But that is not to diminish the true grandeur of what Sir Antony accomplishes here. Grandeur may seem a strange word to describe the modesty, selflessness and accumulation of small, exact gestures that are the keynotes of Sir Antony's interpretation. But from the beginning to the end of ''Primo,'' grandeur is what fills the stage.

Primo

Based on ''If This Is a Man'' by Primo Levi; adapted by Antony Sher; directed by Richard Wilson; sets and costumes by Hildegard Bechtler; original lighting by Paul Pyant; lighting recreated by David Howe; sound by Rich Walsh; music composed by Jonathan Goldstein; technical supervisor, Larry Morley; production supervisor, Ernest Hall. Presented by Bill Kenwright and Thelma Holt and the National Theater of Great Britain. At the Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street; (212)239-6200. Through Aug. 7. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.

WITH: Antony Sher (Primo Levi).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Antony Sher portrays the author Primo Levi in a one-man play. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); LITERATURE (72%); BRITISH MONARCHS (71%); GOUT (71%); HOLOCAUST (68%); DEPORTATION (50%) Theater; Reviews; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: Royal National Theater (London)

PERSON: Ben Brantley; Richard Wilson; Primo (1919-87) Levi; Antony Sher

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



251 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES: SOUNDING OFF; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Forget Legroom. Our Backs Are Killing Us.

BYLINE: By Christopher Elliott. 
E-mail:elliottc@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SO just how uncomfortable is the average seat in economy class? Ask a business traveler like Richard Wong, who endures countless hours in steerage class, and it is clear that conditions in the back of the plane have never been worse. 
 ''Economy class is now an unbearably painful experience,'' said Mr. Wong, a government lawyer based in Washington. Among his complaints are inadequate legroom, stale cabin air and disappearing amenities like pillows and blankets. But at the top of his list -- and of the list of many others I've talked with -- is a complaint that has received virtually no attention. 
 The seat cushions are worn out. 
 Not just a little worn out, but literally coming apart at the seams. I saw it recently on an aging McDonnell Douglas MD-80 operated by Spirit Airlines. When I lowered the tray table, the cloth cover fell away to expose a metal seat frame. 
 (To be fair, I should mention that Spirit is upgrading to an all-Airbus fleet. The sooner, the better.)
 Airlines quietly slashed their aircraft-interior budgets after 9/11, said Azin Hatefi, the editor of Transport and VIP Interiors, a trade publication. ''I'm afraid it's a sad picture,'' he said. One major airline pared its seat spending from $30 million a year to $3 million in an effort to cut corners, he said.
 ''They will do whatever is necessary to pass muster with the Federal Aviation Administration,'' he added. ''But that is all.'' 
 Why haven't we read more about the squishy-seat scandal? Perhaps it is because the coverage of airline seats rarely gets past the legroom issue. This year, American Airlines made headlines when it phased out its popular but unprofitable ''More Room Throughout Coach'' program by cutting the legroom in economy class by two inches. Never mind that American still offers about one more inch of room than it did before it started spacing out the seats four years ago. 
 ''There are several components to seat comfort,'' said Susan Daimler, president for marketing for the seat-rating site SeatGuru.com. ''And it goes way beyond legroom. For example, if the airline doesn't update its seats, they become saggy. And then there's width, too. People are becoming bigger, and so they're really feeling the seat edges.'' 
 Cynthia L. Roth, the chief executive of the Ergonomic Technologies Corporation in New York, said it was difficult to overstate the decline of economy-class seats. Her company used to consult with carriers like American Airlines and United Airlines on improving seat design and comfort.
 ''On Sept. 10, 2001, we had $2.5 million in aerospace contracts,'' she said. ''After 9/11, it was zero.'' 
 Seats that would have been swapped out sooner are now being kept in service until they fall apart. On some tourist-class seats, the foam is so compressed that ''you are sitting on the frame,'' Ms. Roth said On longer flights, the resulting discomfort can last hours or even days after the flight ends. 
 ''If you sit on the economy-class seats, you know it,'' she said. ''Things have hit bottom.'' 
 The F.A.A. has safety standards for seats, but no comfort standards. That worries ergonomics experts like Peter Budnick, a consultant in Midway, Utah. 
 ''Economy seating is inadequate for the general population,'' Mr. Budnick said. ''For some passengers who are at risk for developing blood clots, flying in economy class could even be dangerous.'' 
 Airlines are quick to point out that their customer surveys suggest passengers care only about getting a cheap air fare (even when they're traveling for business). And while that may be true, it does not mean their customers also ask to be tortured on their next flight. 
 There are ways around the saggy, cramped seats. Ira Goldman, for example, has invented a device called the Knee Defender, which snaps on the tray table and prevents the passenger in front of you from leaning back.
 Scott W. Donkin, the author of ''Sitting on the Job: How to Survive the Stages of Sitting Down to Work'' (Basic Health Publications, 2004) says the short-term solution is to reinforce a worn-out economy class seat with something firm, like a folded-up jacket. 
 He says, however, that eventually either the F.A.A. or the airline industry should adopt minimum seat standards that address the seat cushion, width and legroom. (The Air Transport Association, a trade group for the airline industry, does not have any seat standards, either.) ''If the seats are left until they are threadbare, then you're in trouble,'' he said. 
 But maybe the fastest way to reverse the decline of economy class would be to ask the airline executives making these cuts to sit in the back of the plane with the rest of us, just once.


GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); BUDGETS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LAWYERS (56%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (83%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Aviation Administration

TICKER: SAVE (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



252 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Leader Wins 88% of Vote in Kyrgyzstan

BYLINE: By C.J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, July 11 

 BODY:
Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev, a former opposition leader who had become interim president of Kyrgyzstan, was declared Monday to be the winner of the presidential election by a landslide, capturing nearly 90 percent of the ballots cast.
 Mr. Bakiyev's overwhelming victory marked a consolidation of the revolution this spring that forced out the former president, Askar Akayev, and gave the interim president the mandate he sought to begin work on Kyrgyzstan's abundant problems. 
 With more than 99 percent of the votes counted in the six-way race, Mr. Bakiyev had 88.7 percent of the vote, the Kyrgyzstan election commission reported. His closest competitor received less than 4 percent. 
 ''It was a persuasive victory of our people,'' he said at a news conference. ''The trust that people displayed in us is high, and obliges us to do many things.''
 Mr. Bakiyev faces pressing concerns, both domestically and abroad.
 The most pressing is the fate of more than 400 Uzbek refugees who fled to Kyrgyz soil after surviving a bloody crackdown in May following a prison break and antigovernment demonstrations in Andijon, Uzbekistan. Uzbekistan has been pressing to have 131 of the refugees returned. Western governments and human rights organizations warn that would violate international conventions and endanger the refugees.
 As interim president, Mr. Bakiyev equivocated on the question of the refugees' fate. He is under intense pressure from Uzbekistan, upon which Kyrgyzstan depends in part for fuel and trade. 
 What is at stake, said Jerzy Skuratowicz, the United Nations resident coordinator here, is the reputation of the country in the opening moments of a new presidency. ''The way that Kyrgyzstan will deal with the refugees will basically be part of the image that will make the world understand whether Kyrgyzstan is one of the countries that will do what it says, and whether it is a country that will live within the rule of law,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bakiyev must also make a decision about a United States military base at the airport outside the capital. The base supports the Pentagon's operations in Afghanistan.
 Last week the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, an alliance of Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, demanded that the United States set a date for the withdrawal of its military from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
 Mr. Bakiyev also avoided providing a direct answer about this issue, indicating only that he supported the alliance's position and saying it was possible to discuss a timetable for withdrawal, suggesting a degree of flexibility. 
 Domestically, Mr. Bakiyev faces a slate of post-Soviet problems, including economic malaise, soaring unemployment, systemic corruption, near universal poverty and decaying infrastructure. Hundreds of thousands of Kyrgyz have left the country in search of work, and its population is becoming younger and in need of new jobs. 
 Still, Mr. Bakiyev said people would have patience as he began his five-year term, because they ''see that the problems emerged not yesterday and not three months ago.''
 His position is not enviable. As he seeks to invigorate the economy and attract investment, Mr. Bakiyev will work with a Parliament that came to office this spring in tainted elections, and in which people have little faith. Two-thirds of those surveyed in a pre-election poll of 1,000 citizens by InterMedia, a Washington-based research firm, said they wanted new parliamentary elections.
 Although election observers from local and international organizations noted that the conduct of the election on Sunday was an improvement over the parliamentary elections, it was not without considerable flaws.
 The observers said progress had been most evident in allowing free expression and assembly during the campaign, and in sharply reducing vote-buying, which had been widespread in parliamentary elections. But there were signs of vote-count manipulation and ballot stuffing.
 Kimmo Kiljunen of Finland, head of the observer delegation from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, said a particular concern was the trimming of voter lists. A presidential election is not valid unless 50 percent of registered voters cast ballots. The official turnout announced by the Central Election Commission was 74.7 percent, a figure so high that Mr. Kiljunen called it ''implausible.''
 Observers said election officials at polling places reduced the registration lists before and during election day in an effort to make it easier to reach the 50-percent threshold. Such conduct would raise questions about the integrity of the political culture that Mr. Bakiyev has inherited.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kurmanbek S. Bakiyev, who was installed as Kyrgyzstan's interim president in the spring, won a landslide election victory on Sunday. (Photo by Yoray Liberman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (66%); MILITARY BASES (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%) Elections; Election Results

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (93%) Kurmanbek S (Pres) Bakiyev; C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (52%) EAST CHINA (70%) KYRGYZSTAN (96%); UZBEKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Kyrgyzstan

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



253 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Poker's Popularity Doesn't Appear Ready to Fold 

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
Poker's sudden ubiquity on television calls to mind the rush of figure skating programming that followed the hugely rated 1994 Winter Olympics and the tulip mania in Holland in the 17th century. Can the popularity of anything grow so quickly, as televised poker has in the past two or three years, without crashing? 
 Or has poker found the mother lode by appealing to youthful Texas Hold'em devotees who cannot get enough of stars like Doyle Brunson and Howard Lederer.
''I equate poker to Nascar,'' said Neal Pilson, a television consultant hired by Harrah's Entertainment to negotiate a new deal beyond 2007 for its World Series of Poker property, which has performed spectacularly well on ESPN. ''Everyone drives, so they have an instant recognition for the skill and drama of Nascar. Well, there's a huge population that plays poker. It's reality programming, with drama, excitement and a tremendous amount of money.'' 
 If poker is headed for a collapse, then the market bubble appears to be in the distance. The World Series of Poker began play last month in Las Vegas, with taped coverage to start next Tuesday; CBS Sports joined many other networks by adding poker tournaments starting during Christmas; Brunson said he was part of a $700 million bid to buy the three-year-old World Poker Tour; and tomorrow night, Fox Sports Net will carry live the final table of a tournament in which the players will probably be wearing heart monitors to gauge whether their poker faces are hiding racing ventricles.
 ''We'll let you feel what they feel,'' said George Greenberg, FSN's vice president of programming and production, who cautioned that not all 27 players who will start at the final table of the FullTiltPoker.Net Championship at the Wynn Las Vegas have agreed to be wired. ''If they're bluffing, we'll know.''
 There is, for now, little bluffing that poker is a strong television product. The Travel Channel's telecasts of the World Poker Tour are by far the network's most popular offerings, nearly doubling the ratings of its second-most popular show, ''John Ratzenberger's Made in America.'' 
 But ESPN's 1.7 rating last year for the 22 episodes of the World Series of Poker was nearly twice that of the Travel Channel's, and up 42 percent from the year before, when it carried only seven installments.
 ''What started this poker phenomenon is the World Series on ESPN,'' said Mark Shapiro, an executive vice president of ESPN. ''It has no peers. I'm not saying it for spin. It's the only true brand that carries a considerable audience week after week.''
 Shapiro's claim to peerlessness was challenged by Steve Lipscomb, the founder and chief executive of WPT Enterprises, the parent company of the World Poker Tour, which he views as poker's version of the National Basketball Association.
 ''Our show is still the best televised poker,'' said Lipscomb, who just launched an offshore Internet poker site that will not accept wagering from the United States. ''We reinvented poker for television. ESPN is great at what they do; they use our format, put it on their air with the World Series and done extremely well.''
 ESPN would not disclose what it is paying to carry the World Series of Poker, but its fee is believed to be modest relative to the breakout television success. WPT, a public company, reported that it received $9.9 million from the Travel Channel for last year's second season of programming. Certainly, Harrah's will want more.
 ''The World Series of Poker was a dying brand before it came to ESPN,'' Shapiro said. ''We've spent considerable effort and dollars to rebuild the brand.''
 WPT also disclosed last week that it had not received enough information about the Brunson bid to evaluate whether it would go forward. According to its current stock-market price, shares in WPT are worth nearly $500 million.
 Poker's appeal to television networks is its hardiness. Live telecasts are rare; nearly all the shows are taped, which allows dull hands to be eliminated and drama to be accentuated. The tournaments often air months after they have been played -- broadcasts of the main event of the World Series do not start until Oct. 11, with poker that was completed Thursday. But the ratings hold up, a situation similar to the early years of what is now the former figure skating glut.
 ''They may be taped, but for all intents and purposes, it's live,'' Shapiro said. ''Aficionados aren't our core audience; it's the casual or amateur player.'' 
 The World Series is being covered by 18 cameras, with one person designated to spot a hot table.
 FSN, which also carries the taped Poker Superstars series (on a three-month delay) did well enough last year with its live telecast of the American Poker Championship to consider going live again with the FullTilt event. Greenberg said he believed that a group of superstars might reduce the possibility of boring hands.
 ''We're rolling the dice that over four or six or eight hours, drama will unfold,'' he said, ''with the stakes incredibly high and the players incredibly skilled.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Televised poker has found an audience, even if the action being broadcast is not live. Networks can edit out dull hands and focus on drama.
 The final table in the World Series of Poker begins Friday in Las Vegas. (Photographs by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POKER (95%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CARD GAMES (79%); WINTER OLYMPICS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); ICE SKATING (78%); NASCAR RACING (75%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%) Poker (Card Game); Television

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); ESPN INC (71%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Espn

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (71%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (57%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



254 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Profit Outlook Lifts Shares; Nasdaq Hits 6-Month High

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday, with the Nasdaq composite index jumping to a six-month high, as investors grew more optimistic about the coming earnings season and responded to a further drop in oil prices.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 70.58 points, or 0.68 percent, to end at 10,519.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 7.58 points, or 0.63 percent, to finish at 1,219.44. The Nasdaq climbed 22.55 points, or 1.07 percent, to close at 2,135.43. 
It was the third consecutive session that stocks rose, with the Nasdaq reaching its highest close since January and the S.&P. 500 at its highest level since March.
 Crude oil futures ended sharply lower. Storm worries eased after Hurricane Dennis made landfall without causing major disruption to production sites in the Gulf of Mexico. August crude futures fell 71 cents, or 1.2 percent, to settle at $58.92 a barrel in New York.
 An increase in deal activity also lifted stocks during the session. Agilent Technologies rose 5.5 percent, or $1.33, to $25.67 after The Wall Street Journal reported that a partnership of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Silver Lake Partners had emerged as the leading bidder for Agilent's semiconductor products business. 
 In other deals, the Dutch media group VNU agreed to buy the health care data provider IMS Health for $6.4 billion in cash and shares, sending IMS shares up 2.4 percent, or 61 cents, to $26.50.
 Technology stocks gained, including semiconductor shares. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index gained 2 percent. Intel, the world's largest chip maker, rose 1.5 percent, or 42 cents, to $27.70 while Applied Materials gained 3.2 percent, or 54 cents, to $17.20.
 Goldman Sachs lifted its investment rating on the chip maker Maxim Integrated Products to ''outperform'' from ''in line,'' helping the company's shares rise 4.2 percent, or $1.65, to $41.28.
 Internet stocks were particularly strong. Yahoo was helped by a positive research note from Merrill Lynch, which said it believed that Yahoo's earnings could meet its analyst's expectations. Yahoo rose $1.14, or 3.3 percent, to close at $35.76. Among other rising Internet stocks were the online auction site eBay, up 3 percent, or $1.05, at $35.55.
 Declining stocks included the film studio DreamWorks Animation, which dropped 13.2 percent, or $3.54, to $23.27 after it warned that it planned to post a second-quarter loss and said that federal regulators had begun an informal inquiry into its securities.
 Trading was moderate, with 1.41 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, just below the 1.46 billion daily average for last year. About 1.77 billion shares were traded on Nasdaq, below the 1.81 billion daily average last year.
 Advancing issues outnumbered those declining on the New York Stock Exchange by about 12 to 5 and on Nasdaq by about 7 to 3. 
 Treasury debt prices inched downward yesterday as the gains in stocks reinforced fears that a three-month rally in bonds may have run its course. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1/32, to 1008/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was unchanged at 4.09 percent.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.207	98.303	High Rate	3.135	3.355	Investment Rate	3.204	3.460	Low Rate	3.100	3.320	Median Rate	3.130	3.345	Total applied for	$50,381,685	$41,092,243	Accepted	$24,321,265	$21,013,887	Noncompetitive	$1,721,021	$1,383,350	

Both issues are dated July 14, 2005. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 13, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 12, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); FUTURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MICROPROCESSORS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); AUCTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); HURRICANES (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); PUBLIC DEBT (62%); ANIMATION (60%); ANIMATED FILMS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES INC (82%); EBAY INC (80%); KKR & CO LP (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); SILVER LAKE PARTNERS LTD (55%); IMS HEALTH INC (54%); INTEL CORP (54%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (54%); MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS INC (53%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: A (NYSE) (82%); EBAY (NASDAQ) (80%); KKR (NYSE) (68%); GS (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MXIM (NASDAQ) (53%); DWA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (82%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (80%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (80%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%) GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



255 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; The Oil Uproar That Isn't; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2711 words

HEADLINE: Prices Cause Concern, but Little Change in Behavior or Laws

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
When oil prices spiked in the early 1980's after the Iranian revolution, Jared Nedzel gave up his 1978 Pontiac Trans Am, an emblematic American muscle car, for a smaller, less extravagant Toyota Corolla. He was on his way to Cornell University to study civil engineering and he needed a more economical car.
 Today, Mr. Nedzel, a 44-year-old software developer who lives near Boston, owns a Toyota 4Runner, a sport utility vehicle he bought two years ago. It gets about 17.5 miles per gallon, as much as the Trans Am did, and he uses it for his 45-minute commute to work and for driving near the beaches of Martha's Vineyard to get to his favorite fishing spots.
Gasoline prices have spiked again, to more than $2.25 for a gallon of regular in Boston last week, just above the national average, according to the AAA. But energy costs do not weigh on Mr. Nedzel's mind. ''Just another gas crisis,'' he said, expressing an opinion held by many others. ''I'm not hyperventilating about it.'' 
 For Americans, oil shocks no longer seem so shocking.
 The Arab oil embargo of 1973 and the Iranian revolution in 1978-79 exposed America's vulnerability to powerful forces outside its control, forces that sent fuel prices to record levels, prompted anger over gas lines and led to bookend recessions that defined a decade of economic turmoil.
 By 1980, the energy crisis and the inflation it spawned had left Americans in a vindictive mood, contributing to the re-election defeat of President Jimmy Carter, who had promised to wage the ''moral equivalent of war'' against dependence on foreign oil.
 But the latest escalation in oil prices -- to as much as $60 today from less than $30 a barrel a little more than two years ago -- has produced a much more limited response. Energy legislation that President Bush is pressing Congress to pass this summer would bring little relief. And while Americans say in polls that they are deeply disturbed by high gasoline prices and looking for someone to blame, most people continue to drive just as avidly as before; purchases of gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles have slowed but there has been no significant shift to more fuel-efficient cars.
 Furthermore, gasoline consumption has continued to rise, up 1 percent in May compared with the same month last year.
 James R. Schlesinger, whom President Carter selected as the first energy secretary, in 1977, said in a recent interview that the country's basic energy approach can best be summed up this way: ''We have only two modes -- complacency and panic.''
 The earlier oil shocks produced remarkable changes, including the rise of the Japanese auto industry as Americans turned to smaller, more efficient cars out of choice and necessity. With carrots and sticks, the United States managed to cut, temporarily, energy use per person and to scale back the share of oil in its overall energy mix.
 The federal government established a strategic petroleum reserve as an insurance policy against global supply disruptions, set a national 55 m.p.h. speed limit and spent billions -- much of it wasted, however, on alternatives like shale oil that proved far too costly, particularly after crude oil prices fell when economic recession tempered the demand for energy. 
 But this time around, the government has done almost nothing to reduce the nation's vulnerability to a sudden interruption in oil supplies. Even the advocates for the long-stalled energy bill that has finally passed both houses of Congress -- though in radically different forms -- acknowledge that neither version of the measure will be effective.
 This month, the House and the Senate will attempt to hammer out their differences and produce the first piece of energy legislation in four years, one that President Bush hopes to sign as early as August. 
 Crude oil imports have doubled over the last three decades, and now account for nearly two-thirds of the oil Americans burn. Before the 1973 oil embargo, imports accounted for only about one-third of America's energy consumption. In the same three-decade period, oil demand in the United States has grown by 18 percent while domestic production has continued on a slow and probably irrevocable path of decline.
 The problem is not the latest price rise, which, adjusted for inflation, is still well below the peak in early 1981, when oil cost the equivalent of $86 a barrel in today's dollars; gasoline, released from price controls, briefly sold back then for the equivalent of $3 a gallon. And it is not just imports; even if the country produced enough oil to meet its domestic needs, in a global economy a price shock would still be felt in the United States.
 The fundamental problem, experts say, is that Americans depend almost exclusively on relatively large and heavy private vehicles, virtually all of them running on gasoline, for crucial daily tasks like getting to work and taking their children to school. ''Americans live in a car-driven culture where they want to do as much as possible as fast as possible,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, the associate director of Rice University's energy program in Houston. ''I can drop off my dry cleaning, pick up my prescription drugs, do my banking and buy my lunch, all without leaving my car.''
 Because of this high dependence on private cars, the United States continues to use oil considerably less efficiently than any other rich industrial country. Yet most of the proposed policy remedies are meant only to subsidize the production of oil, not use less of it. Many of the rest are focused on electricity, little of it produced by oil. 
 Despite the lessons of the past, the United States remains particularly vulnerable to a decision by a crucial supplier -- for example, the anti-American government of Venezuela --to cut its oil exports, as Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations did in 1973.
 Even more critically, Americans can no longer count on abundant supplies of cheap fossil fuels, because developing nations like China and India are emerging as major competitors for resources. This is occurring just as global oil production may be hitting a plateau, a growing number of specialists say. Worldwide output, now about 80 million barrels a day, may fall short of the 100 million barrels a day that energy officials are counting on reaching within the next decade, they say.
 Oil prices fell after previous shocks because recessions reduced demand. This time around, galloping consumption has left many authorities believing that the world may face a long period of high prices and tight supplies.
 So who is responsible for the current situation? The evidence shows that consumers, oil suppliers, lobbyists and politicians all have played roles.
 ''A message of the late 1970's is we must prepare for the day of reckoning, the transition away from oil,'' said Mr. Schlesinger, who also served under President Richard M. Nixon as defense secretary and director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
 But it did not happen then, he said, and ''I doubt we're going to do it now.''

THE CONSUMERS
What Has 4 Wheels And Guzzles Gasoline?
 The failure to control consumption is most glaring in the country's transportation sector, which now represents two-thirds of all oil demand in the United States and is solely accountable for the growth of the nation's oil thirst over the last three decades. Each day, America's fleet of more than 200 million cars guzzles 11 percent of the world's daily oil output. Gasoline consumption has risen 35 percent since 1973, compared with a 19 percent increase in overall crude oil consumption.
 The growth comes mainly from light trucks, including sport utility vehicles, which account for almost half of all cars sold in the United States. For many consumers, the advantages of an S.U.V. -- size, power and an increased sense of security from driving a taller vehicle -- largely overshadow one of their main drawbacks, higher fuel consumption.
 ''Don't blame S.U.V. drivers,'' said Mr. Nedzel, the 4Runner owner. ''The marketplace has changed since the 1970's, and carmakers have adapted and people's habits have changed. For me, there isn't a hybrid that would get me where I want to go.''
 And while he says he would be willing to tolerate higher gasoline taxes, Mr. Nedzel opposes more stringent fuel efficiency standards. ''That's like having an obesity problem,'' he said, ''and being told you need a smaller shirt.''

THE INDUSTRY
Supply and Demand Isn't What It Used to Be
 On a warm, sunny day in February, David J. O'Reilly, one of America's top oil executives, stood before 200 energy leaders, analysts and bankers in Houston to lay out what he considered the world's new energy quandary.
 ''The most visible element of this new equation,'' said Mr. O'Reilly, the chief executive of Chevron, ''is that relative to demand, oil is no longer in plentiful supply. The time when we could count on cheap oil and even cheaper natural gas is clearly ending.''
 That's a challenge the oil industry is struggling to meet. Major oil companies are fast running out of places to invest for new supplies of oil since most of the world's reserves are in countries that are either wary of foreign investors or, because of war or sanctions, shut off to American oil concerns.
 At the same time, the oil industry is waking up to the growing challenge of Asian rivals who are seeking to secure access to their own reserves around the world. Mr. O'Reilly experienced this aggressive new stance first-hand recently: the China National Offshore Oil Corporation is seeking to buy Unocal with an unsolicited $18.5 billion bid and thwart his own offer.
 ''The main question is access to resources,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an industry consulting firm. ''It's the dominant issue that hangs over the entire industry, whether you're talking about Russia, the Middle East, or off the shores of the United States.''
 In contrast to previous oil shocks, which were caused by unexpected limitations on supply, today's sharp rise in oil prices is almost entirely driven by increased demand, not just from the United States but also from China, India and elsewhere.
 According to Mr. O'Reilly, it took 125 years to consume a trillion barrels of oil; the next trillion is likely to be consumed in just 35 years.
 To many in the industry, the only realistic alternative is to expand the search for oil, even to areas that are currently closed to drilling, including the ocean off the coasts of California and Florida and the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Preserve in Alaska.
 ''We're a spoiled nation,'' said James T. Hackett, the president and chief executive of the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation and a vocal advocate for increased domestic production. ''Because this is such an important national issue, you shouldn't allow yourself to get into a crisis before acting.'' 
 But many outside the industry say that intensive exploration of the United States over more than a century has found almost all the oil there is to find, so reversing the decline in domestic production through new discoveries will prove impossible. There is also some doubt about whether oil producers can increase world output enough to keep up with the expected growth in demand.
 ''Oil supplies will diminish, that's geology,'' said Kenneth S. Deffeyes, a professor emeritus of geology at Princeton University and the author of ''Beyond Oil: The View From Hubbert's Peak'' (Hill & Wang, 2005). Professor Deffeyes predicts that global oil production will reach its peak around Thanksgiving Day and decline after that. ''The negligence comes from doing nothing about alternative fuels or conservation measures over the past 20 years. Now it is too late. The oil is gone.'' 
 After previous disruptions, as when the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries took control of their oil resources from foreign oil companies like Chevron in the late 1960's and early 1970's, those companies managed to rebound when high oil prices let them develop high-cost regions like the north slope of Alaska and the North Sea. But the price collapse of the 1980's led to nearly two decades of oil oversupply that discouraged additional investments. 
 In recent years, oil executives say they have made discoveries in Angola, Nigeria, Libya, Kazakhstan and Algeria, to name a few countries. The industry hope is that increased exploration and more intensive efforts at existing oil fields will enable producers to expand output enough to keep up demand, preventing prices from soaring and sustaining economic growth around the world.
 ''There's still plenty of room to play here,'' Mr. O'Reilly said in an interview in Houston after his speech. ''In the last decade, there's been more opening than closing. The pendulum swings in this business.''

THE POLITICS
Ambitious Proposals Stuck in the Beltway
 When Bill Clinton was campaigning in New Hampshire in early 1992, the cost of oil was very much on voters' minds. The economy was weak and the third energy scare of the late 20th century -- Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, which shut down nearly 3.4 million barrels a day of crude oil output for nearly a year -- was still a powerful memory. The last of the Kuwaiti wells set aflame by the retreating Iraqis had been put out only a few months earlier.
 But by the time President Clinton took office in January 1993, the price of crude oil was much lower and falling.
 Passing an energy bill was not on the administration's agenda, but putting one into practice was. Congress had approved an ambitious law in 1992 intended to promote alternatives to gasoline. The goal was for 10 percent of the vehicle fleet to be capable of running on something else by 2000; by 2010 it was supposed to be 30 percent.
 Today, the number is still under 1 percent.
 ''We did the best we could under the circumstances,'' Mr. Clinton said in a recent interview, ''but there was minimal interest, the economy was growing like crazy, there was no inflation and oil was cheap.''
 By 1994, the price of crude oil bottomed out at less than $16 a barrel, making it impossible to save money by switching to something else. Low gasoline prices, combined with a rapidly improving economy, brought an explosion in the number of vehicles, to nearly one per driver. Many more of the new vehicles were S.U.V.'s, pickup trucks and minivans, all gulping fuel.
 As part of his deficit-reduction program, Mr. Clinton managed to push through an increase in the federal excise tax on gasoline to 18.4 cents a gallon, from 14.1 cents. But he had to abandon a much more ambitious proposal to raise energy taxes across the board as part of an effort to limit global warming and control pollution from fossil fuels.
 ''I hadn't run on it, and hadn't made any kind of foundation to do anything on it,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''It was sprung on Congress,'' he added, sounding regretful.
 Despite the retreat on energy taxes, the vote on the budget bill was still so close in the Senate that Vice President Al Gore had to cast the deciding vote. There was never any chance of achieving anything close to the taxes levied in Europe, where consumers pay up to $5 a gallon for gasoline, mostly due to taxes.
 ''In Europe, people are less dependent on cars, they use smaller cars, and a gas tax wasn't as controversial as it would be here,'' Mr. Clinton said.
 The atmosphere for cutting oil consumption might be better now, he said, than it was during his tenure. ''There is a lot greater awareness, even though we're moving away from 9/11, of our vulnerability,'' he said. ''We've got to get a vehicle fleet that doesn't depend on oil as much.''
 But given political constraints, which block any serious effort at fuel efficiency or raising energy taxes, the government is stymied, according to Philip R. Sharp, a veteran of Washington's energy wars and an Indiana Democrat who served in Congress from 1975 to 1995.
 ''We cannot in any rapid fashion or cheap fashion have a radical impact,'' said Mr. Sharp, who drafted large parts of the 1992 energy bill that sought to wean the nation away from gasoline. ''It is very hard for public policy makers to grasp how large this marketplace is. It's gigantic.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jared Nedzel is committed to his Toyota 4Runner sport utility vehicle. ''The marketplace has changed since the 1970's, and carmakers have adapted and people's habits have changed. For me, there isn't a hybrid that would get me where I want to go.'' (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. C7)
Long gas lines were common after the 1970's oil embargoes, and so were political pledges to reduce reliance on foreign oil. But a greater share of America's oil supply is imported today than 30 years ago. (Photos by Top, Marty Lederhandler/Associated Press
center, Doug Wilson/Corbis
 above, Associated Press)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Growing Dependence''Sources of United States oil consumption.Graph tacks imports and domestic oil sources from 1974-2004.(Source by Energy Information Adminstration)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Sensitive Commodity''America's economy is acutely sensitive to conditions affecting the world's oil supply. While many sectors have reduced their use of oil, consumption in the transportation sector, including trucks, cars and S.U.V.'s, has risen unabated, accounting for the entire increase in the nation's dependence.1973 ARAB OIL EMBARGOImposed by members of OPEC who were angry about United States support for Israel. The embargo was lifted after six months, but prices stayed high as imports grew in importance.1978 IRANIAN REVOLUTIONThe fall of the shah and the subsequent outbreak of war between Iran and Iraq led to a drop in OPEC oil production by seven million barrels a day. To compensate, the United States and other industrialized countries increased their exploration and conservation efforts.1981 GAS PRICES PEAKThe government removed price and allocation controls. Initially prices rose, but that further stimulated conservation, soon causing demand, and prices, to decline.1990 PERSIAN GULF CRISISIraq's invasion of Kuwait and the oil embargo imposed by the United Nations on exports from both countries caused world oil prices to spike. Two months later, prices fell sharply on expectations that Saddam Hussein would be defeated.1998 ASIAN ECONOMIC CRISISThe collapse of several Asian currencies put a temporary halt to the rapid growth of the region's economies, slowing their rising demand for oil. Oil prices fell in the aftermath.SEPT. 11, 2001The terrorist attacks, by creating a fear of recession, pushed oil prices down, but they soon recovered as growth picked up.MARCH 2003 IRAQ WARThe second war with Iraq touched off jitters among surrounding Arab countries and in world markets.Graph tracks the gasoline price per gallon (2005 dollars) and gas (not adjusted for inflation) through the terms of office for the following presidents:NIXONFORDCARTERREAGANBUSHCLINTONBUSHOil consumption by sector1974Transportation: 52.0%Industrial: 26.0Electric power: 10.1Residential: 7.7Commercial: 4.3Total: 33.5 quadrillion B.T.U.'s1984Transportation: 61.9%Industrial: 25.8Electric power: 4.1Residential: 4.3Commercial: 3.9Total: 31.1 quadrillion B.T.U.'s1994Transportation: 65.6%Industrial: 25.4Electric power: 3.1Residential: 3.9Commercial: 2.2Total: 34.7 quadrillion B.T.U.'s2004Transportation: 66.6%Industrial: 24.4Electric power: 3.0Residential: 4.0Commercial: 2.0Total: 40.1 quadrillion B.T.U.'s(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); CONSUMPTION (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (56%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (51%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Jad Mouawad; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); GULF STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



256 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Rice, in Southeast Asia, Draws Fire for Plan to Avoid Forum

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: BAN BANG SAK, Thailand, July 11 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice traveled here on Monday to visit a village ravaged by the tsunami nearly seven months ago, saying she wanted to show that the United States ''cares about Southeast Asia.''
 But she flew as well into a storm of criticism of her decision not to attend the annual Association of Southeast Asian Nations convention late this month. If, as seems likely, her decision stands, she will be the first secretary of state in more than 20 years not to attend, and some of the region's leaders are upset by her choice to skip the meeting and send Robert B. Zoellick, the deputy secretary of state. 
 ''Lots of people were offended by this decision,'' said a senior Asian diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue. ''We all have respect for Mr. Zoellick, but it is a statement of her priorities.'' 
 ''It's regrettable,'' said Syed Hamid Albar, the Malaysian foreign minister, quoted by Kyodo, the Japanese news agency. ''I hope it is not an indication that the U.S. is giving less importance or showing less interest in Asean while focusing on the Middle East.'' 
 Realizing the problems her decision had caused, Ms. Rice planned this quick visit to Thailand -- a five- hour flight south from China on Sunday, and then a seven-hour flight back north to Tokyo on Monday --during a trip to North Asia to discuss the North Korean nuclear program and other issues. 
 At a news conference in Phuket with the Thai foreign minister on Monday morning, she defended her decision, saying: ''I am very sorry not to be going to the Asean summit this year. We have other vital travel in roughly the same time period.''
 Ms. Rice plans to visit Africa in the week before the Asean meeting but is tentatively scheduled to return a day or two before Mr. Zoellick is set to leave for the meeting, though an aide said the plans remain fluid.
 The Thai foreign minister, Kantathi Suphamongkhon, pressed Ms. Rice in their private meeting to explain why she would not attend, Thai and American officials said. 
 Some diplomats have speculated that she declined to attend the meeting, in Laos, because Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, is to take over the chairmanship of Asean for the next year. The United States is highly critical of Myanmar's military government. Asked about that during the news conference, Ms. Rice did not respond directly.
 The United States has criticized Myanmar for years for its repression of political dissidents, ''and there never seems to be any progress,'' Ms. Rice said. ''I asked our Thai friends who have relations with Burma and dialogue with Burma to continue to press the cases of those who are held, including Aung San Suu Kyi,'' the dissident leader.
 From Phuket, Ms Rice flew here in a Thai military helicopter and drove to a school destroyed in the tsunami on Dec. 26. It is being rebuilt, this time on high ground, with help from the United States, including several students from the University of Iowa. 
 Ms. Rice's visit lasted 41 minutes, and her driver kept the engine running. Local officials reported to her on the progress of construction. The old school housed about 180 children. The new one, a large complex of dormitories and buildings, will house 1,000 children, including 300 tsunami orphans, said Barbara Franklin, a former president of the school's parent-teacher association. 
 About 50 elementary students in uniforms sang for Ms. Rice, trying mightily to pronounce the letters as they offered a chorus of ''Now I know my ABC's.'' Ms. Rice asked them to repeat it so she could sing along, and they did. Sitting across the table from her was a boy who had lost seven relatives in the tsunami. At least 5,400 people in Thailand were killed in the catastrophe, 1,500 of them from this southern province.
 ''You may never know how much your presence here helps the morale of small kids, orphans,'' said Deputy Prime Minister Surakiart Sathirathai, who accompanied her here. 
 As Ms. Rice left, a Thai reporter asked, ''Why aren't you going to Asean?'' The deputy prime minister said, ''Tsunami questions only!'' 
 But Ms. Rice repeated her explanation, then said, ''I am here to show that I care about Southeast Asia.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TSUNAMIS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%) United States International Relations; Earthquakes; Tsunamis and Tidal Waves

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (84%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (79%) Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Robert B (Deputy Sec) Zoellick; Joel Brinkley

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (98%); ASIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); MYANMAR (95%); THAILAND (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Thailand; Ban Bang Sak (Thailand) ; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



257 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: In Hawaii, a Chance to Heal, Long Delayed

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
Less than a month after 9/11, with terrorism fears threatening to put jet travel and thus the Hawaiian economy into a death spiral, tourism officials there announced an emergency marketing campaign to promote the state as a place of rest, solace and healing. Anyone who has ever stepped off a plane in Honolulu, trading the brittle staleness of the aircraft cabin for the liquid Hawaiian breeze, warm and heavy with the scent of flowers, knows exactly what they meant.
 The selling of Hawaii as a land of gracious welcome works so well because it happens to be true. But for the members of one group, that has always evoked a bitter taste: native Hawaiians, the descendants of Polynesian voyagers who settled the islands in antiquity and lived there in isolation until the late 1700's. Ever since Captain Cook, the native Hawaiian story has been a litany of loss: loss of land and of a way of life, of population through sickness and disease, and of self-determination when United States marines toppled the monarchy in 1893. 
 Over decades, the islands emerged as a vibrant multiracial society and the proud 50th state. Hawaiian culture -- language and art, religion and music -- has undergone a profound rebirth since the 1970's. But underneath this modern history remains a deep sense of dispossession among native Hawaiians, who make up about 20 percent of the population.
 Into the void has stepped Senator Daniel Akaka, the first native Hawaiian in Congress, who is the lead sponsor of a bill to extend federal recognition to native Hawaiians, giving them the rights of self-government as indigenous people that only American Indians and native Alaskans now enjoy. The Akaka bill has the support of Hawaii's Congressional delegation, the State Legislature and even its Republican governor, Linda Lingle. It will go before the Senate for a vote as soon as next week.
 The bill would allow native Hawaiians -- defined, in part, as anyone with indigenous ancestors living in the islands before the kingdom fell -- to elect a governing body that would negotiate with the federal government over land and other natural resources and assets. There is a lot of money and property at stake, including nearly two million acres of ''ceded lands,'' once owned by the monarchy; hundreds of thousands of acres set aside long ago for Hawaiian homesteaders; and hundreds of millions of dollars in entitlement programs. 
 Much of what is now the responsibility of two state agencies, the Office of Hawaiian Affairs and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, would become the purview of the new government.
 There are many jurisdictional and procedural details to work out, but Mr. Akaka and others insist that the bill precludes radical outcomes. 
 There would be no cash reparations, no new entitlements, no land grabs and especially no Indian-style casinos, which are a hot topic in Hawaii, one of only two states that outlaw all gambling. 
 The bill's critics include those who see it as a race-based scheme to balkanize a racial paradise. On the other flank, radical Hawaiian groups say the bill undercuts their real dream: to take the 50th star off the flag and to create a government that does its negotiating with the State Department, not Interior.
 Mr. Akaka argues, convincingly, that beyond the bill's practical benefits in streamlining the management of assets and the flow of money, it is a crucial step in a long, slow process of reconciliation. As he sees it, Hawaii's cultural renaissance has exposed the unhealed wound in the native psyche. He has witnessed it in young people, more radical than their elders, as they adopt a tone of uncharacteristic hostility and resentment in sovereignty marches. He has noted a wariness that is at odds with the conciliatory mood struck in 1993, when President Bill Clinton signed a resolution apologizing for the kingdom's overthrow. 
 Mr. Akaka says his bill offers vital encouragement to a group that makes up a disproportionate share of the islands' poor, sick, homeless and imprisoned, while steering a moderate course between extremes of agitation and apathy.
 The spirit of aloha, of gentle welcome, is the direct legacy of native culture and an incalculable gift the Hawaiian people have made to everyone who has ever traveled there -- wobbly-legged sailors and missionaries, dogged immigrants and sun-scorched tourists. The Akaka bill, with its first steps at long-deferred Hawaiian self-determination, seems like an obvious thing to give in return, an overdue measure of simple gratitude. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); HISTORY (71%); LEGISLATION (69%) Law and Legislation; History

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (55%)

PERSON: DANIEL AKAKA (79%); LINDA LINGLE (58%) Daniel K (Sen) Akaka

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Hawaii; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005



258 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Ameritrade Posts 20% Increase in Earnings

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: OMAHA, July 12 

 BODY:
The Ameritrade Holding Corporation, the online brokerage firm that recently agreed to buy TD Waterhouse USA, said Tuesday that its third-quarter earnings rose 20 percent from a year earlier, meeting Wall Street expectations. 
 Net income rose to $74.7 million, or 18 cents a share, from $62.3 million, or 15 cents a share, a year earlier. 
Revenue in the period, which ended June 24, rose to $234.4 million from $220 million.
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a profit of 18 cents a share on revenue of $227.1 million. 
 Ameritrade not only kept costs down, it benefited as the Federal Reserve raised interest rates, allowing the company to adjust its own rates, the chief executive, Joseph H. Moglia, said in an interview. 
 ''For example, we can charge more on margin loans,'' he said. ''We have $3.5 billion worth of margin loans.'' 
 Ameritrade, which is based in Omaha, said it expected to earn 75 cents to 80 cents a share for fiscal 2005, in line with analysts' consensus estimate of 76 cents a share. 
 Third-quarter earnings rose despite a decline of 15.2 percent in average daily trade volume. 
 Ameritrade signed a deal on June 22 to acquire TD Waterhouse USA from the TD Bank Financial Group for about $3 billion. 
 Ameritrade has shown that it can acquire competitors without losing their customers, as when it bought Datek, said Bill Doyle, an analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. 
 The purchase of TD Waterhouse should also work in Ameritrade's favor, Mr. Doyle said. 
 Mr. Moglia added: ''We think we can generate at least $200 million in incremental revenue just by having a strategic relationship with their bank.''
 ''We also think we can cut $378 million in costs,'' he said, ''by eliminating redundancies in both organizations.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (54%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (67%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Ameritrade Holding Corp

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (93%); TD (TSX) (67%); TD (NYSE) (67%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



259 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Doing Deals While Wary of Bubbles

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
It was only last year that the Bank of America Center, long the dominant building in San Francisco's financial district, was sold to a group of New York investors for an impressive $825 million. Now the 52-story reddish-brown granite tower is said to be going on the market again. This time, the sellers are hoping that the price will reach as high as $1.25 billion.
 In recent weeks, the feverish residential market has spurred incessant talk about the prospect of a housing bubble. But prices for commercial real estate have also been going through the roof, despite high office vacancy rates and lackluster job growth. 
 So is commercial real estate enveloped in a bubble of its own? Will there be a return to the early 1990's, when huge fortunes were lost as many landlords were forced to turn over the keys to their buildings to their lenders?
 For several years, prices for office buildings, even in cities where vacancies remained high, have continued to rise steadily. From January through June, over $40.7 billion worth of office properties valued at $5 million or more changed hands, up 42 percent from 2004, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research company. The average deal size increased 18 percent, to $37.6 million, the company said. The year's biggest deal was also a record: the $1.7 billion sale of the MetLife Building at 200 Park Avenue in Manhattan to Tishman Speyer Properties.
 Some sophisticated investors are sending strong signals that prices cannot rise much higher. Among the big sellers that have been shedding billions of dollars worth of office and retail property in recent months have been Calpers, the nation's largest pension fund; Equity Office Properties, the giant real estate investment trust; and many private landlords like the Shorenstein family of San Francisco. 
 To Jim Titus, the managing director of Realpoint, the research arm of GMAC Institutional Advisors, today's prices are reminiscent of the late 1980's, when Japanese investors overpaid for trophy buildings and went on to suffer huge losses. ''I sort of see a similar situation potentially brewing,'' Mr. Titus said. 
 Commercial real estate is awash with capital, and many buyers are accepting initial returns of 5 percent or even less because they have few investment alternatives. Once interest rates rise and investors can buy 10-year Treasury bills with a 5 percent yield, real estate will seem less attractive, Mr. Titus said. ''That can have a real impact on valuations in the marketplace.'' 
 Lloyd Lynford, the president of Reis Inc., a New York research firm, agreed that some buyers are overpaying on the assumption that empty space will fill up and rental income will improve. But the leasing market has been highly volatile in recent years, reflecting the zigzag pattern of job growth, Mr. Lynford said.
 Nationally, the average office vacancy rate dropped half a percentage point from the first quarter this year to the end of June, from 15.9 percent to 15.4 percent, but in many cases, Mr. Lynford said, ''the cash flow has been deteriorating,'' because rents are not improving. 
 Ratings agencies, which evaluate loans that have been resold as securities, have also been warning that lenders are competing so fiercely to win new business that many are taking bigger risks. 
 The volume of outstanding commercial mortgages has been growing and the total is now equivalent to 14.4 percent of gross domestic product, a level not seen since the days before the real estate crash of the early 1990's, according to Moody's Investors Service. As with residential real estate, the proportion of interest-only loans has risen sharply. 
 But other real estate specialists say there is no cause for alarm, especially if interest rates rise only gradually. Some say that the rich prices that office buildings are commanding still fall below the cost of replacing them.
 On Friday, the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation said it had agreed to pay $240 million for EAB Plaza, an office complex in Uniondale, N.Y., on Long Island. As recently as September 2003, EAB Plaza traded for $200 million, but Reckson said its purchase price still represented a 20 percent discount over the replacement cost.
 Others find comfort in the slowing of the development pipeline in most markets. One exception is Dallas, where a building binge is under way near downtown, even though the city's office vacancy rate is 24.6 percent, Mr. Lynford said.
 Also cautioning against talk of a bubble is Green Street Advisors, a research company that specializes in REIT's. Green Street calculates that the value of property owned by real estate investment trusts has risen 27 percent since 2000, while home prices have shot up 51 percent. This suggests, the company said in a recent report, that ''homes have a much worse case of bubblitis than commercial real estate.''
 Others draw a sharp distinction between the real estate market of 15 years ago and today's. Dale Anne Reiss, who directs the real estate practice at Ernst & Young, points out that in the past, a landlord defaulting on a mortgage was often required to dispose of all other properties to pay off the lender, ''creating a huge domino effect.'' Such so-called recourse loans are rare today.
 Another difference is that 15 years ago, most financing came from banks and savings and loans. When rental income fell below mortgage payments, many landlords were unable to refinance their mortgages. Today, by contrast, real estate financing has become highly complex, with many types of lenders assuming different levels of risk. ''There were much fewer choices 15 years ago than you have today,'' said Sam Zell, the chairman of Equity Office Properties.
 Mr. Zell's company has sold $1.6 billion worth of office buildings this year, but it has also announced $860 million worth of acquisitions since January, including plans to buy the Verizon building at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas for $505 million.
 ''This is a great opportunity to assess what markets you want to be in and what you don't,'' Mr. Zell said.
 Calpers is not getting out of the real estate market either, but it is reducing its exposure to prime real estate and is buying more property abroad, said Michael B. McCook, the pension fund's senior investment officer in real estate. This year, Calpers sold $7 billion worth of office and real estate property jointly owned with various partners. ''The price points are far greater than we would ever pay,'' he said. ''And if you're not a buyer, then you've got to be a seller.'' 
 Even those who are optimistic about the commercial real estate market in general are worried about the frantic pace of condo construction in places like South Florida and Las Vegas, where a high proportion of the buyers are investors.
 Raymond G. Torto, the managing director of Torto Wheaton Research, a company owned by CB Richard Ellis, said that the commercial real estate market may have some rough spots but is in no danger of a collapse. He added, however, ''When my dentist owns six condos in Miami, you know there's a problem.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Last year the Bank of America Center in San Francisco, left, sold for $825 million
it is now said to be going on the market for as much as $1.25 billion. In this year's biggest deal, the MetLife Building on Park Avenue in Manhattan, below, sold for $1.7 billion. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Chart: ''Commercial real estate sales''Data are for office, retail, industrial and apartment buildings over $5 million.Graph tracks data for office, retail, industrial and apartment buildings over $5 million from 2001 through 2005 for San Francisco, Miami, Dallas, Atlanta, Washington, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and New York.(Source by Real Capital Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: REIS INC (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: REIS (NASDAQ) (61%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



260 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 359 words

PERSON: Seymour M. Finger

HEADLINE: Seymour Finger, 90, Diplomat For U.S. at the United Nations

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Seymour M. Finger, a retired United States diplomat at the United Nations and a recognized authority on foreign affairs, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
 The cause was aspiration pneumonia, his wife, Annette, said. 
At his death, Mr. Finger was a senior fellow at the Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies of the City University of New York. He was the institute's director from 1971 to 1982.
 Mr. Finger served in the United States Mission to the United Nations from 1956 to 1971; for the last four of those years, he was a senior adviser, with the rank of ambassador, to the United States' permanent representative to the United Nations. In later years, Mr. Finger taught political science at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and at the Staten Island College.
 Seymour Maxwell Finger, known as Max, was born in the Bronx on April 30, 1915, and was raised in Brooklyn. He earned a bachelor's degree in American history from Ohio University in 1935, and during World War II he served with the Army in Europe.
 Mr. Finger began his diplomatic career in 1946 with the Foreign Service, holding posts throughout Europe and in Laos. In the 1950's, he did graduate work in economics at Harvard. 
 The author or editor of many books, Mr. Finger wrote ''American Jewry During the Holocaust'' (1984), published by the American Jewish Commission on the Holocaust. The report of the commission, of which Mr. Finger was research director, concluded that the major Jewish organizations in the United States had not done all they could to save victims of the Holocaust, still a controversial position at the time of publication. The chairman of the commission was former Justice Arthur J. Goldberg of the Supreme Court.
 Mr. Finger's first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Helen Kotcher, whom he married in 1956, died in the 1980's. He is survived by his wife, the former Annette Baslaw, whom he married in 1988; four children: Mark, of Manhattan; Robin Baslaw of Guilford, Conn.; Michele Friedman of West Hempstead, N.Y.; David Baslaw of Passaic, N.J.; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HOLOCAUST (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PNEUMONIA (72%); HISTORY (71%); WRITERS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); OHIO UNIVERSITY (55%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (54%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



261 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Funds Will Be There When Technology Is, M.T.A. Chief Says

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority acknowledged yesterday that the agency had been slow to spend more than $600 million budgeted for counterterrorism efforts, but he maintained that a lack of reliable technologies had made it difficult to determine how best to defend the transit network against a potential attack.
 ''The easy way out would be to spend the money quickly, without a thorough analysis of the cost and benefit,'' the chairman, Peter S. Kalikow, said in an interview. ''The technology for this kind of stuff is still emerging. When stuff is proven, we'll be there. We don't think we should be wasting money on unproven technology.'' 
 But Mr. Kalikow, who has rarely spoken publicly about specific attempts the authority has made to better protect the city's subways, buses and bridges, conceded that over the nearly four years since 9/11, some time had been wasted in taking action.
 ''The answer is probably yes,'' he said, ''but not a critical amount.'' 
 The deadly subway and bus attacks in London last week drew renewed attention to transit security in New York City, which has the largest mass transit system in the United States. 
 Mr. Kalikow, seeming relaxed and confident during a 90-minute interview at his Park Avenue office, expressed skepticism about the sophisticated gadgets that the authority has explored using, like blast-proof carbon sheeting for underwater tunnels, sensors that can detect biological or chemical agents, and devices that use heat, sound or motion to discern the presence of intruders. 
 He said he would like to use more police officers, bomb-sniffing dogs and closed-circuit television cameras throughout the subway, bus and commuter rail network. ''Those things are the only methods that are not suggested with the qualifying phrase, 'if they work,''' he said. ''When I hear the phrase 'if they work,' just like the dog's ears go up when he sees and smells the explosives, my ears go up because I'm waiting for the other shoe to fall.'' 
 The authority has added some 200 officers to its police force, which protects two commuter railroads as well as Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal. (The New York Police Department is responsible for patrolling the subways.)
 Mr. Kalikow said the authority was restricted in using its capital budget, including much of the $600 million it has available, to hire more police officers. ''It would be nice if I could spend it on overtime and extra personnel, but I can't,'' he said. 
 Yesterday, Mr. Kalikow and other officials provided a fuller accounting of one major component of the agency's planning in the last four years: a long and ultimately fruitless negotiation with the Army over the use of military technologies to fortify tunnels, bridges, train yards and other facilities. The negotiations began in early 2002 and lasted through the end of 2003, when they were abandoned. In recent days, some current and former officials have said that a number of factors sank the negotiations, including the firing of the authority's two top security officials in May 2003 and the expense and complexity of the Army's proposal.
 Yesterday, Veronique G. Hakim, a lawyer for M.T.A. Capital Construction, which handles big projects for the authority, said the deal collapsed because the Army was unwilling to submit to the reviews and oversight that the authority normally asserts over contractors.
 ''That approach would have us relinquish to the Army control of the entire M.T.A. security program,'' Ms. Hakim said. ''That was something we obviously could not agree to.'' 
 Mr. Kalikow would say only that the Army's proposal was ''not applicable to a system as large as ours and would cause inconvenience to passengers and employees.'' 
 Also yesterday, the authority released several letters that revealed the intensity and complexity of its negotiations with the Army.
 In one letter, dated Nov. 5, 2002, Gen. Paul J. Kern, who was commander of the Army Materiel Command until he retired in 2004, told Louis R. Anemone, then the authority's security chief, that ''protection of the transportation system is fundamental in continuing the economic well-being and the quality of life for the nation.''
 The authority also sought approval from Congress. On April 9, 2003, the authority's top labor official, Gary J. Dellaverson, told Representative Rush D. Holt, Democrat of New Jersey, that it was prepared to devote virtually all of its counterterrorism funds, ''approximately $600 million,'' to the ''vulnerability mitigation program'' developed by the Army. He asked Mr. Holt for legislation that would grant a special exemption from federal policies that bar the Army from receiving money from a nonfederal source.
 In May 2003, Mr. Anemone, who had been a high-ranking police commander, was fired, along with his deputy, in an unrelated dispute. His successor, William A. Morange, continued discussions with the Army for several months, according to the correspondence.
 ''I think Anemone had a vision of how we could work together and it was difficult to implement that vision without him,'' said Robert Doto, who until his retirement last year was director of the Communication-Electronics Research Development and Engineering Center, an Army unit in Fort Monmouth, N.J., that took the lead in talks with the authority.
 In September 2003, the authority's board voted, at a closed-door meeting, to approve the talks with the Army. But the next month, the Army made it clear that it would need more control than the authority was prepared to give up, Ms. Hakim said.
 A spokesman for the Army research center said that many issues complicated the talks, including the authority's requirement that contractors obtain liability insurance.
 ''The Army is not a contractor and under federal statutes does not buy insurance,'' the spokesman, Henry Kearney, said yesterday.
 By December 2003, the authority decided to switch to an entirely new strategy and solicited proposals from engineering firms for designs to make the transit system more impervious to attack.
 There was one coda to the nearly two years of talks. Last year, the authority issued a ''task-order agreement'' allowing the Army to provide small-scale engineering reviews, related to counterterrorism, on an advisory basis, Ms. Hakim said. So far, no such orders have been issued.
 ''We haven't needed them to date,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DOGS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); EXPLOSIVES (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) Terrorism; Transit Systems; Subways; Buses; Security and Warning Systems; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Peter S Kalikow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; London (Eng); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



262 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Despite Rebound in Oil Price, Shares Mostly Extend Gains 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed yesterday as higher oil prices put pressure on the market. But the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broad gauge of big companies, neared a four-year high, and the technology-focused Nasdaq composite index continued its recent rise. 
 The major indexes held onto gains of 2.3 percent to 3.6 percent over the last four trading sessions. Strong earnings from PepsiCo and others helped investors remain positive. 
 That enabled Wall Street to withstand a rise in the price of oil above $60 a barrel as traders worried about another active hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico. Oil for August delivery settled in New York at $60.62, up $1.70. 
 Analysts were pleased that the stock market did not sell off after the previous sessions' gains, especially with oil prices rising. Bryan Piskorkowski of Wachovia Securities said: ''Really, the market is behaving well, just backing and filling after three big days. What we need now is good economic data and good earnings if we want this rally to keep going.'' 
 And Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors, said: ''On balance, things are going well, but the mood is still very, very guarded. Confidence in the market is improving, but it's improving in very small steps because there's still risks out there, like oil prices.'' 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.83 points, or 0.06 percent, to 10,513.89. The S.&P. 500 advanced 2.77 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,222.21, just 3 points shy of a four-year closing high reached in March. The Nasdaq composite index was up 7.72 points, or 0.36 percent, at 2,143.15, its best close since Jan. 3. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization stocks was down 0.95 point, or 0.14 percent, at 670.79, off a record closing level on Monday.
 Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange outpaced decliners by a margin of 4 to 3. Volume of 1.457 billion shares narrowly exceeded Monday's volume of 1.451 billion.
 PepsiCo rose 75 cents, to $54.60, as earnings increased 13 percent over the previous quarter and the company surpassed Wall Street earnings forecasts by 3 cents a share. PepsiCo reiterated previous forecasts for full-year earnings. 
 AmeriTrade Holding, the online brokerage business, said that its earnings increased 20 percent in the latest quarter, meeting analysts' estimates, and that it was on track for a record year. Ameritrade rose 37 cents, to $19.28. 
 Bear Stearns slipped 7 cents, to $106.71, after it said that it was setting aside a further $100 million in connection with an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into its role in helping hedge funds trade shares of mutual funds. 
 Hudson United Bancorp of New Jersey surged 11 percent, or $4.14, to $41.64, after it agreed to be purchased by TD Banknorth of Portland, Me., for $1.9 million in cash and stock. The deal is expected to create a strong regional bank in New England, upstate New York and New Jersey. TD Banknorth dropped 86 cents, to $29.10. 
 Shares of Host America, which provides energy management and conservation technology, more than doubled, up $3.23, to $6.35. The company said that the next phase of a deal with Wal-Mart ''will involve a significant number of stores.''
 On the bond market yesterday, prices were lower, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.14 percent from 4.09 percent on Monday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 13/32, to 99 27/32.
 Bond weakness was attributed to a second day of marked declines in the dollar against some other major currencies. 
 Here are the results from yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.769
High Rate: 2.960
Coupon Yield: 3.008
Low Rate: 2.920
Median Rate: 2.950
Total applied for: $45,692,865
Accepted: $18,456,487
Noncompetitive: $102,687

The four-week bills mature Aug. 11, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ONLINE TRADING (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: TD BANK US HOLDING CO (60%); PEPSICO INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (57%); AMTD (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



263 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Let a Thousand Licensed Poppies Bloom

BYLINE: By Maia Szalavitz. 
Maia Szalavitz is a senior fellow at Stats, a media watchdog group.

 BODY:
EVEN as Afghanistan's immense opium harvest feeds lawlessness and instability, finances terrorism and fuels heroin addiction, the developing world is experiencing a severe shortage of opium-derived pain medications, according to the World Health Organization. Developing countries are home to 80 percent of the world's population, but they consume just 6 percent of the medical opioids. In those countries, most people with cancer, AIDS and other painful conditions live and die in agony.
 The United States wants Afghanistan to destroy its potentially merciful crop, which has increased sevenfold since 2002 and now constitutes 60 percent of the country's gross domestic product. But why not bolster the country's stability and end both the pain and the trafficking problems by licensing Afghanistan with the International Narcotics Control Board to sell its opium legally? 
 The Senlis Council, a European drug-policy research institution, has proposed this truly winning solution. Adopting it would improve the Afghan economy, deprive terrorists of income and keep heroin away from dealers and addicts, all while offering pain relief to the third world.
 The United Nations estimated that Afghanistan produced more than 4,200 tons of opium last year; cultivation jumped to 323,701 acres from 197,680 acres in 2003. Ten percent of the Afghan population is believed to be involved in the trade, which supplies nearly 90 percent of the world's illegal heroin. Clearly, this drug war is not being won.
 The global pain crisis is just as daunting. The World Health Organization has said that opioids are ''absolutely necessary'' for treating severe pain. But half the world's countries use them only rarely if at all even for the dying, and even though research shows that addiction is exceedingly uncommon among pain patients without a history of it. 
 Here in the United States, only half of all dying patients receive adequate relief, and those suffering from chronic non-cancer pain are even more likely to be undermedicated. Senlis estimates that meeting the global need for pain medications would require 10,000 tons of opium a year -- more than twice Afghanistan's current production.
 This shortfall is in part attributable to misguided regulation. Restrictions aimed at preventing diversion to the illegal market are so severe that in some countries, medical use of opioids is practically prohibited. Often, the rich retain access to expensive synthetic opioids like OxyContin, while those who cannot afford brand-name drugs receive no treatment at all. Generic morphine and codeine, made from Afghan opium, could help.
 Because farmers aren't the ones who make the big bucks in the illegal drug trade, purchasing their poppies at competitive rates should be possible. But even if we paid exactly what the drug lords do, the entire crop would cost only about $600 million -- less than the $780 million the United States planned to spend on eradication in Afghanistan this year. 
 Besides, eradication efforts have never eliminated a drug crop. Cocaine continues to be widely available, despite the roughly $3 billion that the United States has spent on coca eradication in Colombia over the last five years. And that is only the most recent example.
 India's thriving generic drug industry suggests that there is plenty of money to be made in the marketing of generic pain relievers. But even if returns are modest, generating any profit at all is better than stamping out the major driver of an unstable country's economy. Legal products are also safer and easier to regulate than illegal drugs.
 Of course, the Senlis plan does present serious logistical problems. Warlords would not relinquish profits without a fight, and their attempts to undermine the proposal could be formidable.
 But think of it this way: what's an easier sell with farmers, hard cash now or pesticide spraying and potentially empty promises of economic assistance? Few Afghans begrudge farmers' efforts to feed their families -- but many would turn against greedy planters who continued supplying drug lords despite adequate alternatives.
 The real barriers here are political, not practical. The Afghan government initially appeared open to the proposal: its counternarcotics minister spoke at a Senlis meeting in Vienna in March. But another minister later dismissed the idea in front of foreign reporters and Hamid Karzai ducked the question in a March meeting with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
 The Bush administration has criticized Mr. Karzai's ''leadership'' on opium (despite his call for ''jihad on drugs'') but refuses to support measures beyond eradication. Responding to the Senlis proposal, one former State Department official who had been working on narcotics and law enforcement told The Christian Science Monitor: ''Anything that went about legalizing an opiate in that market would send exactly the wrong message. It would suggest that there is something legitimate to growing.''
 But there is: countries like India are licensed by the International Narcotics Control Board to grow opium because modern medicine cannot find anything better than opioids to relieve pain. And think of the goodwill such a gesture could produce, a message that we literally want to assuage the world's suffering -- not to mention that of the 30 million to 50 million Americans who endure chronic pain. 
 The Senlis Council is holding a conference in Kabul this September to secure support from drug policy expertsfor a feasibility study of its proposal. As Afghanistan seems to grow increasingly unstable by the day, let's hope that proposal receives the backing it deserves. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Luba Lukova) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (93%); OPIUM (93%); ANALGESICS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); NARCOTERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); TRENDS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CANCER (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Heroin; Terrorism; Medicine and Health; Pain; Pain-Relieving Drugs

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) Senlis Council

PERSON: Maia Szalavitz

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



264 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: For Parents Seeking a Choice, Charter Schools Prove More Popular Than Vouchers

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
When Ohio enacted a pilot program of school vouchers here a decade ago, David Brennan, an Ohio businessman, quickly founded two schools for voucher students. 
 Three years later, with voucher programs under attack, Mr. Brennan closed the schools and reopened them as charter schools, another educational experiment gaining momentum at the time. 
 That decision reflected the fortunes of the two parallel school choice movements that once shared the cutting edge of the nation's school reform efforts. Charter schools, which are publicly financed but privately administered, have proliferated across the nation, with 3,300 such schools now educating nearly one million students in 40 states. In contrast, voucher programs, which use taxpayer funds to pay tuition at private schools, serve only about 36,000 students in Ohio, Florida, Wisconsin and Washington, D.C. 
 ''Vouchers are moving slowly,'' said Paul T. Hill, a professor who studies school choice as director of the University of Washington's Center on Reinventing Public Education. ''The American people don't want a complete free market in education. They want some government oversight of taxpayer-funded schools.''
 Last month voucher advocates achieved a rare victory when the Republican-dominated Ohio legislature created 14,000 new publicly financed ''scholarships'' or vouchers to allow students in failing public schools to attend private schools. That will make Ohio's voucher program, which began in 1996 with the Cleveland pilot program, the largest in the country. Earlier this spring the Utah Legislature also created a small voucher program that will allow disabled students to study at private schools at public expense.
 But those twin victories were the meager results from the most ambitious legislative campaign yet by voucher advocates. Republicans introduced proposals in more than 30 legislatures for voucher or tuition tax credits, an arrangement under which parents receive a subsidy for children's private schooling through the tax code rather than as a direct grant. Vouchers were defeated in Florida, South Carolina, Texas, Indiana and Missouri.
 Still, in the view of voucher proponents, the legislative sessions brought significant advances, and they are celebrating, especially because this is the 50th anniversary of the 1955 essay in which University of Chicago economist Milton Friedman suggested the use of vouchers.
 In an interview, Dr. Friedman, now 93, said he believed that vouchers would eventually become more widespread than charter schools. But he acknowledged disappointment with vouchers' modest growth. ''My personal belief is that the rapid expansion of charter schools will be a short-lived phenomenon, because they are only a halfway solution.''Dr. Friedman said.
 Many voucher students attend parochial schools like St. Agatha-St. Aloysius, housed in a crumbling brick hulk of a building on Cleveland's East Side. The neighborhood has changed much, from mostly Irish-American to mostly black, but the school, where Sister Sandra Soho has been a teacher or principal for 35 years, has not. Boys wear white shirts and ties, shelves in the basement library are stocked with trophies won by teams a half-century ago, discipline is strict and daily homework is a given. 
 Charter schools here and elsewhere encompass a range of curriculums and styles. The several Hope Academies in Cleveland, managed by Mr. Brennan's company, follow a back-to-basics approach. Some charter schools, like the City Day Community School in Dayton, are intimate academies. Others are technology-rich, where students take notes in class on computers. 
 Legislative debates over voucher programs and charter schools have tended to become fierce political brawls. ''The entire educational establishment -- the unions, the administrators, the school boards -- is opposed to vouchers,'' said Kent Grusendorf, a Republican Texas state representative who chairs the House Education Committee. 
 Several Republican lawmakers voted with Democrats to defeat a voucher proposal in Texas last month. ''This is one area where management and unions work in perfect unison,'' Mr. Grusendorf said. 
 The nation's first voucher program and its first charter schools began at about the same time. In 1990, Wisconsin enacted the first voucher program, in Milwaukee. A year later, Minnesota voted the nation's first charter school law. Many legislatures approved charter schools because they seemed less radical and aroused less opposition than vouchers, said Clint Bolick, president of the Alliance for School Choice, a Phoenix-based group.
 ''Charters are glasnost and vouchers are perestroika,'' Mr. Bolick said, referring to Mikhail Gorbachev's twin reform policies in the Soviet Union, the former a halfway measure of openness, the latter a more radical restructuring. ''The educational establishment has been willing to allow charters in some states just to forestall vouchers.'' 
 As an example, he cited Arizona, where in 1995 lawmakers came within a few votes of enacting a broad voucher program. Instead, the Legislature passed a law that has made it easier to create charter schools there than anywhere else in the nation. Arizona now has 500 charter schools, but no voucher program. This year, the Legislature enacted a tuition tax credit, but Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, vetoed it.
 Voters got a chance to give their opinions on voucher programs in 2000, when proponents succeeded in getting initiatives on the ballot in California and Michigan. That year vouchers programs got much positive publicity when George W. Bush spoke in favor of them during his presidential campaign. But voters overwhelmingly rejected the two state proposals that November.
 Ohio launched its pilot voucher program in Cleveland in 1996, offering taxpayer-financed ''scholarships'' to about 2,000 students. By this past school year, the program had grown to about 5,600 students attending 44 private schools.
 Also over the past decade, more than 200 charter schools have been started in Ohio. Mr. Brennan, the businessman who opened and then closed the two voucher schools in Cleveland, today runs 34 profit-making charter schools across Ohio.
 The Cleveland voucher program has become quite popular, especially with black parents like Andrea Holland. Black children make up about half of the city's voucher school students. 
 Ms. Holland, who runs an electrical contracting business with her husband, enrolled their son Jonathan, 13, at St. Agatha-St. Aloysius parochial school two years ago, transferring him from a public elementary school where he had faced bullying, she said. 
 ''I'm not otherwise able, like rich folks, to take my kid out and put him into a private school,'' Ms. Holland said. ''But with this program I can afford to.''
 Kim Metcalf, an education researcher who conducted a nine-year study of the Cleveland voucher program, concluded that average achievement levels of Cleveland's voucher students were in some instances significantly higher, and were never lower, than those of students in the Cleveland public schools. In contrast, achievement levels at most of Cleveland's charter schools were somewhat lower than in Cleveland's traditional public schools with similar student populations, according to a 2003 study by Ohio's Legislative Office of Education Oversight, a nonpartisan agency.
 Because voucher programs divert tax dollars from public to private schools that are not subject to the same government accountability measures -- standardized tests, for example -- both national teachers' unions, the American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association, oppose them. Officially, at least, the unions support charter schools, as long as they are governed by nonprofit groups, are held accountable for student achievement and meet other criteria. In New York City, the United Federation of Teachers is working to start its own charter schools. 
 In states like Ohio that permit private companies to govern whole chains of charter schools, the unions have fought them bitterly.
 ''Charters and vouchers are equal on our agenda,'' said Tom Mooney, the president of the Ohio Federation of Teachers. ''We consider charters more insidious right now, because they've grown larger, but vouchers could grow, too.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrea Holland used a voucher program to enroll her son Jonathan, 13, in a parochial school after he faced bullying in a public school. (Photo by Brynne Shaw for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL VOUCHERS (94%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (92%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Education and Schools; Vouchers; Charter Schools; Private and Sectarian Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%)

PERSON: Sam Dillon

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) OHIO, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



265 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Judges Hearing Appeal of Quattrone Conviction Raise Concerns About Fairness at Trial
A panel of federal appeals court judges indicated that they had reservations about a jury's decision to convict Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker, of obstruction of justice. During a hearing in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan, the three judges expressed concerns about whether the behavior of the prosecutor and the judge's jury instructions may have unfairly affected its outcome. [C1.]

An Agency in the Spotlight Over Chinese Bid for Unocal
The bid by the Chinese National Offshore Oil Company to buy Unocal has put a spotlight on a government agency that reviews acquisitions of American assets by foreign entities as it tries to determine whether the sale of energy resources represents a threat to national security. [C1.]

New Jersey Bank Acquired for $1.9 Billion
Toronto-Dominion Bank, one of Canada's largest financial institutions, said that its American banking division had agreed to buy the Hudson United Bancorp of New Jersey for $1.9 billion as part of a long-term American strategy that includes moving into New York City. With the deal, the division, TD Banknorth, will gain United's 204 Northeast branches. [C3.]

A federal appeals court has ruled that state banking officials cannot regulate the operating units of national banks. The decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is a victory for the Wachovia Corporation, which had sued the Connecticut Banking commissioner, John Burke. [C3.]

Colin Powell Joins Silicon Valley Venture Capital Firm
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a prominent venture capital firm in Silicon Valley, is set to announce that former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is joining the firm as a part-time partner. [C1.]

CBS to Increase Online Video News and Commentary
As part of an ambitious attempt to revive CBSNews.com with a broad array of free video news produced just for its Web site, CBS said that it would also introduce a Web log to comment on CBS's newscasts, both online and on air. The new blog, called Public Eye, will assemble questions from viewers, criticism from blogs and other sources, and immediately bring in reactions from the CBS newsroom. [C1.]

A nonprofit organization that provides archival services for the Internet was sued under copyright and computer fraud laws after its archives were accessed by a law firm handling a trademark case. [C9.]

Hedge Fund Growth Slowing, a Study Says
After a spectacular two-year run, growth in the hedge fund industry is expected to slow sharply in 2005, according to a study by Deutsche Bank's hedge fund group. [C3.]

JetBlue Airways to Begin Flights From Newark in October
JetBlue Airways said it planned to begin flights from Newark Liberty International Airport in October, mostly to cities in Florida, meaning that it will serve all three major airports in the New York City area. [C4.]

Venture to Broaden Presentation of Live Performances
In a bid to widen the audience for concerts and live events, America Online and XM Satellite Radio are backing a venture that will deliver live performances to Internet, satellite and wireless customers and through other media. Many performances will originate from arenas and theaters owned by the Anschutz Company's AEG division, a concert promoter that holds a stake in the venture. Kevin Wall, left, executive producer of the multicity Live 8 concert calling for aid to Africa, will run the venture, Network Live. [C4.]

Stocks Mixed as High Oil Price Offsets Earnings Reports
Stock prices were mixed as pressure from higher oil prices offset support from positive earnings reports. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 5.83 points, to 10,513.89; the S.&P. 500 advanced 2.77 points, to 1,222.21; the Nasdaq composite index was up 7.72 points, at 2,143.15. [C10.]

Intel Offices Raided in European Antitrust Investigation
The European Commission, investigating charges that Intel has been abusing a rebate program intended to keep PC makers from buying chips from Intel's competitors, conducted unannounced visits to Intel offices around Europe, along with computer makers and retailers, a spokesman said, [C6.]

Vincent Bollore Elected Chairman of Havas
A month after winning a battle with management, the corporate investor Vincent Bollore has consolidated his control of Havas, the French agency company. Mr. Bollore, the largest shareholder of Havas, was named chairman at a board meeting and will serve with a new chief executive, Philippe Wahl, who is a longtime business associate of Mr. Bollore. [C4.]

Thailand to Cut Fuel Subsidies but Raise Wages
Backed into a corner by rising oil price rises and falling economic growth, the Thai government announced measures aimed at propping up consumer confidence and curbing fuel consumption. The government said it would end fuel subsidies but raise salaries for civil servants and the country's minimum wage. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Hudson United shares since April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); APPEALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (79%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (79%); LITIGATION (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); LAWYERS (75%); AIRPORTS (73%); COMPUTER CRIME (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); TRADEMARKS (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (67%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); COPYRIGHT LAW (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (82%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (82%); TD BANK US HOLDING CO (82%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (69%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (82%); TD (TSX) (69%); TD (NYSE) (69%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



266 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Unocal Bid Opens Up New Issues Of Security

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The fate of the China National Offshore Oil Corporation's bid for Unocal remains uncertain, but one thing is clear. The takeover offer has prompted a gathering groundswell in Congress to make sure oil is defined as a product vital to America's national security.
 If the political push gains momentum, it will change the mandate and reach of a little-known, secretive body with representatives from 12 government agencies, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. The outcome of Cnooc's bid for Unocal may rest in the hands of that committee.
One salvo came at the end of last month with a House resolution that declared that permitting the Chinese company to buy Unocal would ''threaten to impair the national security of the United States.'' It passed 398 to 15. 
 Now the members of a bipartisan advisory group to Congress are urging representatives and senators to amend the law that controls the work of the foreign investment committee. The Congressional advisory group wants the law to specifically expand the definition of America's national security to include matters of economic security, like energy and oil supplies.
 ''Is energy security national security? We certainly think it is,'' said C. Richard D'Amato, chairman of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, which advises Congress.
 Mr. D'Amato is scheduled to testify today at a House Armed Services Committee hearing on the national security implications of the Chinese company's pending bid for Unocal, a midsize American oil company.
 The $18.5 billion bid by Cnooc competes with one from Chevron, which is lower at $16.8 billion. But the Chevron offer came before the Cnooc bid surfaced, and Cnooc faces regulatory and political hurdles that Chevron does not. The Unocal board has approved the Chevron offer, but is now talking with Cnooc as well.
 To treat oil, a globally traded commodity, as a national security product would represent a departure for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, known as Cfius (pronounced SIH-fee-us), created in 1988 to scrutinize foreign purchases of American companies for national security concerns. The committee, headed by the Treasury secretary, has representatives from 12 agencies including the State Department, Defense Department, Department of Homeland Security, Commerce Department, Office of the United States Trade Representative and National Security Council. Its proceedings are secret.
 Over the years, in both Republican and Democratic administrations, the investment committee has typically focused on the potential of a foreign takeover to transfer military-related technologies used in arms like fighter jets, precision bombs and nuclear submarines.
 The committee, according to foreign trade specialists and former government officials, routinely looks for so-called dual-use technologies that have advanced industrial and military applications. To satisfy those security concerns, mergers have often been modified -- to spin off a small but sensitive operation, for example, or restrict access to a plant to American employees. In some cases, bidders drop their offers when confronted with the committee review and its conditions.
 Of more than 1,500 filings to the committee in 17 years, only about a dozen cases, trade experts say, have gone through a 30-day preliminary inquiry and a 45-day investigation, and then been referred to the president with a recommendation to approve or block the deal. Only one deal has been blocked on national security grounds: the 1990 sale of a airplane parts maker based in Seattle, Mamco Manufacturing, to the China National Aero-Technology Import and Export Corporation. 
 A Cnooc-Unocal deal, trade and security analysts say, could raise some traditional national security concerns that the investment committee would want to investigate. For example, the analysts said that Unocal had underwater terrain-mapping technology used for offshore oil exploration that might also be useful in navigation for the Chinese military's growing fleet of submarines.
 ''There could be national security issues in the Cnooc deal, but locking up oil is not one of them,'' said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a former senior official on the National Security Council in the Clinton administration, who is a China expert at the University of Michigan.
 Many economists and oil specialists are skeptical that owning oil is vital to national security. Controlling the oil and gas reserves in the ground, they say, does not increase a nation's energy security as long as there is a deep worldwide market for buying it by the barrel or tanker.
 But the national security concern raised by members of Congress, their advisers and some oil experts is that the petroleum market may be changing because of tight supplies, rapidly rising demand from fast-growing nations like China and India, and the increasing strategy among state-owned oil companies to control reserves.
 As a result, they warn, less oil will be bought and sold on the free market, while more will be locked up by national interests.
 ''I'm generally a free-trader, but I do think that we need to understand our security differently,'' explained Larry M. Wortzel, a former military attache to the American Embassy in Beijing and a member of the Congressional United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission.
 Another member of the Congressional commission, Michael R. Wessel, said: ''I think most people would agree that oil is a national security issue. What is still to be determined, of course, is what to do about it.''
 That would be a politically difficult call, if the Bush administration had to make one in the Cnooc case. Both the Chinese company and its critics in Congress have asked the foreign investment committee to review the Cnooc bid. The Chinese company made its lengthy voluntary filing to the committee on June 29.
 ''Everybody in Congress was calling for a national security review,'' observed Daniel L. Spiegel, a partner in the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, which represents Cnooc. ''We heard the calls and we moved forward. We made the filing.'' 
 The Cnooc side has heard nothing yet from the investment committee, which has apparently not begun a review. Cnooc contends that delay favors Chevron, and its own bid is hardly ''hypothetical,'' as Treasury Secretary John W. Snow termed the Cnooc offer.
 The Treasury Department position is that an inquiry will not start until ''the committee has made a determination that a transaction is likely to be successful,'' said Tony Fratto, a department spokesman. 
 In the past, the foreign investment committee has conducted reviews of unsolicited takeover bids. It did so in 1990 when BTR of Britain bid for Norton, a producer of industrial abrasives whose products were used to make aircraft parts and missile domes. Later, when Saint-Gobain of France joined the contest, the foreign investment committee conducted the two reviews simultaneously. Saint-Gobain eventually won with a higher bid, and President George H.W. Bush approved the sale.
 The administration, foreign policy specialists say, wants to put off a decision on Cnooc if it can. The United States, they note, faces a series of thorny issues with China on other fronts. Washington wants Beijing to put pressure on North Korea in coming nuclear disarmament talks; the United States is pressing China to restrain its digital pirates, who illegally copy movies, software and other goods; and there are the continuing tensions over China's huge trade surplus with the United States, manufacturing jobs lost to China and Washington's call for China to loosen its fixed-rate currency policy.
 ''The Bush administration would rather see the Cnooc bid and the issues surrounding it just go away somehow,'' said Mr. Lieberthal of the University of Michigan. ''The administration is not anxious to put another issue -- a potentially negative one -- on the U.S.-China agenda.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Unocal offshore drilling platform in the Gulf of Mexico. (Photo by Unocal, via Bloomberg News)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); APPROVALS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Law and Legislation ; United States Economy; Energy and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (94%); CHEVRON CORP (86%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES (83%) China National Offshore Oil Corp; Unocal Corp; Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (86%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (86%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



267 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: On Eminent Domain, Many Shifting Stances

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 12 

 BODY:
It should be familiar ground for Democrats, defending the little guy against big-money interests, but on the question of whether a string of modest waterfront homes in New London, Conn., should be seized by the government for private development, the Democrats dithered while the Republicans charged into battle.
 On June 23, the United States Supreme Court ruled that fostering economic development is an appropriate use of the government's power of eminent domain. The 5-4 decision cleared the way for the city of New London to replace 15 homes in a neighborhood known as Fort Trumbull with a sprawling project that includes a conference hotel to be built by private developers.
 Connecticut has long had laws allowing municipalities and the state to seize private property for economic development. But the widespread publicity about the New London case and the subsequent Supreme Court ruling have put a spotlight on the issue. From the backyard fence to the radio waves, people are expressing sympathy for the New London home owners and concerns that their own homes are vulnerable in the name of economic development. 
 The reaction of some lawmakers, on the other hand, has been less easy to characterize. Republicans in the Democratic-controlled legislature have taken the lead since Connecticut's Supreme Court first ruled against the New London homeowners last year, three times proposing amendments that would restrict the use of eminent domain for economic development. All failed.
 Immediately after last month's Supreme Court ruling, Democrats still had little to say, with one leader, Donald E. Williams Jr., the Senate president pro tempore, suggesting that the General Assembly wait until next year to examine the state laws.
 Now, almost three weeks after the ruling, Democrats have asked for municipalities to wait before changing local eminent domain ordinances while legislative leaders consider whether to call a special session to look at the issue. The Republicans have been more emphatic, saying they want a moratorium on property seizures and a special session.
 On Monday, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, chimed in with a defiant note, likening the use of eminent domain for economic development to the ''21st-century equivalent of the Boston Tea Party.''
 ''But this time, it is not a monarch wearing robes in England we are fighting -- it is five robed justices at the Supreme Court in Washington,'' she said in a statement released by her office.
 This was quite a change in tone from the day of the ruling, when she stopped of short of criticizing it and said the Connecticut legislature ''ought to'' consider it. But the usually cautious Mrs. Rell is now squarely behind the fight to limit the use of eminent domain, an issue that resonates deeply with homeowners around the country.
 ''Home ownership is often referred to as 'the American Dream,''' she said. ''Our homes are the places where we raise our families and build our lives. When government intrudes on our homes, it must have a defensible reason. In the New London case, the reason was not defensible.''
 Some Democratic leaders also vacillated.
 The state attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, who is considered a leading Democratic candidate should he seek to run for governor, initially praised the decision of the nation's highest court, as ''vindicating long-established eminent domain principles.'' However, one day after the ruling, he said that Connecticut's eminent domain law deserved ''serious, critical scrutinizing.''
 ''We must make sure that it protects private property rights and adequately defines the public interests that taking private property must serve,'' he said in a statement issued by his office.
 House Speaker James A. Amann, a Democrat, said on Tuesday, ''We certainly don't agree with the Supreme Court,'' but he could not explain why the legislature had defeated three Republican proposals to restrict the ability of municipalities from taking property for private development.
 His Democratic colleague, Michael Lawlor, a state representative who is co-chairman of the judiciary committee, described the earlier proposals as ''too simplistic,'' noting that the state has dozens of statutes that authorize the seizure of private property through eminent domain.
 ''You can't just shoot from the hip,'' he said. ''The worst thing we could do is approve something that sounds good but leaves homeowners vulnerable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (92%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ORDINANCES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (69%) Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT (55%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (79%) Stacey Stowe; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New London (Conn); New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



268 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Suicide Bombing Possible In London Attacks
British police said a team of four British-born men carried out last Thursday's deadly terrorist attacks in London, including at least one that appears to be the country's first suicide bombing. A1

Suicide Bomber Kills 2 in Israel
A Palestinian suicide bomber set off his explosives at a busy intersection outside a shopping mall in Netanya, Israel, killing himself and two women and wounding more than 50 people, the Israeli police said. A6

Iraqi Commandos Seek Answers
Iraq's police commandos were struggling to explain how at least 10 Sunni Arab men and boys suffocated after a commando unit seized them from a hospital emergency ward and locked them in a police van. A8

Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari said that some Iraqi cities were secure enough for American-led forces to begin withdrawing to bases outside various cities, a move he suggested could lead to a timetable for the departure of foreign troops. A8

South Korea Offers Incentive
South Korea announced that it had offered to provide North Korea with a vast supply of electrical power, should the country agree to dismantle its nuclear-weapons program. A6

Pro-Syrian Attacked in Lebanon
Lebanon's departing pro-Syrian defense minister escaped an assassination attempt with minor injuries in a car bombing that killed at least two people and wounded a dozen in a Christian suburb north of Beirut. A6

Dutch Suspect Unrepentant
A young Muslim man coolly accepted responsibility for the brutal slaying of a controversial Dutch filmmaker, adding that he would do it all over again if given the chance. A13

NATIONAL A14-19

Talking to Bush, Democrats Offer Candidates for Court
In their first meeting with President Bush over the Supreme Court vacancy, Democrats offered individual names for consideration while senators of both parties encouraged the president to look beyond the federal judiciary for candidates. A1

Homeland Budget Criticized
Senate Democrats lambasted the Bush administration's spending plan for the Homeland Security Department, saying last week's bombings in London make it clear that far too little money is allocated for critical needs, particularly protecting trains and mass transit. A14

Charging Aliens With Trespass
A district court judge in Jaffrey, N.H., heard arguments in the case of an illegal Mexican immigrant who was arrested and charged with criminal trespassing by a police officer. A14

No Reprimand at Guantanamo
A high-level military investigation into accusations of detainee abuse at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, recommended a reprimand for the former commander of the prison, but his superior declined to admonish him, according to a Congressional aide who has read a report on the inquiry. A16

Bush Vows Stem Cell Veto
With President Bush vowing to veto a bill to loosen restrictions on federal financing for embryonic stem cell research, leading Congressional Republicans have drafted an alternative that promotes new, unproven methods of obtaining stem cells without destroying embryos. A17

Space Shuttle Ready for Liftoff
With threatening skies the last remaining barrier, NASA's administrator declared that the revitalized space shuttle Discovery was ready to lift off on the fleet's first mission in nearly two and a half years. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

The New Senator Clinton Confounds Observers
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, gearing up for her re-election campaign, has been confounding those who judged her from her White House years, with a robust stand on national defense, her desire to reduce abortions and a public appearance with Newt Gingrich. B1

Change at the Plaza
New York Citys Landmarks Preservation Commission recommended the approval of a waiver that would allow 39,000 square feet of commercial space at the Plaza Hotel. B3

Transit Chief on Terrorism
The chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority acknowledged that it had been slow to spend more than $600 million for counterterrorism efforts, but said a lack of reliable technology made it hard to determine how to defend against a potential attack. B1

EDUCATION B8

ARTS E1-10

DINING OUT F1-12

OBITUARIES C17

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Armstrong Regains Lead in Tour
Lance Armstrong used the first mountain stage in the Tour de France to regain the yellow jersey of the races leader and open a lead of nearly three minutes over all his major rivals but one. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Smaller Deficit in 2005
A leap in tax revenues is about to shrink the federal budget deficit for fiscal year 2005, by nearly $100 billion, far lower than what White House officials had estimated in February. A1

Doubts on Banker Verdict
A panel of federal appeals judges indicated that they had reservations about a jury's decision to convict Frank P. Quattrone, the former technology investment banker, on obstruction of justice charges. But they also seemed to be troubled by the prospect of reversing the jury's verdict. C1

China Bid Spurs Call for Law
The takeover bid of Unocal by Cnooc Ltd. has prompted a Congressional advisory group to seek a law to specifically expand the definition of America's national security to include matters of economic security, like energy and oil supplies. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: A few thoughts on Karl Rove; the wages of failure on Wall Street; from Russia, with retribution; big weather.

Columns: Sarah Vowell, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E9
Weather B7
TV Listings E10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); VETO (88%); BIOETHICS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (74%); PRISONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ARRESTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); JUDGES (62%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CUBA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



269 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Urges Support of Transportation Bond Act

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 12 

 BODY:
Dipping into a state policy debate, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer urged state leaders on Tuesday to work together to promote a $2.9 billion transportation bond act that will go before voters in November.
 Half the money from the bond act would go toward a $21.1 billion plan for construction and repair projects for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The plan needs unanimous approval from a board that includes representatives of Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the state's two top legislative leaders. 
 As an early August deadline for that approval approaches, Mr. Spitzer said that meeting the state's transportation needs was crucial to New York's overall fiscal health.
 ''There are many critical projects across the state -- upstate, downstate, mass transit, highway -- that will benefit from this,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''It is enormously important that the infrastructure of the state continue to be developed; it is key to the economy.''
 Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat who wants to succeed Mr. Pataki, a Republican, as governor in 2006, has been injecting himself more frequently into Albany's major debates. He made his comments at an informal meeting with Capitol reporters; at a similar meeting last month, he urged state lawmakers to pass a series of lobbying and ethics bills. 
 The transportation authority's Capital Program Review Board is considering a five-year capital plan submitted by the authority on July 5. But it is unlikely to approve it before state officials resolve the issue of whether to pay union-rate wages to nonunion workers. Mr. Spitzer said debate over the wages should not prevent completion of the plan. At the meeting with reporters, Mr. Spitzer also repeated his opposition to another proposal that will be placed before voters in a referendum this November: to amend the State Constitution to give lawmakers more budget-making powers by weakening the governor's powers. 
 He criticized a failed ''political dynamic'' in Albany that led to 20 consecutive years of late state budgets. He said that lawmakers were not always effective in flushing out budget issues in public hearings, but he also said that state agencies often failed to provide sufficient information on spending, a contention that aides to the governor disputed. He pledged changes if elected.
 ''If I am elected governor, the budget process will be fundamentally different,'' Mr. Spitzer said. Over all, he said, transparency and accountability would be the ''touchstones'' of a new budget process.
 Mark Hansen, a spokesman for Joseph L. Bruno, the State Senate's majority leader, said he was surprised by the attorney general's comments. ''I am not sure what he is talking about,'' said Mr. Hansen, who said the Legislature held several budget hearings in Albany this year.
 The attorney general also took aim at so-called pork-barrel spending, the hundreds of millions of dollars in discretionary funds that are difficult to track in the budget. He said the money should be better delineated and the spending open to greater scrutiny. On that point, Mr. Hansen said, ''In terms of the discretionary spending, every contract has to be reviewed and approved by the attorney general and the comptroller.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CITIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LAWYERS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%) Transit Systems; Finances; Government Bonds; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Al Baker; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



270 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Increase In Tax Revenue Will Cut Deficit

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12 

 BODY:
For the first time since President Bush took office, an unexpected leap in tax revenue is about to shrink the federal budget deficit this year, by nearly $100 billion.
 On Wednesday, White House officials plan to announce that the deficit for the 2005 fiscal year, which ends in September, will be far smaller than the $427 billion they estimated in February.
 Mr. Bush plans to hail the improvement at a cabinet meeting and to cite it as validation of his argument that tax cuts would stimulate the economy and ultimately help pay for themselves.
 Based on revenue and spending data through June, the budget deficit for the first nine months of the fiscal year was $251 billion, $76 billion lower than the $327 billion gap recorded at the corresponding point a year earlier. 
 The Congressional Budget Office estimated last week that the deficit for the full fiscal year, which reached $412 billion in 2004, could be ''significantly less than $350 billion, perhaps below $325 billion.'' 
 The big surprise has been in tax revenue, which is running nearly 15 percent higher than in 2004. Corporate tax revenue has soared about 40 percent, after languishing for four years, and individual tax revenue is up as well. 
 Most of the increase in individual tax receipts appears to have come from higher stock market gains and the business income of relatively wealthy taxpayers. The biggest jump was not from taxes withheld from salaries but from quarterly payments on investment gains and business earnings, which were up 20 percent this year.
 That was similar, though much smaller than a sharp rise in tax revenue during the stock market boom of the late 1990's, which was followed by plunges in revenue when the market bubble burst.
 But many independent analysts cautioned that the improvement, though notable, could prove ephemeral and that it did little to eliminate much bigger fiscal problems just over the horizon. ''Lawmakers who allow themselves to be lulled into thinking that the economy is growing its way out of the deficit,'' wrote Edward McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, ''are unlikely to support the painful measures needed to reach a more lasting solution.''
 For one thing, analysts note, federal spending has continued to climb rapidly, about 7 percent this year. Despite cutbacks in many domestic programs, spending has surged for the war in Iraq as well as in certain benefit programs providing health coverage.
 In addition, while a lot of the increase in tax revenue flows from the improving economy and higher incomes, part of the jump stemmed from a special factor: the expiration of a temporary tax break that allowed companies to write off their investment in new equipment much more rapidly than normal.
 That tax break reduced revenue by about $61 billion in 2004, but it merely postponed taxes that companies would have to pay once their equipment was fully depreciated. 
 Other financial hurdles may be down the road. Mr. Bush's intention to extend his tax cuts indefinitely, and to add new ones, would drain more than $1.4 trillion from government coffers over the next 10 years.
 As the Medicare expansion into prescription drugs begins to take effect, the cost is estimated at about $33 billion in 2006, with increases every year after that. In 2015, the annual cost of the program is expected to be about $137 billion.
 A senior White House official cautioned that it was too early to make definitive judgments about whether the tax cuts had fulfilled the promises of ''supply side'' economics, a Reagan era concept that posits a direct relationship between lower tax rates and faster economic growth. 
 ''We need to wait for more data,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, who took over this month as chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, at a conference on Tuesday at the American Enterprise Institute.
 But Mr. Bernanke said the tax cuts had undoubtedly contributed to economic growth, which in turn bolstered tax receipts. 
 ''One consequence of strong income growth is that we are enjoying higher-than-expected levels of tax collections,'' he said. 
 Critics of Mr. Bush's fiscal policies said the budget outlook seemed good only in comparison with the dire state of affairs a year ago. Given that the recession formally ended nearly four years ago and that overall growth has been quite strong for the last two years, they said, the budget ought to be in much better shape.
 ''It's only good if you set the bar at $400 billion,'' said Richard Kogan, a senior economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research organization here. A $300 billion deficit, he said, was ''really bad if you remember that we've recovered from a recession and you think we are at or near full employment.''
 Mr. Bush has faced rising budget deficits almost from the moment he took office in 2001. Though the budget had a surplus of more than $100 billion that year, tax revenue plunged as the economy headed into a recession and as Mr. Bush increased military and related spending.
 Deficits shot up for each of the next three years, reaching $412 billion last year or, nearly 3.5 percent of the gross domestic product.
 Mr. Bush has pledged to cut the budget deficit by 2009 to about $260 billion, and that goal could be within future grasp. If current trends hold, the deficit could amount to less than 3 percent of the gross domestic product -- less than in many West European countries that have been hobbled by slow growth and the heavy cost of supporting social welfare programs.
 Democrats, expecting the Republicans to trumpet the good news, said on Tuesday that the long-term fiscal outlook remained almost as grim as before. 
 The immediate challenge is in the continuing costs of the war in Iraq, which are on track to cross the $200 billion level by the end of this year.
 A much bigger problem is the impending retirement of baby boomers, with the oldest in that group eligible for Social Security payments starting in 2008.
 Social Security's annual surpluses, which have been running around $150 billion a year, have been a major source of operating cash for the government. But those surpluses will start to decline before the end of the decade, and the program is expected to start running annual deficits in 2017.
 Mr. Bush has proposed cutting the growth in future benefits, and has also called for letting people divert some of their payroll taxes to private retirement accounts. House Republicans are pushing a separate proposal to use the Social Security surplus for financing private retirement accounts.
 Both proposals would send budget deficits soaring in the next few decades, though supporters say that the government would eventually recoup the money by reducing its benefit costs in the future.
 The biggest fiscal threat of all comes from Medicare, the government's health care program for the elderly. Health costs are growing much faster than the economy as a whole, partly because of new technologies and drugs and partly because of the aging population.
 ''Future presidents and future Congresses,'' said Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the ranking Democrat on the Budget Committee, ''are going to be faced with pressure to drastically cut Social Security and Medicare because of the decisions being made now.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Jump in Corporate Payments''The estimate of the federal budget deficit was reduced because of an unexpected increase in corporate tax revenue.SOURCE OF FEDERAL REVENUE: Individual incomeAMOUNT RECEIVED THROUGH JUNE, IN BILLIONS2004: $ 5962005: $ 701PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +17.6%SOURCE OF FEDERAL REVENUE: Corporate incomeAMOUNT RECEIVED THROUGH JUNE, IN BILLIONS2004: 1402005: 198PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +40.8SOURCE OF FEDERAL REVENUE: Social insuranceAMOUNT RECEIVED THROUGH JUNE, IN BILLIONS2004: 5562005: 594PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +6.9SOURCE OF FEDERAL REVENUE: OtherAMOUNT RECEIVED THROUGH JUNE, IN BILLIONS2004: 1082005: 111PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +3.2SOURCE OF FEDERAL REVENUE: TotalAMOUNT RECEIVED THROUGH JUNE, IN BILLIONS2004: $1,4002005: $1,604PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +14.6For fiscal years beginning in October. The 2005 figures are preliminary.(Source by Congressional Budget Office)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); MEDICARE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); BONDS (69%) Taxation; Election Issues; Medicine and Health; Medicare; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%) Congressional Budget Office

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%) United States; Iraq; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2005



271 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Founder of WorldCom Is Sentenced To 25 Years in Prison for $11 Billion Fraud
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of WorldCom whose name has become synonymous with corporate greed, was sentenced to 25 years in prison for orchestrating a record $11 billion fraud that toppled the telecommunications company he founded. [A1.]

His name is not on the law, but maybe it should be. Perhaps more than either Senator Paul S. Sarbanes or Representative Michael G. Oxley, Bernard J. Ebbers is responsible for the most far-reaching change in American securities laws since the Depression. Market Place. [C1.]

The Justice Department said it was dropping its effort to reinstate perjury charges against Richard M. Scrushy, the founder and former chief executive of the HealthSouth, who was acquitted last month in a fraud case. [C4.]

Former C.I.A. Director Sees Security Issue in Unocal Bid
The former director of central intelligence, R. James Woolsey, left, testified that a Chinese company's bid for Unocal should be seen as part of that government's strategy for energy security in competition with the United States and that the American government should consider stopping a takeover by the Chinese company. [C1.]

A sudden drop in China's oil consumption helped to push down the International Energy Agency's estimate of global demand this year. After growing 11 percent in 2003 and 15.4 percent last year, China's overall oil use declined 1 percent in the second quarter from the comparable quarter a year earlier, the agency said. [C5.]

Global oil markets are expected to remain under price pressure as demand picks up next year, an indication that even at $60 a barrel, oil prices are doing little to slow consumption, the International Energy Agency said. [C5.]

Computers and IPods Fuel Profit at Apple
Showing continued strong growth of its popular iPod digital music player and impressive PC sales in the United States, Apple Computer reported quarterly earnings that far outpaced the expectations of analysts. [C1.]

Advanced Micro Devices defied Wall Street's dire predictions and posted its first profitable quarter in nine months, as strong sales of its microprocessors offset pricing pressure in its troubled memory chip division. [C9.]

White House Projects a Decline in Budget Deficit
The White House predicted that the federal budget deficit will drop sharply this year and continue to shrink for the next four years. In a mid-year update on the budget, the administration said higher tax revenue would reduce this year's deficit to $333 billion, $79 billion less than in 2004 and $94 billion less than the administration had predicted in February. [C3.]

The trade deficit shrank in May, the government reported, but economists warned that the decline could not be sustained because it was caused by a drop in oil prices that has since reversed. [C3.]

Truck Drivers Name Wal-Mart in Bias Suit
Two black truck drivers have filed federal lawsuits against Wal-Mart in Arkansas, claiming that the company discriminated against them by denying them jobs because of their race. [C4.]

Executive Lays Out Plans to Revive Volkswagen
Wolfgang Bernhard, the No. 2 executive at Volkswagen, laid out his plans to revive a company hobbled by anemic sales, deteriorating quality, troubles in China and an unnaturally close relationship between the management and employee leaders. [C1.]

Senator Clinton Calls for Investigation of Video Game
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has asked for a federal investigation of the video game Grand Theft Auto after reports that anyone who used a free code download could unlock sexually graphic images hidden inside. [B5.]

F.D.A. Withdraws Painkiller From the Market
The Food and Drug Administration has taken a painkiller, Palladone, from the market based on evidence it could cause serious side effects, but an advisory panel said three widely used asthma medications should remain in use despite safety concerns about the painkillers, known as cox-2 inhibitors. [A20.]

The health care products maker Abbott Laboratories said that its second-quarter earnings rose 38 percent, helped by sales of diagnostic products and an arthritis drug. But Abbott repeated a forecast that its third-quarter results would fall short of expectations, and its shares fell 4 percent. [C2.]

Minneapolis Ad Agency Is Leaving New York Office
The Minneapolis agency Fallon Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, said that it would no longer operate its full-service, stand-alone office in New York as the two principals there, Anne Bologna and Ari Merkin, made plans to leave and open their own agency. Advertising, Stuart Elliott. [C16]

Stocks Gain on Bullish Report on I.B.M.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained for the fourth day in five after an analyst said I.B.M., the Dow's worst performer this year, was undervalued. The Dow rose 43.50 points, to 10,557.39; the Nasdaq increased 0.96, to 2,144.11; and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.08, to 1,223.29. [C10.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Abbott Laboratories' share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRISONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (84%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); CONSUMPTION (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (67%); RETAIL SALES (67%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (62%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (56%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); HLS (NYSE) (56%); AMD (NYSE) (52%); AMD (FRA) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (56%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (56%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (56%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



272 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

A Fifth Man Is Sought In the London Bombings
British investigators launched a worldwide manhunt for a man seen on videotape with the four suspected suicide bombers, an American official said. The four bombers are seen leaving for a London-bound train but the fifth man stays behind. A1

As evidence emerges on the identities of the suspected suicide bombers in London, residents in the suburb of Leeds are struggling to understand how and why these young men may have turned to extremism. A13

Iraqi Bomber Attacks Children
A suicide car bomber deliberately drove into a group of children who had crowded around American troops and detonated his payload, killing as many as 27 people, mostly children, Iraqi government and hospital officials said. A1

Iraqi civilians and police officers died at a rate of more than 800 a month between August and May, according to figures released by the Interior Ministry of Iraq. A1

West Bank and Gaza Sealed
Israel sealed off the West Bank and Gaza, reoccupied Tulkarm and declared the Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip a closed military zone in an energetic response to a Palestinian suicide bombing. A3

Driver Error in Pakistan Crash
Pakistani officials said the crash of three commuter trains, which killed 123 and injured 170, appeared to have been caused by an error on the part of one of the train's drivers. A8

Italy Conducts Terror Search
The Italian police searched 201 homes and detained 174 people suspected of being involved in militant Islamic groups, but announced no formal arrests. A12

Turkey Requests Extradition
Turkey announced it had requested that Iraq extradite two Turkish Islamists suspected of taking part in a 2003 terrorist attack in Istanbul. A10

NATIONAL A14-22

Los Angeles Police Admit Officer's Shot Killed Child
Facing growing criticism over a shootout on Sunday that left a gunman and his daughter dead, Los Angeles Police Chief William J. Bratton acknowledged that a shot from a police officer, not the gunman, killed the child. A14

Congress Revising Patriot Act
Lawmakers on three separate Congressional committees moved to impose restrictions on some of the more controversial elements of a domestic security law. A16

Life Sentence for Muslim Cleric
An influential Muslim scholar was ordered to spend the rest of his life in prison for inciting his young followers in Northern Virginia to wage war against the United States in the days after the Sept. 11 attacks. A21

Shuttle Launching Postponed
NASA postponed the flight of the space shuttle Discovery because of a malfunction in a fuel sensor that engineers thought they had fixed. A18

Withholding Judgment on Rove
President Bush said that he would withhold judgment on whether Karl Rove had identified an undercover C.I.A. operative in a conversation with a Time magazine reporter. A20

Court Shooting Prompts Firings
Four months after a prisoner escaped and killed three people in a Georgia courthouse, Sheriff Myron Freeman has begun proceedings to fire more than 10 deputies and officers whose actions have been criticized in the incident. A18

Grandparents Pitching In
Over the last decade, it has become familiar news that grandparents are rearing millions of American children whose parents are lost to drugs, mental illness or prison, but what has been less noticed is that even where the parents are present and functioning, grandparents are increasingly playing important roles in their grandchildren's lives. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

F.A.A. Called Slow to Act9 Years After T.W.A. Crash
Almost nine years after TWA Flight 800 exploded and crashed off Long Island, the Federal Aviation Administration has been accused of slowing to a crawl on changes needed to prevent a similar accident, including making fuel tanks less flammable. B3

Hospital Closings Predicted
A commission appointed by Governor George Pataki to restructure New York's hospital system is predicting closures, and also looking at consolidating areas of specialty to provide more expertise and prevent duplicate care, even if it means more travel for patients. B1

Big Union Backs Bloomberg
The union representing more than one third of the city's work force endorsed Mayor Michael Bloomberg's re-election bid, giving the Republican mayor crucial labor backing and signaling labor's disenchantment with the field of Democratic candidates. A1

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

THURSDAY STYLES G1-8

OBITUARIES C17

ARTS E1-10

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

N.H.L. Reaches Agreement
The National Hockey League and its players' union said they have agreed in principle on a six-year collective bargaining agreement. The tentative deal ends a damaging lockout that stretched 301 days and led N.H.L. Commisioner Gary Bettman to become the first leader of a sports league in North America to cancel a full season. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

WorldCom Chief Sentenced
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of WorldCom, was sentenced to 25 years in prison for orchestrating a record $11 billion fraud that toppled the telecommunications company. A1

Apple Earnings Climb
Fueled partly by iPod sales, Apple Computer reported that net income for its third quarter rose to $320 million from $61 million a year earlier. C1

Workers Wages Stagnate
The wages of typical workers are treading water, growing at about the same rate that inflation eats into their buying power, but the growth in the overall number of jobs are fueling the consumer spending that has supported economic growth. C1

Woolsey's Unocal Testimony
R. James Woolsey, former director of central intelligence, testified in a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee that a Chinese company's bid for Unocal should be seen as part of China's strategy for energy security in competition with the United States. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Security loses, pork wins; Srebrenica, an obligation unfulfilled; Francis X. Clines on city life.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E4
Weather B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SPACECRAFT (88%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TRAINS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); SUBURBS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); US PATRIOT ACT (69%); RELIGION (67%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (66%); PRISONS (65%); SENTENCING (65%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%); HOSPITALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); KARL ROVE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



273 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Financially Set, Grandparents Help Keep Families Afloat, Too

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
When he got home from a three-day school camping trip last winter, Schuyler Duffy, a 10th grader at Friends Seminary, told his parents he had had a fantastic time and thanked them for sending him to that Manhattan private school. 
 They reminded him that it was his grandparents who deserved the thanks. 
 ''We want Schuyler to appreciate that if my dad weren't paying the tuition, we probably wouldn't have been able to swing it,'' said Schuyler's mother, Christine Wade.
 Schuyler's grandparents, who live in Oakland, Calif., cushion their grandson's life in other ways, too, paying for his summer French program in Nova Scotia and helping with the purchase of an apartment when his family was evicted from a rent-stabilized apartment in Tribeca. 
 It has become familiar news that grandparents are rearing millions of American children whose parents are lost to drugs, mental illness or prison. What has been less noticed -- and less studied -- is that even where the parents are present and functioning, grandparents play important roles in their grandchildren's lives. Some, like Ms. Wade's parents, cover the costs for tuition and real estate down payments. Others pay for summer camps, family vacations and braces. And some, with more young mothers working, care for the grandchildren a day a week or more. 
 For many American families, intergenerational help is now moving in a new direction. ''Thirty, 40 years ago, the money went up: you helped your grandparents, you bought them this or that, they might have moved in with you,'' said Timothy M. Smeeding, a professor of public policy at the Maxwell School of Syracuse University. ''But now, all the money comes down. Most elderly people today are better off than they thought they would be, with the booming stock market of the 1990's, the rising value of homes and the changes in Social Security. Meanwhile, their kids are worse off than they thought they would be. So grandparents help out.'' 
 Vern Bengtson, a sociologist and gerontologist at the University of Southern California, says the growing involvement of grandparents has been just as dramatic a change in American family life as the unraveling of the nuclear family. While sociologists in recent decades have bemoaned the high divorce rate and the percentage of children born to single mothers, Professor Bengtson said, they have for the most part overlooked the emergence of grandparents as an important resource for family support and stability. 
 ''For many Americans, multigenerational bonds are becoming more important than nuclear family ties for well-being and support over the course of their lives,'' he said. 
 There is, of course, nothing new about grandparents helping to support their children's families; one way or another, grandparents have always pitched in. But as demographic changes have reshaped life paths both for older people and their adult children, the influence of grandparents has expanded. 
 Perhaps because American culture places such emphasis on independence, many people express discomfort about discussing intergenerational help given or received. In dozens of interviews, grandparents said they did not want their names used because they worried that it would embarrass their children or did not want their grandchildren to know what they were paying for. 
 ''You'll have to ask my son whether he's comfortable having this in the newspaper,'' a Manhattan grandmother said. 
 That son said no; like many others in the middle generation, he did not want it known that he was not his family's sole support. 
 The near-taboo on the subject, Professor Bengtson said, indicates a cultural lag, with the prevailing norms and attitudes trailing far behind what is actually going on. 
 The very presence of grandparents in their grandchildren's lives is far more common than it used to be. The likelihood that a 20-year-old these days will have a living grandmother (91 percent) is higher than the likelihood that a 20-year-old in 1900 had a living mother (83 percent), according to an analysis by Peter R. Uhlenberg, a professor at the University of North Carolina. And, while 40 years ago, 29 percent of Americans over 65 lived below the poverty line, by 2003 poverty among the elderly had declined by nearly two-thirds. 
 At the same time, this generation of 20- and 30-somethings are taking longer to finish their education and reach self-sufficiency. ''Our culture has changed so that education is priced so high, and lasts so long, that this phenomenon of economic dependency lasts much longer than it used to,'' said Professor Bengtson, himself a grandfather who goes to Santa Barbara each week to spend a day or two with his year-old granddaughter, Zoe Paloma Lozano. 
 Professor Bengtson has measured the growing involvement of grandparents with the college students he teaches. For 20 years, he has been giving his students a questionnaire on how they are financing college; in just the last few years, grandparents' contributions have displaced jobs and borrowing and moved into third place, after parental help and scholarships. 
 With tuition edging toward $30,000 a year, many Manhattan private schools have also noticed an increase in support from grandparents. At Trevor Day School, Donald D. Mordecai, assistant head for finance and operations, said the school was seeing more checks from grandparents in recent years. 
 ''I would say anecdotally that over the last three years, as the tuition's gone up, we began to see more grandparents sending in the checks,'' Mr. Mordecai said. ''I'd guess that maybe 15 to 20 percent of the kids, especially the younger ones, have tuition paid by their grandparents.'' 
 For wealthy grandparents, tuition payments can be a good estate-planning device. Under so-called 529 plans, Martin L. Greenberg, an accountant at Rosen, Seymour, Shapss, Martin & Company, said, a grandparent could contribute $55,000 toward a grandchild's college tuition without triggering any gift tax. And private-school tuition paid directly to the school does not count as a gift. 
 ''My father pays tuition for the girls, and I'm just grateful beyond belief,'' said Sunny Bates, who has one daughter at the Dalton School in Manhattan and another joining her there this year. ''I think that's incredibly common. You have all these people who grew up in New York when it wasn't so ridiculously expensive, and are now in careers in the arts, or the nonprofits, that don't pay very much, and they couldn't possibly give their children the kind of life they had without some help.'' 
 In both older generations, a few of those interviewed confessed an unhappy undercurrent to their intergenerational help. A few grandparents admitted feeling that their continuing financial help had spoiled their children and left them with an unseemly sense of entitlement. 
 ''I'm hearing a little more from my grandson these days, and I know it's because they're about to ask me to pay his college tuition,'' said one Manhattan grandmother, wearily. ''I'll do it, like I've always done everything for them. But I don't think it's been so good for them.'' 
 And some adult children can feel infringed on, when the grandmother who comes to care for the baby two days a week criticizes the mother's child-rearing, or the grandparents who make the down payment offer forceful suggestions about decorating the apartment. 
 ''I take the money, I'm grateful, but I also feel like it keeps me under their thumb in a way that doesn't feel good,'' said one woman whose in-laws pay for her 10-year-old's private school tuition, camp, and tutoring. ''And I think it makes it harder to say no when they ask us to visit or do things with them. It's somehow like they're calling the shots in our lives.''
 Still, in many families, grandparents are the secret ingredient that make the difference between a life of struggle and one of relative ease. 
 In a posting last year on the Web site of the Berkeley Parents Network, which does not include names, one mother asked why her own husband's salary of $80,000 did not seem to be enough to pay for the kind of life her neighbors had. ''Where are you getting all this money??'' she asked. 
 ''Interesting question and one I have had myself many, many times,'' said one of the responses. ''The way everyone I know is 'doing it' (nice cars, expensive houses, vacations, 'best' schools, etc.) is with money from their parents and grandparents. Seriously. Those down payments come from grandma and grandpa, and so does private school for the kids. Once I realized that (because friends let it 'slip') it all started to make more sense to me.'' 
 In New York City, Sid Whelan and Lisa Waller and their daughters, Genevieve, 6, and Gabrielle, 2, get different kinds of help from the two sets of grandparents. 
 Ms. Waller's parents, George and Lula Nunley, moved to New York from Chicago not long after Genevieve was born. At first, the Nunleys had their own apartment, in the same building as the Whelan/Waller family. But there was a constant flow between the apartments, so Mr. Whelan, a real estate agent and musician, suggested that they buy a Harlem townhouse big enough for all of them. 
 Mr. Whelan's parents, who are divorced, helped with the purchase. 
 ''My dad gave us a bridge loan, and my mom gave us an interest-only loan,'' Mr. Whelan said. ''They've helped with tuition and music lessons too.'' Ms. Waller's parents now live on the top floor of the townhouse.
 ''Obviously in the back of my head, I think I should be able to do it all on my own,'' Mr. Whelan said, ''and at times I do feel guilty for getting so much help. But at the same time, I think it's good that the kids know their grandparents and know what they're doing for them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hanna and Vern Bengtson on a beach outing in Santa Barbara, Calif., with their granddaughter, Zoe Paloma Lozano, whom they visit weekly. (Photo by Ana Elisa Fuentes for The New York Times)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); CAMPING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); SOCIOLOGY (87%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); EVICTION (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); TRENDS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); GERONTOLOGY (67%); AGING (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%) Families and Family Life; Children and Youth; Life Styles ; Grandparents; Social Conditions and Trends; Families and Family Life

PERSON: Tamar Lewin; Christine Wade; Vern Bengtson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



274 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Broad Changes Sought to Solve Hospital Crisis

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
A commission created by New York State to reorganize its hospital system took a broad view of its mandate yesterday at its first meeting, with its chairman saying that simply closing down hospitals would not be enough to solve the current financial crisis.
 Although the commission will almost certainly recommend widespread closings, the chairman, Stephen Berger, said it would also look at consolidating areas of specialty in certain hospitals to provide more expertise and to prevent duplication of care, even if doing so means more travel for patients. In the past, health officials have tried to confine certain procedures like organ transplants to specific hospitals, but a variety of issues, including patient demand, made that goal hard to achieve.
He said the panel would also consider changing the way hospitals are reimbursed by public and private insurance programs, hoping to even out the wide variations in the amounts paid for specific procedures. 
 ''I assume we will have hospital closings,'' Mr. Berger said in an interview. ''But the answer is not just closing institutions. It is restructuring the delivery of health care.'' 
 Mr. Berger, a former executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said the panel will look broadly at the general structure of hospitals, suggesting that not every function needs to be available under a single roof. Instead, he said, the responsibilities of some hospitals could be narrowed into ambulatory care centers or other roles.
 The commission was established to make hard choices for the hospital system, which has been plagued by financial difficulties. Much like a federal commission on the closing of military bases, it is intended to recommend which hospitals are no longer necessary, a politically charged task that lawmakers have traditionally been loath to undertake. It will also examine nursing home finances.
 The recommendations are to be made by December 2006. Gov. George E. Pataki, who appointed the majority of the commission, and the Legislature would have to approve the proposals before they could become law. Suggestions that are accepted are supposed to be carried out by 2008.
 Any recommendations will be made only after more than a year of meetings and studies. Since the hospital industry is the state's largest business, significant proposals are likely to be bitterly disputed.
 If the commission does take on some of the underlying causes of the financial crisis New York's hospitals find themselves in, the results could drastically change the way health care is delivered.
 Mr. Berger is no stranger to dealing with complicated and troubled financial institutions. During the height of New York's financial crisis in 1976 and 1977, he was responsible for supervising the city's budget and helped devise a plan to get the city back into the credit markets.
 There has been skepticism about the commission's goals and its ability to change the system. Some politicians and advocates for the poor and uninsured have expressed concern that the commission will ultimately eviscerate hospitals in financially troubled sections of the state and New York City. 
 Assemblyman Richard N. Gottfried, a Manhattan Democrat and chairman of the Health Committee, was actively involved in setting up the commission but said he doubted it would tackle the system's underlying problems. ''I don't think they see those issues as being on their agenda,'' he said, predicting the group would primarily help to close unnecessary hospitals.
 Judy Wessler, the director of the Commission on the Public's Health System, an advocacy group, said she was nervous about the state commission's intentions.
 At the commission's meeting yesterday in Harlem, she watched as its members discussed the four large books of data they had been given by the Health Department. When one panelist explained that only one of the thousands of pages presented dealt with the large number of uninsured people in the state, she scoffed. ''This is not about people,'' she said.
 But no one doubts that the industry is in crisis. Last week, the state's largest Catholic hospital system, Saint Vincent, sought bankruptcy protection after years of heavy losses. In a rare sign of unity, politicians, the health care unions and the industry were all in agreement on the need to form a commission and possibly close hospitals. Because of that agreement, the commission has been given wide latitude in the areas it can delve into.
 The state also has a large pot of cash available to make its recommendations reality. This year's state budget has $1 billion set aside to reorganize health care facilities. Governor Pataki is also hoping to receive $1.5 billion more from the federal government for the same purpose.
 As a result, many in the field say they believe the commission's work could be a defining moment.
 ''There is no single body that we have seen of recent vintage that has been dedicated to a holistic view of the health care system,'' said Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. ''This is a real opportunity to tackle some of those thorny issues that have not been addressed.''
 But he cautioned that if it was not careful, the commission could do more harm than good. ''If you have incomplete knowledge, you will not only have incomplete answers, you will have wrong answers,'' he said.
 Dennis Whalen, executive deputy commissioner of the State Health Department, said it had been decades since the state appointed an independent body with such broad reach. He compared it to the Folsom commission, appointed in the 1960's by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. That commission's work led to major changes in hospital financing, including one that put hospitals under the Health Department's authority.
 ''This commission will be dealing with just as an important a set of issues,'' he said in an interview.
 One of the most important and complex areas to be addressed by the panel involves the state formulas under which hospitals are reimbursed for their work by public and private insurance. Mr. Berger called the reimbursement system ''cockeyed,'' saying it made no sense for hospitals to receive $30,000 for a procedure that used to be rare but is now common, while other common medical problems that send people to emergency rooms bring minimal reimbursements.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Berger, the chairman of a commission to reorganize New York State's troubled hospital system. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); NURSING HOMES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (70%); POLITICS (68%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LEGISLATION (64%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: Marc Santora; Stephen Berger; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



275 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; How Long Can Workers Tread Water?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Income Gains Go Mostly to the Affluent

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
James Barnes, a $350-a-week guard at an office building on Madison Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, has not had a raise in years. But his income just jumped sharply: Three months ago, he took on a newspaper delivery route from 3 a.m. to 7 a.m., which pulls in an extra $235 a week. 
 Mr. Barnes fits snugly into the pattern of America's current economic expansion. The wages of typical workers are treading water, growing roughly at the same rate that inflation eats into their buying power. Last week, the Labor Department reported that average wages for production and nonsupervisory workers in the private sector, about 75 percent of the labor force, reached $16.06 an hour in June, just 2.7 percent above the level a year ago.
Yet in terms of the aggregate effect on the total economy, that statistic does not seem to matter much. Workers' wages may be barely keeping up, but Americans' average incomes are growing briskly -- in part, because of growth in the overall number of jobs, including Mr. Barnes's extra one. But it also reflects other forms of income, flowing mostly to the more affluent, which are fueling the consumer spending that has provided a crucial pillar of support for economic growth over the last three years. 
 ''You have a lower half of the wage distribution in the United States that has not experienced any income gains for a long time now,'' said Barry P. Bosworth, an economist at the liberal-leaning Brookings Institution. ''But from a macro perspective this doesn't have much impact.''
 Even as the average worker's wages are stuck in neutral, corporate profits, professionals' incomes, gains from investments and executive compensation -- the kind that frequently comes in the form of stock options -- are all surging, supporting healthy gains in the economy. 
 ''Profit has roughly doubled in the last year on revenue growth of about 40 percent,'' said Alex Mann, co-owner of Clicktime.com, a company in San Francisco that sells time-sheet applications over the Internet. ''The top-line growth was very satisfying. There's been very strong growth in the amount left for compensation of the owners and for profits.''
 To be sure, income growth has slowed from its torrid pace -- year-on-year growth of real disposable income decelerated to 3.7 percent in the first quarter of 2005, from 4.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004, which enjoyed a jolt from Microsoft's $3 billion dividend payout.
 But that is still plenty strong enough to support substantial output growth, which is expected to advance about 3.5 percent this year, after accounting for inflation. The income gains have been powerful enough to overcome the headwind of surging oil prices, which have pushed gasoline to over $2.25 a gallon.
 Surging incomes are also helping the federal government reduce the budget deficit. Federal tax receipts in the first nine months of the current fiscal year, which began last October, reached $1.6 trillion, 15 percent more than in the fiscal 2004 period.
 And there are scant signs that spending is on the wane. Mr. Mann just bought an iPod. With the prospect of more take-home pay, even Mr. Barnes joined the shopping crowds, spending his income-tax refund on a secondhand Dodge Caravan minivan. ''It's good because I enjoy it,'' Mr. Barnes said, ''but I need it for my second job.''
 Last month, retailers recorded the most robust sales increases in more than a year. Wal-Mart Stores reported that sales grew 4.5 percent at stores open at least a year, the fastest in 13 months; over all, its sales were up 11 percent. Moving to the upscale end, sales at Neiman Marcus increased more than 9 percent.
 Similar jumps at Target and J.C. Penney prompted the companies to raise quarterly profit forecasts.
 The skewed nature of the income growth comes as little surprise to most economists. Reeling from collapsing profits, businesses emerged from the economy's slump in 2001 with a pronounced aversion to part with money, instituting spending and hiring freezes and keeping them in place even as demand recovered. 
 These cost controls helped propel a burst of productivity growth and profitability. Corporate profits jumped 35 percent from 2002 to 2004, as increases in revenue dropped unhindered to companies' bottom lines. Income from workers' compensation, including wages and benefits, grew 9.5 percent. 
 In the first quarter of 2005 profits grew a further 15 percent, compared with the period last year, twice the pace of compensation for employees. And what growth there has been in compensation for workers has mostly concentrated at the top. At the bottom end, income growth has mainly come from an increase in employment -- not better wages.
 Robert E. Mellman, an economist at J.P. Morgan, noted that the jumps recorded in wage income in the last quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of this year were principally from a flurry of exercised stock options. ''It was profit-related pay, a symptom of high profits,'' Mr. Mellman said.
 This skewed pattern of income growth readjusted the distribution of the national pie. After falling to a trough of 8.5 percent in 2001, corporate profits' share of national income soared to 12.3 percent in the first quarter of this year, the highest level since the mid-1960's. The share of income accruing to workers' compensation, on the other hand, fell from 66.2 percent in 2001 to 63.9 percent in the first quarter of 2005.
 Yet there are signs that the squeeze on labor might be easing as unemployment has fallen to 5 percent and the job market has tightened, nudging the pendulum back in workers' favor and giving them a chance to claw back some income gains. ''At the margin, labor could do a little better,'' Mr. Mellman said.
 In its latest survey on compensation trends, the consultant Hewitt Associates found that companies' budgets for salary increases for nonexecutive workers should grow slightly this year, after four years of decline. Only 1 percent of companies plan to maintain salary freezes this year, from 8 percent two years ago.
 And according to a study by Elise Gould, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a left-leaning research institute in Washington, jobs in higher-wage industries are growing faster than jobs in low-wage businesses for the first time since the summer of 2001. 
 Workers themselves are more optimistic about their job prospects than they have been for some time. 
 In June, the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index showed a 12-point jump in confidence among families earning less than $50,000 a year, the biggest jump in at least three years. The percentage of consumers saying jobs are ''plentiful'' in the survey rose to the same level as those saying jobs were ''hard to get'' for the first time since 2002.
 Yet this peppering of data notwithstanding, economists are not too sanguine about the immediate prospects for income growth on the bottom rungs of the wage scale. ''The job market is slowly tightening,'' said Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute. ''We are wringing out the slack. But we're only six months into a process that could take a year and a half.''
 At local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union -- which covers janitors and other building workers in several Northeast states -- the president, Mike Fishman, is not optimistic either. ''In our industry we don't see any pressure on wages going up,'' he said. ''Nobody is rushing to the table with money.''
 With increasing competition from cheap labor in poor countries, falling unemployment in the United States is not giving American workers much leverage to increase their slice ofthe income pie, said Robert J. Barbera of ITG/Hoenig in Rye Brook, N.Y. ''I expect labor's share to still be under pressure,'' he said.
 But that might not matter, macroeconomically speaking. Mr. Bosworth at Brookings noted that there was no evidence that incomes at the bottom of the distribution must grow to keep spending afloat. ''The rich are willing to consume,'' he said.
 And, Mr. Barbera pointed out, across the broad range of variables that underpin economic growth, ''it doesn't get any better.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Barnes, a security guard in Manhattan, has taken on a second job delivering newspapers. (Photo by Stephen Chernin for The New York Times)Graph: ''Work More To Make More''While wages for ordinary workers are barely keeping up with inflation, overall incomes are up sharply because of a growing number of jobs and higher pay among the upper ranks.Graph tracks Year-over-year changes for Average hourly wages for production and nonsupervisory workers, monthly+ and Employee compensation (wages and benefits), quarterly* since 2003.*At annual rates +Seasonally adjusted(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DIVIDENDS (68%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Productivity; United States Economy; Income; Unemployment; Labor; Labor

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



276 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Rebound Slower This Time, Study Says

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, July 13 

 BODY:
New Jersey has the nation's highest median household income and second-highest per capita income, and its unemployment rate has been well below the national average in the current economic recovery. But the state has nevertheless produced far fewer jobs over the last three years than in past economic recoveries, according to a new Rutgers University study.
 Since the recovery began in July 2002, the state has posted an average annual increase of 17,800 private sector jobs, according to the study, ''Anatomy of a Recovery: A New Jersey Report Card,'' by the university's Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy. 
 But that figure is substantially lower than the 50,000 jobs that were added annually during the economic recovery of 1992 to 1995, and is but a fraction of the 102,900 jobs added each year to the private sector during the recovery of 1982 to 1985. The study was based on figures from April 2002 to December 2004.
 James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School and one of the principal authors of the study, said the findings should not be seen as clouds dimming the state's relatively positive economic performance in the current recovery. But they may signal some thunderheads on the distant horizon.
 ''Despite the recent slow growth, New Jersey's economy still remains at the leading edge,'' the study said. ''But there is a question of whether the state's current prosperity is obscuring the start of long term slippage. The conventional wisdom of the past regarding economic assumptions may now be history.''
 With the nation's ninth-largest state economy, New Jersey ranked only 21st in the number of private sector jobs added in 2004, well behind its larger neighbors, New York and Pennsylvania. Mr. Hughes noted that in previous recoveries New Jersey tended to proportionately outperform those states. But for 2004, New York ranked fifth nationally in new private sector jobs and Pennsylvania ranked 10th. Connecticut ranked 25th, according to the study.
 A spokesman for the state's Department of Labor and Workforce Development said that the agency did not dispute the study's figures, but that it saw signs in the first months of 2005 that job growth for the year could reach 45,000 to 50,000 if current trends continue, bringing it in line with past recoveries.
 ''We keep working on our strengths, which are our highly trained work force and our location, so we are not a captive to the national economy,'' said Kevin Smith, the spokesman.
 Mr. Hughes speculated that the state's comparatively weak job growth performance may reflect uncertainties in the pharmaceutical industry and steep downturns in the wired -- as opposed to wireless -- telecommunications industries, bedrocks of the state's economy.
 Another indication of the slower growth, he said, could be seen in office vacancy rates in the state in the first quarter of 2005. Vacancy rates were at 25 percent, he said, compared with 10 percent at the peak of the last recovery in 2000. The highest office space vacancy rate in the state was 38 percent, in Somerset County along a corridor once dominated by Lucent, AT&T and their suppliers and support businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RANKINGS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (60%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%) Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



277 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: From China, Some Relief on Oil Demand 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: PARIS, July 13 

 BODY:
A sudden and mysterious drop in China's oil consumption helped to push down the International Energy Agency's estimate on Wednesday of global demand for this year. 
 After growing 11 percent in 2003 and 15.4 percent last year, China's overall oil use declined 1 percent in the second quarter from the comparable quarter a year earlier, the agency said.
 The drop is the latest in a series of unclear and often conflicting indications about whether the Chinese economy is still growing strongly. Top officials of the agency said in interviews they believed that the decline was temporary and that they expected Chinese demand to rebound in the second half of the year, but added that world oil prices could take a heavy blow if Chinese use did not increase. 
 The International Energy Agency, supported by the governments of the world's leading consuming nations, has recently become known for warning that the world does not have enough oil and calling for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to push its member countries to increase their output. But William C. Ramsay, the agency's deputy executive director, said Wednesday that there were signs that worldwide production capacity was starting to move ahead of demand for the year, and he expressed surprise that oil prices had nonetheless stayed high.
 ''There are not the conditions out there right now that should lead to these kinds of prices,'' he said in an interview in his office here.
 The international oil market has gotten out of line with the availability of oil, he said, adding: ''It gets in one of these bullish moods and it has to be dynamited out of it. The fundamentals are not disquieting.''
 While many traders have expressed concern about China's announcement a week ago that it was close to completing the first of three oil tank farms for a strategic reserve, Mr. Ramsay said he doubted that Chinese officials would opt to fill the reserve quickly as long as oil remained around $60 a barrel. [In New York on Wednesday, oil for August delivery declined 61 cents, settling at $60.01 a barrel.]
 China's strong demand for energy has helped push Cnooc, one of its leading oil companies, to make an $18.5 billion proposal to acquire Unocal of California.
 Officials of the International Energy Agency said there were four possible explanations for China's drop in oil demand in the second quarter, the most probable being that this was a temporary decrease. The most likely cause, said Fatih Birol, the agency's chief economist and head of economic analysis, was that China had not been allowing the domestic price of electricity and many refined products, like gasoline and diesel fuel, to rise nearly as quickly as world prices. This has caused power-generating concerns and service stations to sell less electricity, and less gasoline and diesel fuel, so as to limit their losses.
 Many Chinese power stations have stopped burning fuel oil to produce electricity because the prices they are allowed to charge per kilowatt are not high enough to cover the cost of importing fuel. Chinese refiners have been selling part of their output overseas at higher prices than they can get in the highly regulated domestic market -- where gasoline, for example, now sells for $1.63 a gallon.
 China's consumption of fuel, a portion of overall oil consumption, plunged 19 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, said Jeff Brown, an oil-demand analyst here, while growth in refined fuel consumption slowed to a crawl.
 Mr. Birol said that artificial energy shortages caused by distorted prices were the most likely basis for the curtailed availability of fuel, especially diesel.
 But while diesel-fuel shortages and lines of trucks at empty service stations were a visible problem in China in April, they were not evident during trips over the last three weeks through southern China and to Beijing, and there has been little talk of continuing shortages in news media on the mainland or in Hong Kong.
 When told this, Mr. Birol said there had been a vigorous debate in the last two days within the International Energy Agency over how to explain the decline in Chinese consumption, and he acknowledged that other, longer-term explanations were possible.
 These include the possibility that the overall Chinese economy is starting to slow, that China is generating more of its electricity from coal instead of oil, and that China is improving energy conservation in response to high prices.
 Economic statistics have been contradictory. Exports are still growing rapidly. But energy-intensive production of steel, cement and other construction material has started to slow as the government cracked down on real estate speculation.
 In the last year, China has considerably expanded the production capacity of its coal mines and, just as important, the capacity of its railroad system to haul coal to markets. It has also exhorted businesses and households to use less energy, through steps like setting thermostats higher so air-conditioning systems do not have to work as hard.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Demand for gasoline in places like a Costco station in Illinois is part of the world equation on oil availability. And demand in China, an increasingly avid user of oil, has just declined over a three-month period. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); TRENDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DIVESTITURES (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Shortages; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (93%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%) China National Offshore Oil Corp; Unocal Corp; International Energy Agency

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



278 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Research Changes Ideas About Children and Work

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
WHEN Americans think about child labor in poor countries, they rarely picture girls fetching water or boys tending livestock. Yet most of the 211 million children, ages 5 to 14, who work worldwide are not in factories. They are working in agriculture -- from 92 percent in Vietnam to 63 percent in Guatemala -- and most are not paid directly.
 ''Contrary to popular perception in high-income countries, most working children are employed by their parents rather than in manufacturing establishments or other forms of wage employment,'' two Dartmouth economists, Eric V. Edmonds and Nina Pavcnik, wrote in ''Child Labor in the Global Economy,'' published in the Winter 2005 Journal of Economic Perspectives. 
Their article surveys what is known about child labor. Research over the past several years, by these economists and others, has begun to erode some popular beliefs about why children work, what they do and when they are likely to leave work for school.
 When he started working on child labor issues six years ago, Professor Edmonds said in an interview, ''the conventional view was that child labor really wasn't about poverty.'' Children's work, many policy makers believed, ''reflected perhaps parental callousness or a lack of education for parents about the benefits of educating your child.'' So policies to curb child labor focused on educating parents about why their children should not work and banning children's employment to remove the temptation.
 Recent research, however, casts doubt on the cultural explanation. ''In every context that I've looked at things, child labor seems to be almost entirely about poverty. I wouldn't say it's only about poverty, but it's got a lot to do with poverty,'' Professor Edmonds said.
 As families' incomes increase, children tend to stop working and, where schools are available, they go to school. If family incomes drop, children are more likely to return to work.
 Some of the best data, and the most noteworthy results, come from Vietnam, which tracked about 3,000 households from 1993 to 1998. This was a period of rapid economic growth, in which gross domestic product rose about 9 percent a year.
 In a paper published in the Winter 2005 Journal of Human Resources, ''Does Child Labor Decline With Improving Economic Status?,'' Professor Edmonds found that child labor dropped by nearly 30 percent over this five-year period. Rising incomes explain about 60 percent of that shift.
 The effects were greatest for families escaping poverty. For those who crossed the official poverty line, earning enough to pay for adequate food and basic necessities, higher incomes accounted for 80 percent of the drop in child labor. In 1993, 58 percent of the population fell below the poverty line, compared with 33 percent five years later.
 ''Child labor does not appear to vary with per capita expenditure until households can meet their food needs, and it then declines dramatically,'' Professor Edmonds wrote. (His articles may be downloaded at www.dartmouth.edu/eedmonds.) 
 During this same period, Vietnam repealed its policy against exporting rice. That opened a big new market for Vietnamese farmers -- the country went from almost no exports to being one of the world's top rice exporters -- and significantly raised the price of rice.
 This change, along with the family survey data, allowed Professors Edmonds and Pavcnik to examine what happens when household incomes rise but children's labor also becomes more valuable. Their paper, ''The Effect of Trade Liberalization on Child Labor,'' was published in the March 2005 Journal of International Economics.
 In the interview, Professor Edmonds said he expected that the booming market for rice would lead more children to work in agriculture, if only on their own families' farms, because the value of their labor had risen substantially. But that was not what happened.
 ''Instead, it looks like what households did was, with rising income, they purchased substitutes for child labor. They used more fertilizers. There was more mechanization, more purchasing of tools,'' he said, adding, ''It was the opposite of what I expected to find coming in.''
 For the minority of Vietnamese families who buy more rice than they produce, rising prices mean effectively lower incomes. That might lead to children's working to compensate. The economists did not find a statistically significant change for these families, however.
 The results from Vietnam suggest that families do not want their children to work. Parents pull their children out of work when they can afford to, even when the wages children could earn are rising. Poverty, not culture, appears to be the fundamental problem.
 Rather than simply banning child labor, then, policy makers should concentrate on alleviating poverty. That includes not only encouraging economic growth but also improving access to schools and to credit markets. Borrowing could allow families to buy equipment to substitute for child labor, to weather short-term declines in income and to pay school fees. (Professor Edmonds examines a striking example of the credit problem in ''Child Labor and Schooling Responses to Anticipated Income in South Africa,'' forthcoming in The Journal of Development Economics.)
 ''Most child labor policy even today is directed at trying to get kids into unemployment -- to limit working opportunities for kids,'' he said in the interview. But, ''if households are already in a situation where they don't want their children to be working, but they're forced to because of their circumstance, taking additional steps to prevent the kids from working is punishing the poorest for being poor.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD LABOR (92%); CHILDREN (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); POVERTY RATES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRENDS (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FARM LABOR (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Child Labor 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (83%) Dartmouth College

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Eric V (Prof) Edmonds; Nina Pavcnik

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



279 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; BOMBINGS IN LONDON: SECURITY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Transit Agencies Turn to Cameras in Terror Fight, but Systems Vary in Effectiveness

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
In San Francisco and Washington, subway stations and platforms are under constant surveillance by closed-circuit television cameras. New Jersey Transit uses computer software that automatically alerts the police when an unattended package shows up on video monitors. The light-rail system in Houston plans to enable its onboard security cameras to transmit live images, wirelessly, to police cruisers.
 In New York City, which has the largest mass transit system in the United States and is considered the country's most likely target for a terrorist attack, use of cameras is sporadic and not well coordinated. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority uses 5,723 cameras throughout its network, but they are not distributed uniformly; there are none, for instance, in close to half of the city's 468 subway stations. 
 Since the 1970's, transit agencies across the world have tried, first as a deterrent to combat vandalism, then with greater urgency after terror threats, to prevent and investigate crimes using electronic surveillance. In the United States, these efforts have produced a hodgepodge of systems, some advanced and others barely existent.
 The need for, and usefulness of, surveillance was given fresh significance after the bombings in London last week, and in particular with the announcement on Tuesday that cameras had evidently helped to identify likely suspects, including at least one presumed suicide bomber.
 But while cameras were evidently critical in this investigative breakthrough, the London attack also underscored their limitations: the cameras, of course, could not and did not prevent the explosions. Similarly, video cameras captured some of the movements of the Sept. 11 hijackers, but those images chiefly served, in the aftermath of the attacks, as a kind of eerie visual diary.
 Officials in London, which has one of the most extensive surveillance networks in the world, believed that by making cameras omnipresent they would deter bombers, particularly the Irish Republican Army.
 ''It obviously does not deter suicide bombers,'' said Brian M. Jenkins, a consultant at the RAND Corporation, a policy research organization, ''but it did have a measurable effect on the I.R.A.'s campaign.''
 But the proliferation of cameras came with practical problems, too.
 ''Unless you have thousands of people watching thousands of cameras, you don't have the same effect as with actual police presence,'' Mr. Jenkins said.
 In fact, the whole notion of using cameras to fight crime, including terrorism, inside the world's transportation networks is fraught with financial and technological challenges.
 The traditional model of surveillance cameras -- a bank of monitors with fuzzy black-and-white images, under a person's inattentive gaze -- is being replaced by digital video recorders that transmit, record and store data over fiber-optic or wireless networks. But the new software and wireless enhancements mean that a single custom-built camera can cost over $10,000 to acquire, install and maintain.
 Nonetheless, the use of video surveillance has already become a major thrust of transit security programs in the United States.
 ''The technology now allows a very quick replay and return to specific points in time, and much better quality in terms of the resolution of images,'' said Greg Hull, director of operations safety and security at the American Public Transportation Association.
 The National Transit Institute, a federally funded training and research organization at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., has studied the new technologies, but Christopher A. Kozub, the associate director for safety and security programs, cautioned that few have been proved to be fail-safe.
 ''The application of smart technology is only in its embryonic stages,'' he said. ''The potential is there, but variables like temperature conditions, the passenger environment and rush-hour influxes are all very hard to program into these systems.''
 Mr. Hull and Mr. Kozub said that no one has rigorously studied the use of cameras by transit agencies across the world. In the United States, transit agencies vary widely in their use of cameras. In San Francisco, the Bay Area Rapid Transit, which opened in 1972, has cameras in all 43 stations, but the system has its limits. Station agents on duty are responsible for monitoring the video screens for their stations, and only some of the stations record and save images.
 In the past decade, vandalism plummeted after cameras were installed in many of BART's 669 cars. ''We want to enhance them to be all digital, with wireless capability, but we're not there yet,'' said the agency's police chief, Gary Gee, who added that upgrading surveillance systems is a major part of the $200 million antiterror wish list that the agency compiled after Sept. 11.
 New Jersey Transit, the largest statewide transit agency in the country, uses more than 1,400 cameras across its 11 commuter rail lines, 3 light-rail lines and 240 bus routes. The agency has begun connecting its cameras to computers that can automatically detect suspicious activity, using a complex algorithm.
 ''Any abnormality that differentiates from the algorithm will set off an alarm or a pager, or give a call to whoever is responsible for that camera,'' said the agency's police chief, Joseph C. Bober.
 The system can also be used to avoid the cautionary evacuations that have become the norm since Sept. 11. One day last summer, for example, when a suspicious bag was identified at Pennsylvania Station in New York, the agency quickly reviewed recorded images and determined that it had inadvertently been left behind by an employee.
 In Houston, the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County, Tex., opened a 7.5-mile light-rail line, its first, in January 2004. All 17 stations and 18 cars were equipped with cameras, but the agency is now testing enhancements that would allow the cameras to transmit live images wirelessly to police cruisers and law enforcement centers.
 In New York City there are 2,328 cameras in 276 stations, but none on the 6,182 subway cars, although the newest ones were built to accommodate them.


GRAPHIC: Photo: At the 50th Street station of the D and M lines in Brooklyn, a camera is mounted on a ceiling beam, to the left of two TV monitors. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); VANDALISM (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%) Terrorism; Transit Systems; Subways; Buses; Security and Warning Systems; Closed-Circuit TV; Bombs and Explosives

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Great Britain; London (Eng); New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



280 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Narrowed in May; Trend Seen as Short-Lived 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The trade deficit shrank markedly in May, the government reported yesterday, but economists warned that the decline could not be sustained because it was caused by a drop in oil prices that has since reversed.
 The United States imported $55.3 billion more in goods and services than it exported in May, down 2.7 percent from $56.9 billion in April and far from a peak of $60.1 billion in February, according to the Commerce Department. Economists had expected a deficit of $57 billion.
Exports increased less than 1 percent, to $106.9 billion, while imports fell 0.8 percent, to $162.2 billion. 
 The trade deficit report came hours before the Bush administration sharply reduced its estimate of the federal budget deficit for fiscal 2005 to $333 billion, down $94 billion from an earlier forecast. The White House cited the lower deficit numbers and recent positive economic reports as evidence that its policies have helped the economy. 
 Often referred to as the twin deficits, the fiscal and trade imbalances have moved in tandem in recent years. That is because countries that have large trade surpluses with the United States use the dollars they earn from selling goods to Americans to buy Treasury securities.
 But no economic law stipulates that the two figures must move in concert. Indeed, economists predicted that the trade deficit would worsen even as the government's fiscal health improves.
 Falling energy prices drove down the value of imports of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products by $2 billion in May, to $17.2 billion, accounting for most of the improvement in the trade deficit. Excluding those categories, the gap grew to $41.5 billion, from $37.6 billion.
 While crude oil prices have been scaling new heights recently, touching $61 a barrel in New York trading yesterday, they had fallen to less than $48 a barrel in May. A report on export and import prices released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics yesterday said the price of imported fuel rose 5.9 percent in June after declining by 4.6 percent in May.
 ''Between our oil import bill going up and our import bill for everything else going up -- cars, clothing, you name it -- our trade deficit will swing back to the $60 billion average, which is what it was for the first couple of months of the year,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist for the PNC Financial Services Group.
 The government will release June trade data on Aug. 12.
 The trade deficit with China, a much-discussed topic in Washington, rose to $15.8 billion, from $14.7 billion in April. But the deficit with Canada, the largest trading partner, fell to $4.8 billion, from $5.4 billion.
 Imports of automobiles, auto parts and engines shot up by $1 billion, to $19.8 billion; imports of consumer goods had a more modest rise of $233 million, to $34 billion. Export categories that showed strong growth include food, with an increase of $558 million, to $5.6 billion, and consumer goods, with an increase of $434 million, to $9.7 billion. Capital goods exports, which include airplanes, fell $900 million, to $29.5 billion.
 Economists were heartened by the export figures, which grew for the third consecutive month and were 10.8 percent higher than in May 2004. Exports for the first five months of the year were up 11.4 percent from the corresponding period last year. That rise signals that a growing global economy has a greater appetite for American goods and services.
 ''Exports are holding up pretty well, and we have a pretty optimistic view across most of the world,'' said Ted Wieseman, an economist at Morgan Stanley. 
 But as fast as exports are growing, imports are rising even faster. So far this year, exports excluding oil are up 6 percent in inflation-adjusted dollars. Imports excluding oil are up 7 percent, Mr. Hoffman noted. ''Despite the improvement in May, our trade deficit is still on track for a record-breaking year,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks Imports and Exports since 2004. (Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); STATISTICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%) International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%) China; Canada

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



281 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: WorldCom Head Is Given 25 Years For Huge Fraud

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Jennifer Bayot contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of WorldCom, was sentenced yesterday to 25 years in prison for orchestrating a record $11 billion fraud that toppled the telecommunications company he founded.
 Judge Barbara S. Jones of Federal District Court in Manhattan handed down the sentence in a packed courtroom that included former WorldCom employees and investors.
 She said the penalty -- the stiffest in a corporate fraud case in recent memory -- was appropriate given the size and scope of the damages.
 ''Mr. Ebbers was the instigator in this fraud,'' she said during the 90-minute proceeding, rebutting arguments that Mr. Ebbers was duped by his subordinates. ''Mr. Ebbers's statements deprived investors of their money. They might have made different decisions had they known the truth.'' 
 Mr. Ebbers, in a dark suit and a crew cut, appeared tense when he arrived at the court, shoving a photographer who stood in his path. But during the proceedings -- accompanied by the rumbling of thunder from dark rain clouds -- he slumped forward in his seat with his elbows on the table and his head in his hands. Occasionally, he dabbed his eyes and sniffled. As the courtroom cleared, he stood and hugged his wife, Kristie.
 After a widely watched eight-week trial, Mr. Ebbers was convicted in March on nine counts of conspiracy, securities fraud and filing false reports with regulators. Prosecutors said that he masterminded the fraud to artificially inflate the company's earnings and its stock price.
 Prosecutors asked for a life sentence for Mr. Ebbers, who turns 64 next month. According to federal guidelines, Mr. Ebbers must serve at least 85 percent of his sentence. That is the equivalent of 21 years and 3 months in prison, which would make him 85 upon his release.
 Mr. Ebbers's sentencing came three years after the collapse of WorldCom, which pushed lawmakers to approve the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the most far-reaching change in American securities laws since the Depression. 
 Mr. Ebbers, who is appealing the verdict, returned home to Mississippi after the hearing and did not speak to reporters. Judge Jones told him to meet a probation officer within 72 hours and to report to prison on Oct. 12. She agreed to recommend that Mr. Ebbers be assigned to a federal prison in Yazoo City, Miss., and be treated as a low-security prisoner, as his lawyers requested.
 The defense also plans to argue that Mr. Ebbers should remain free on bail until his appeal is heard.
 The unusually long prison term is part of a string of penalties against corporate executives who defrauded investors in recent years. It eclipses the 15-year sentence given last month to John J. Rigas, the founder of Adelphia Communications, who is 80 and in frail health.
 A former midlevel executive from Dynegy, Jamie Olis, was sentenced in March 2004 to 24 years and 3 months in prison for his role in a scheme to disguise the company's finances.
 The government expects that the severity of these punishments will discourage other executives from cheating investors. In addition, prosecutors hope it will give them more power to negotiate settlements with executives accused of wrongdoing and to coax their underlings into testifying against their former bosses, legal analysts said.
 ''What the judge is saying here is Mr. Ebbers deserves a life sentence, and 25 years amounts to one,'' said Michael J. Missal, a lawyer at Kirkpatrick & Lockhart Nicholson Graham and lead counsel to the government-appointed examiner in the WorldCom bankruptcy proceeding. ''The feeling is they need greater deterrence and this is certainly one way to do it.''
 The severe penalties could also be a sign of what is in store for L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International, who was convicted of fraud, conspiracy and grand larceny in June and is awaiting sentencing.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission also announced yesterday that Mr. Ebbers had agreed that he would never serve again as an officer or director of a public company.
 He has been nearly wiped out financially. As part of a settlement to resolve a class-action lawsuit against him, Mr. Ebbers has agreed to sell his home and businesses, and turn over more than $5 million in cash; a big portion of that was wired yesterday to officials representing investors.
 His wife will keep $50,000.
 ''Bernie Ebbers's criminal actions wiped out billions of dollars belonging to WorldCom investors, cost thousands of employees their jobs and retirees their pensions,'' Alan G. Hevesi, the New York State comptroller and court-appointed lead plaintiff in the WorldCom securities class action, said in a statement. ''That's why it is so important to send a strong message with a severe sentence for Ebbers.''
 The defense had asked for a more lenient sentence for Mr. Ebbers in light of his age, heart problems and philanthropy. Mr. Ebbers's lawyers submitted 169 letters written by friends and former colleagues. 
 ''Doesn't that count?'' Reid H. Weingarten, the lead defense lawyer, asked on behalf of his client, his voice breaking.
 Judge Jones said she was ''impressed'' with Mr. Ebbers after reading the letters and would consider them when recommending what type of jail he should be sent to.
 But Mr. Weingarten argued unsuccessfully that Mr. Ebbers should receive a more lenient sentence because he had made no money from the fraud. He also argued, again unsuccessfully, that the losses stemming from the fraud were exaggerated.
 Mr. Ebbers's name will forever be linked to one of the most phenomenal roller coaster rides in corporate history. A former bouncer, milkman and motel owner, Mr. Ebbers in just 15 years built WorldCom almost from scratch into the nation's second-largest phone carrier. 
 WorldCom's stock was one of the highest flying in the 1990's, and his humble roots and entrepreneurial pluck won him plaudits from Wall Street analysts, the media and the countless investors and employees who made millions betting on his company.
 But just as Mr. Ebbers symbolized much that was successful about the American economy in the 1990's, he came to represent the blunders and greed unearthed as the stock bubble deflated after the turn of the century. He has been blamed not only for the downfall of WorldCom, which re-emerged from bankruptcy as MCI, but also for the troubles that enveloped the entire telecommunications industry.
 ''The problem with this trial is Bernie Ebbers was transformed into a symbol of corporate corruption,'' Mr. Weingarten said outside the courthouse. ''It has not been a happy day for Bernie Ebbers today.''
 It was a bittersweet day for the many former WorldCom employees who filled the wooden benches in the courtroom and the thousands more scattered across the country. Many lost their jobs and pensions and many held Mr. Ebbers personally responsible for the company's demise.
 ''We wanted to see justice,'' said Gino Cavallo, 57, who worked at WorldCom and its successor, MCI, for 15 years, and who said tens of thousands of dollars of his pension funds had been wiped out.
 In testimony before the judge, Henry J. Bruen Jr., a former WorldCom salesman from White Plains, said he had had a hard time finding a new job since he was laid off in 2003 because of the stigma of having worked for a company involved in such a huge fraud.
 ''This was sheer hell,'' he said, adding he had lost all his savings and personal property. ''The only thing I can take a solace in is the sentence.''
 Later this summer, five of Mr. Ebbers's former subordinates who pleaded guilty to the fraud at WorldCom and who testified against their former boss will be sentenced.
 In the meantime, lawyers for Mr. Ebbers say they will continue their appeal of his conviction. They contend that Judge Jones improperly told jurors that they could find Mr. Ebbers guilty if they determined that he consciously avoided information about the fraud.
 The lawyers will also argue that three former WorldCom employees deserved immunity from prosecution so they could testify in Mr. Ebbers's defense.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman of the telecommunications company WorldCom, was surrounded by members of the news media as he arrived for sentencing yesterday at Federal District Court in Manhattan. (Photo by Mary Altaffer/Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''How the Ebbers Sentence Compares With Some Others''WHO: Bernard J. EbbersCOMPANY: WorldComYEARS: 25CASE: His role in an $11 billion accounting fraud that brought down the company.SENTENCED: 2005WHO: Jamie OlisCOMPANY: DynegyYEARS: 24CASE: Devising a scheme to falsify his company's books and disguise a $300 million loan.SENTENCED: 2004WHO: Timothy J. RigasCOMPANY: AdelphiaYEARS: 20CASE: His part in the fraud to loot hundreds of milions from the company.SENTENCED: 2005WHO: John J. RigasCOMPANY: AdelphiaYEARS: 15CASE: Looting hundreds of millions from the company, concealing its true debt from investors.SENTENCED: 2005WHO: Andrew S. Fastow*COMPANY: EnronYEARS: 10CASE: Disguising the company's poor financial health, scheming to defraud the company.SENTENCED: 2004WHO: Robert E. BrennanCOMPANY: First Jersey SecuritiesYEARS: 9CASE: Hid money from creditors in a bankruptcy filing, laundered money.SENTENCED: 2001*Pleaded guilty (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SENTENCING (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); PRISONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PROBATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); BAIL (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%) Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants; Sentences (Criminal); Telephones and Telecommunications; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); TIME WARNER INC (50%); DYNEGY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Worldcom Inc; Worldcom Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); TWX (NYSE) (50%); DYN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (50%)

PERSON: Bernard J Ebbers; Barbara S (Judge) Jones; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



282 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats Call for Increase in Troops

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and other Democrats proposed Wednesday to increase the size of the Army by 80,000 troops as a way to alleviate what she called a ''crisis'' in the military caused by lengthy deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan.
 The lawmakers said they would introduce an amendment to the annual Defense Department authorization bill to raise the Army's authorized strength by 20,000 troops annually in each of the next four years, raising the total force to 582,400. Joining Ms. Clinton at a news conference announcing the proposals were three other Democratic senators, Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, Jack Reed of Rhode Island, and Ken Salazar of Colorado. 
 Increasing the size of the military, which the Pentagon has called unnecessary, is not a new idea for Democrats who have sought to highlight their differences with the Bush administration on national security. Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts proposed a similar plan during his presidential campaign.
 But the latest proposal comes amid growing debate, even within the Pentagon, about whether the military at its current size can handle indefinite deployments of 140,000 troops in Iraq and more than 17,000 in Afghanistan.
 On Wednesday, the Rand Corporation, a nonprofit research group that does extensive work for the military, released a two-year study of force levels commissioned by the Army that concludes the United States will face ''serious problems'' maintaining the readiness of many active-duty combat brigades and would have difficulty mobilizing for a crisis elsewhere in the world unless current overseas deployments shrink.
 The report examines the strain of maintaining forces of various sizes deployed overseas. At the high end, described as 14 to 20 brigades on continuing overseas rotations, ''the Army would experience serious problems'' in active duty unit readiness and have ''few, if any'' active duty brigades ''to turn to in a crisis,'' the report said.
 The United States now has 16 combat brigades, which each include 2,500 to 4,200 soldiers, in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nine are active duty and seven are reserve units.
 This presence can be maintained, the report found, but the rotation schedule required to maintain it means that heavy and medium brigades -- those with armor and helicopter components -- will be at their home bases less than two years between rotations. Two years at home, the report found, was a ''well-established Army goal for refreshing, refitting and retraining its units.''
 The blunt assessment surprised some Pentagon officials, and led the Army this week to delay the report's release until senior officers had been briefed on it, according to two Pentagon officials.
 Maj. Gen. David C. Ralston, the Army's director of force management who ordered the study, said that it validated the efforts by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld to expand the number of combat brigades from 33 to 43, and a parallel push to improve the training and equipping of reserve units so they can be deployed faster.
 ''Some of the details we dispute, but I think that's the minor thing,'' General Ralston said in an interview. ''It really is a validation of the direction'' the Army is taking, including current efforts to increase the overall size of the Army by 30,000, bringing it up to 502,400.
 But the report raises questions about whether Mr. Rumsfeld's plans would alleviate the strains it described, especially in the next several years. ''Transforming the Army into the planned structure of 43 active transformed brigades will help, but transformation is largely in the future, comes with its own uncertainties and cannot meet the full demand for rotational forces all by itself,'' the report found.
 One way to alleviate the strain, the Rand researchers said, would be to create new heavy brigades, but that would be expensive and take years. 
 Increasing the force further, as the Democratic senators propose, runs counter to Mr. Rumsfeld's plan to make the Army leaner. He has also said that he does not want further increases, because the demand for troops could shrink if there is progress in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 Without more combat brigades, the Rand study concluded, ''the nation could decide to live with these low levels'' of ready and rested heavy brigades, or it could reduce overseas deployments.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, before joining three other Democratic senators in calling for a rise in the Army's troop strength. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (87%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Law and Legislation; Draft and Recruitment (Military); United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: RAND CORP (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); KEN SALAZAR (79%); JACK REED (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (79%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Jack (Sen) Reed; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; Ken (Sen) Salazar; David S Cloud

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Afghanistan ; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



283 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Transportation Spending Plan Gets Approval From Board

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Michael Cooper contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 13 

 BODY:
State leaders settled their differences over how to pay workers on state transportation projects on Wednesday, clearing the way for a state board to approve a five-year capital plan for billions of dollars worth of projects.
 The board, the Capital Program Review Board, unanimously approved a large chunk of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's plan for $21.1 billion worth of construction and repair projects. And it allowed the Transportation Bond Act, which would pay for $2.9 billion worth of borrowing, to go before voters in November. Half of the bond act money would help pay for authority projects like the Second Avenue subway, a connection between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal, and a direct rail link from Lower Manhattan to Kennedy International Airport. 
As is customary in Albany, officials from the Pataki administration and the Legislature also signed off on a similar five-year capital plan for the State Department of Transportation, said the acting commissioner, Thomas J. Madison Jr. 
 The action means that state elected officials, as well as union leaders who fought for union-rate wages for workers on transportation projects, can promote the bond act and begin campaigning for it in earnest, something Attorney General Eliot Spitzer has said is crucial considering how a previous transportation bond act was rejected by voters and criticized for being too nonspecific.
 ''It will be a shot in the arm for the state economy,'' said Mr. Spitzer, who had stressed the importance of adhering to the state's prevailing wage law when public money is used. 
 The standoff over transportation spending had stalled dozens of projects around the state, from a plan to rehabilitate the Tillary Street ramp onto the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway to replacing two bridges over creeks in Delaware County. And because many projects could not be officially awarded until the plan was approved, officials feared that some bidders would withdraw their bids and come back with higher costs.
 Francis X. McArdle, the managing director of the General Contractors Association, said the delay had taken a toll. ''Very simply put, a lot of people haven't gone to work,'' he said.
 The deal came a day before Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat, was to hold a public hearing to discuss what he said was the ''enormous economic dislocation'' caused by the delay. News of a deal prompted Mr. Brodsky to cancel his hearing.
 Elliot Sander, the director of the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management at New York University, said, ''Several key transit and highway projects that were stalled can now proceed.''
 He said that the transportation authority's chairman, Peter S. Kalikow, must now decide whether to award the first construction contracts for the East Side access project, to bring the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Station, and whether to proceed on the final design for the first segment of the Second Avenue subway. Mr. Sander said the authority would now go to Washington to try to ''nail down'' a commitment of several billion dollars in federal money for the big projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BONDS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CONTRACT AWARDS (67%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%) Transit Systems; Railroads; Referendums; Government Bonds; Subways; Grand Central Terminal (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Long Island Rail Road; Capital Program Review Board (NYS)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%) Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



284 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Property Tax Is Hot Subject For Corzine And Forrester 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Jonathan Miller contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 13 

 BODY:
In a prelude to what is likely to be a particularly combative campaign, the two multimillionaire candidates for New Jersey governor challenged each other Wednesday to a numerical duel over their plans to reduce the state's perennially high property taxes.
 Taking the offensive on an issue that polls say is a major voter concern, Senator Jon S. Corzine, the Democrat, said at a State House news conference here that Douglas R. Forrester's plan to cut property taxes ''borders on dishonesty,'' and offered his most detailed and scathing campaign attack yet.
The Forrester campaign responded with a statement titled ''Corzine's Fuzzy Math'' calling Mr. Corzine wrong and saying he was following in the footsteps of two former Democratic governors, James E. McGreevey and Jim Florio. Mr. Corzine, in an animated presentation aided by mathematical charts, argued that Mr. Forrester's plan relied on unrealistic assumptions and would actually cost $9.2 billion in new spending over four years. 
 Mr. Corzine said that his own proposal to increase rebates by 10 percent per year would cost $1.67 billion over the same period and would be financed by spending cuts, asset sales and economic growth in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields.
 ''I'd like to have a real debate on the real numbers,'' said Mr. Corzine, the former chief executive and co-chairman of Goldman Sachs. ''I frankly believe the Forrester program is a slogan, and is disingenuous at best and borders on dishonesty.''
 Mr. Forrester's campaign director, Sherry Sylvester, responded by saying that Mr. Corzine was ''coming out swinging with an old warmed-over rebate plan that has never delivered for people.'' 
 While the candidates' property tax proposals have been circulating for months, Mr. Corzine's decision to criticize his opponent in the dead of summer immediately intensified the race for the Nov. 8 election. 
 It was the second time in three days that Mr. Corzine showed up at the State House. On Monday, he made a joint appearance there with the state's other United States senator, Frank R. Lautenberg, and pledged to block any Supreme Court nominee who was a political handmaiden of the Bush administration.
 Mr. Corzine's supporters have also become more engaged. Just hours before Monday's news conference, Congressman Robert Menendez -- considered a possible Senate replacement, should Mr. Corzine win -- criticized Mr. Forrester's environmental record. On Wednesday, just hours after Mr. Corzine's Trenton appearance, Assemblyman Jeff Van Drew of Cape May County, speaking in Absecon, claimed that Mr. Forrester had acted indifferently toward oil and natural gas drilling off the coast of New Jersey.
 On the property tax issue, Ms. Sylvester said Mr. Forrester's plan would guarantee a 30 percent reduction in property taxes over three years and would give the average homeowner $1,700 a year in property tax relief, compared with only $30 under Mr. Corzine's plan. Because that relief would be capped at $5,000, Mr. Forrester's plan would be cheaper than Mr. Corzine's, she said.
 Tom Wilson, the Republican Party's state chairman, went even further, saying the Corzine campaign's presentation was ''replete with dishonesty.'' And in a dig at Mr. Corzine's tenure in Washington, he added that ''he was the No. 1 spender in the Senate last year.'' 
 Mr. Corzine said Mr. Forrester's plan underestimated the total cost because it assumed that the annual growth rate for property taxes would be 3 percent, rather than the 6.5 percent it has averaged over the last 20 years.
 Ms. Sylvester said the 3 percent figure was reasonable because it incorporated some of Mr. Forrester's proposals to impose spending caps on local and state governments and cut ''waste, fraud and abuse.''
 Not long after Ms. Sylvester released her statement, the Corzine campaign fired back. It noted that a formula used to calculate property tax relief on Mr. Forrester's campaign Web site did not have a $5,000 cap. Before the afternoon was over, both sides fired again, with Ms. Sylvester saying the Web site was not working and Corzine supporters saying they had caught their opponents ''lying to millions of voters.''
 If nothing else, voters can expect more accusations and counteraccusations over property taxes.
 Mr. Corzine certainly seemed to relish the fight to come and appeared to feel he was in his element talking about numbers. He recalled a sixth-grade teacher who wanted him to do the homework and not just copy the answers by demanding, ''Show me the numbers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon S. Corzine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); JUDGES (61%); SALES REBATES (57%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%) Taxation; Election Issues; Property Taxes; Elections; Governors (US)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%) David W Chen; Jonathan Miller; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Douglas R Forrester

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



285 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Diplomatic Memo; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Rice Claims U.S. Role in Korean About-Face

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, July 13 

 BODY:
Returning from a six-day trip to Asia, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and her aides said Wednesday that North Korea's decision to return to nuclear disarmament talks was a vindication of the Bush administration's strategy and not solely the result of a South Korean offer to provide the North with electricity. 
 While some Asian officials, and even some administration officials, say they believe that South Korea's surprise offer last month to wipe away the North's energy problems broke the stalemate, Ms. Rice played down its significance. She portrayed it as an elaboration of the offer that the United States made during the last negotiating session, in June 2004. 
 ''It was really a part of the June proposal that somehow North Korea's energy needs would have to be dealt with,'' she said, speaking to reporters on her plane. ''And, of course, the South Korean proposal addresses it in a major way.''
 It is far from clear that the North Koreans are going to accept the offer. That will be determined in the talks, which open on July 25. 
 There are distinct advantages to having the initiative come from South Korea. The Bush administration can maintain that it has not broken President Bush's pledge not to improve the existing offer until the North responds to it at the negotiating table. At the same time, the North enters the talks knowing what specific benefits it can gain if it gives up its nuclear ambitions. 
 In the last year, Washington has urged the other parties to the six-nation disarmament talks -- Russia, Japan and South Korea -- to refrain from offering further incentives to the North and instead to push the Chinese to use their considerable leverage over its leaders to persuade them to return to the talks.
 But China refused, so the South Koreans took the lead. On June 17, South Korea's unification minister, Chung Dong Young, traveled to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and met with the North's leader, Kim Jong Il. Mr. Chung promised that if North Korea abandoned its nuclear weapons program, South Korea, on its own, would string power lines across the border and begin delivering up to 2,000 megawatts of electricity, enough to solve the North's dire energy crisis.
 In that same meeting, Mr. Kim said for the first time that the North was ready to rejoin the disarmament talks. The discussions in the weeks since then have been to decide when the new talks will take place and what will be discussed. 
 All of that was settled in Beijing on Saturday, during a dinner between Christopher R. Hill, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, and Kim Kye Gwan, North Korea's deputy foreign minister. 
 A senior administration official traveling with Ms. Rice indicated that the Bush administration was startled, and pleasantly surprised, when the South Koreans told of their ''very generous'' energy offer, as this official put it.
 Administration officials insisted that they did not know why North Korea had suddenly decided to return to the talks, but seemed to go out of their way to dismiss the South Korean offer. 
 ''How do you know that the South Koreans made a difference?'' Ms. Rice asked, in response to a question. ''Have you been talking to the North Koreans about what made a difference? I think I can make the argument that a number of diplomatic efforts here by the Chinese, by the South Koreans, by the United States'' were responsible. ''The Japanese and the Russians have been involved too,'' she said.
 The senior administration official described a continuum of activity in recent months that he said had helped convince the North Koreans to come around. First, he said, North Korea demanded security assurances from the United States. And while those assurances were already a part of the American proposal given to the North Koreans during the talks a year ago, ''the United States made the decision to give the security assurances'' again, he said, ''and we gave them.'' 
 Earlier this year, Mr. Bush and Ms. Rice made public statements assuring North Korea that the United States would not attack it.
 The official noted that the allies had also provided fuel oil as requested, food aid, economic assistance and public acknowledgment that the United States regarded North Korea as a sovereign state.
 But none of that seemed to budge the North Koreans. In fact, their statements grew ever more bellicose as the months passed -- so much so, the senior official said, that the United States asked China and South Korea this spring to tell the North to tone it down its language.
 In the last few months, South Korea devised the energy plan and then told Washington about it. The senior official would not say whether the South Koreans told the United States about it before it was presented to Mr. Kim in Pyongyang last month. But Mr. Chung visited Washington in early July to talk about his meeting with Mr. Kim, and in those meetings he also talked about his energy plan. It was not made public until Tuesday afternoon, as Ms. Rice arrived in Seoul.
 As late as Tuesday night -- while Ms. Rice and her aides were preparing to meet with South Korea's leaders -- a senor administration official directly involved in North Korea policy, said, ''I haven't seen the proposal yet; you are asking me about something I haven't seen.''
 On Wednesday afternoon Ms. Rice said, ''This has been a really intensive period of diplomacy over the last six weeks or so,'' culminating in North Korea's decision to return to negotiations. 
 Noting that the South Korean energy proposal is actually an extension of the offer already on the table, Ms. Rice added, ''I think everybody deserves a good deal of credit for convincing the North Koreans that there were no bilateral off-ramps from the six-party talks.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Foreign Minister Ban Ki Moon of South Korea at a news conference yesterday in Seoul. (Photo by Yonhap News, via Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DISARMAMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BAN KI-MOON (73%); KIM JONG IL (58%) Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Ban Ki Moon (Min); Joel Brinkley; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



286 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: White House Says Deficit Will Fall, and Keep Falling

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
The White House predicted on Wednesday that the federal budget deficit would drop sharply this year and that it would continue to shrink for the next four years.
 In a midyear update on the budget, the Bush administration said higher tax revenues would reduce this year's deficit to $333 billion, $79 billion less than in 2004 and $94 billion less than the administration predicted in February.
 President Bush and his supporters used the report to claim victory for their supply-side philosophy of cutting taxes to spur economic growth and ultimately tax revenues.
 ''We got to this point largely because of the president's pro-growth policies, especially tax relief,'' the White House budget director, Joshua B. Bolten, said. ''Those policies have strengthened the economy, which is now producing better-than-expected tax revenues.'' 
 The administration also predicted that the deficit would shrink more rapidly in the next four years than it had previously predicted, dropping to $162 billion by 2009. That was a bolder forecast than Mr. Bush's previous vow to cut the deficit in half by 2009, and some analysts on Wall Street warned that it was too optimistic.
 Democratic leaders said the results, though a welcome improvement, omitted many looming costs and had done little to improve the long-term fiscal problems that are expected as more baby boomers begin to retire at the end of the decade.
 ''A deficit over $300 billion is still nothing to cheer about,'' said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee. ''Even the White House projects triple-digit deficits for as far as the eye can see.''
 The latest budget outlook includes $50 billion for war costs in Iraq and Afghanistan in 2006, but that is only half the rate of spending this year, and the forecast includes no money for Iraq after next year.
 ''It's very likely that we will need funding beyond that $50 billion, even in 2006,'' Mr. Bolten acknowledged. ''That's not reflected in our numbers because we don't, we can't, say now with any confidence what size we think that's going to be.''
 The budget also assumes that nonmilitary discretionary programs, everything from job training to the space program, will be trimmed by $144 billion after adjusting for inflation over five years.
 But earlier this month, the administration asked for an additional $975 million to cover a shortfall this year in veterans' medical care. It is expected to ask for an additional $2 billion to cover higher-than-expected medical costs through 2006.
 Because the White House projects budgets for only five years, the forecast omits major new costs that arise just afterward. The forecast includes only a small part of the costs for the Medicare prescription drug program, which takes full effect in 2006 but which becomes much more expensive with each passing year.
 Likewise, the White House forecast includes just a small fraction of the cost of its proposal for replacing part of Social Security with individual retirement accounts. The administration estimates that the plan would cost $754 billion in its first 10 years, and several trillion dollars over the next several decades. But because the plan would not take full effect until 2009, the forecast includes only about $23 billion.
 That said, this is still the first year since President Bush took office that the budget deficit is likely to decline. When Mr. Bush came into office, the government was running record surpluses, partly caused by a torrent of tax revenue that accompanied the stock market boom of the late 1990's.
 The White House predicted in February that the deficit would hit $427 billion this year, up from $412 billion in 2004. But tax revenues are running about 15 percent higher, and corporate tax revenues are expected to be 40 percent higher.
 For economists, an important measure of fiscal health is the deficit as a share of the gross domestic product. The deficit reached 3.5 percent of G.D.P. last year, not a record, but high enough in a period of expansion to alarm many economists. This year, the administration predicts, the deficit will drop to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product. If the latest White House forecast proves accurate, the deficit would shrink to 1.1 percent of G.D.P. in 2009.
 But skeptics abound.
 Economists at Goldman Sachs, in a research note on Wednesday, said it agreed with the administration forecast for this year but not for the longer term. The main reasons, it said, were that the jump in tax revenue stemmed largely from one-time gains in the stock market and the elimination of a temporary tax break last year for businesses to invest in new equipment.
 ''Politicians should keep the fiscal champagne bottles corked,'' said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan advocacy group that campaigns for fiscal discipline. Focusing only on the next five years, he said, ''gives a myopic and misleading view of the fiscal outlook.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joshua B. Bolten, the White House budget director, with a chart yesterday that suggested that falling deficits even beyond President Bush's second term, scheduled to end in January 2009. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TAX LAW (72%); MILITARY BENEFITS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); BABY BOOMERS (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN SPRATT (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (90%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



287 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Unocal Bid Denounced At Hearing

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Andrew Ross Sorkin and Jad Mouawad contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13 

 BODY:
A former director of central intelligence testified Wednesday that a Chinese company's bid for Unocal should be seen as part of that government's strategy for energy security in competition with the United States and that the American government should consider preventing such a deal.
 ''This is a national security issue,'' R. James Woolsey, director of the C.I.A. in the Clinton administration, said in a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee. ''China is pursuing a national strategy of domination of the energy markets and strategic dominance of the western Pacific.''
Testimony before the committee came as Unocal's directors were preparing to meet on Thursday in El Segundo, Calif., to review the $18.5 billion bid from the China National Offshore Oil Company, or Cnooc, executives involved in the negotiations said. 
 Unocal's board will look at several new provisions that Cnooc has offered as it seeks to persuade directors to accept its bid. Cnooc is racing an Aug. 10 deadline, when Unocal shareholders get to vote on a $16.8 billion offer made by Chevron in April.
 Cnooc, which has been in talks with Unocal's management since June 22, has added several concessions and safeguards to its offer, seeking to ease worries that the deal could be stalled or blocked by the United States government. These include a commitment to divest certain assets if needed to secure government approval, an escrow account of $2.5 billion to protect Unocal if Cnooc were to break any part of its deal and a separate $500 million break-up fee. 
 Cnooc may still hold another card. The company's board has authorized its management to increase the bid if necessary, the executives said.
 Still, Cnooc may face more than just financial obstacles. In Washington Wednesday, Representative Duncan Hunter, chairman of the armed services committee, said he might introduce legislation to block Cnooc from buying Unocal, even if a deal were approved by shareholders and by the government committee that reviews corporate takeovers by foreign enterprises.
 ''I think it would be a mistake to let a Cnooc deal go through,'' Mr. Hunter, a California Republican, said. ''I want to keep all options open.''
 Congress has the power to ''regulate commerce with foreign nations,'' under the Constitution, Article I, Section 8. Yet it is uncertain that legislation to thwart a single takeover -- the step Mr. Hunter mentioned -- would go very far.
 But Mr. Hunter's comment, and other comments at the Congressional hearing, point to the depth of political opposition that Cnooc faces in its bid for Unocal. The more political uncertainty that surrounds the Cnooc bid, the greater the financial risk for Unocal shareholders.
 Three of the four witnesses at the hearing made the argument that Cnooc's attempt to buy Unocal, a midsize American oil company, should be regarded as a matter of national security. Their case, in summary, is that Cnooc is an arm of the Chinese government, which is engaged in a strategic campaign to control oil assets worldwide and that its energy strategy helps feed China's military ambitions. Aiding these Chinese aims, they said, may also strengthen the hand of a centralized communist government often criticized for its human rights record.
 The government-owned Cnooc, Mr. Woolsey said, was ''an organ, effectively, of the world's largest communist dictatorship.'' Allowing Cnooc to buy Unocal, he added, ''should be beyond the pale, given the nature of the Chinese government.''
 The witnesses making the national security argument had intelligence and military backgrounds. Jerry Taylor, an energy economist from the Cato Institute, a libertarian free-market policy group, presented a very different view of the Cnooc bid.
 The fear that Cnooc might be a step in a Chinese mercantilist strategy of buying and hoarding energy assets to obtain an ''oil weapon,'' Mr. Taylor said, was ''very ill-founded.''
 Oil, he noted, is a widely traded, global commodity. Owning petroleum in the ground gives a nation no real security from sudden spikes in oil and gas prices.
 In the late 1970's, Mr. Taylor said, Britain was self-sufficient in oil because of its North Sea fields. Japan, by contrast, was entirely dependent on imported oil. Britain paid as much for its oil as Japan did.
 ''Because you have a world market for oil, it did not matter that Britain had reached the holy land of oil self-sufficiency,'' Mr. Taylor said. 
 But the witnesses concerned about national security pointed to statements by Chinese government officials emphasizing the importance of owning oil and gas reserves to enhance China's energy security. China, they added, has been paying high prices to buy oil and gas assets worldwide for the last few years. ''The Chinese don't care what the price is, they want access to the oil,'' said C. Richard D'Amato, chairman of an advisory panel to Congress on economic and security matters. 
 Mr. D'Amato and other witnesses called for legislative change to broaden the mandate for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or Cfius, a multiagency government group that reviews takeovers by foreign companies for national security concerns. The witnesses said national security reviews must include economic security, including oil supplies, and that Congress must oversee the committee's deliberations.
 The investment committee reviews, said Frank G. Gaffney Jr., a former senior Defense Department official in the Reagan administration, should be ''a far more rigorous, transparent and national security-minded process for evaluating Chinese investments like Cnooc's proposed purchase of Unocal.''
 Mr. Hunter said he and Congressional colleagues were working on amending the 1988 law that created the committee on foreign investment, to ''make sure we bolster the Cfius process.'' That work, he said, will continue regardless of what happens with the Cnooc bid.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Duncan Hunter may introduce legislation to block a Chinese company from buying the United States oil concern Unocal. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. C16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Law and Legislation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Foreign Investments; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES (59%) China National Offshore Oil Corp; Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%)

PERSON: DUNCAN HUNTER (89%); JOHN J DUNCAN JR (75%) Steve Lohr; R James Woolsey; Duncan (Rep) Hunter

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%) United States; China

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005



288 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Business Digest; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words

 BODY:

China's Mass-Produced Artworks Display Industrialization Technique
At 26, Zhang Libing has painted more van Goghs than van Gogh ever did. China's low wages and hunger for exports have already changed many industries. The art world, at least art for the masses, seems to be next. [Page A1.]

Former A.I.G. Chief Addresses Investigations
Maurice R. Greenberg has ended his long silence about the investigations into accounting practices at American International Group while he was chief executive. He told about 50 current and former A.I.G. employees that his lawyers would soon meet with federal and state regulators. He also challenged at least one of the accounting issues that cost him his job. [C1.]

A Hands-Off Policy on Mortgage Loans
For two months, federal banking regulators have signaled their discomfort about the explosive rise in risky mortgage loans. But regulators have been reluctant to back up their words with specific actions. [C1.]

No. 2 Executive at Citigroup Will Step Down
Robert B. Willumstad, the No.2 at Citigroup, announced that he was stepping down to seek a chief executive position at a public company. [C1.]

Former Qwest Executive Pleads Guilty to Insider Trading
A former chief financial officer of Qwest Communications International, Robin Szeliga, left, pleaded guilty to insider trading, becoming the highest-ranking officer to admit to wrongdoing in a scandal that forced the company to erase billions of dollars in revenue. She could play a crucial role in the government's effort to punish those involved in the Qwest accounting scandal. [C5.]

Saks Suppliers Want Records of Clothing Transactions
In the department store business, deals with clothing suppliers are traditionally done with a handshake and a smile. But Saks Inc., facing federal investigations on its payments to clothing suppliers and at least two lawsuits from those suppliers, now has to turn over documents in the first suit filed. [C1.]

Novartis Profit Rose 9% in the 2nd Quarter
Profit at the Swiss pharmaceutical company Novartis advanced 9 percent in the latest quarter, to $1.65 billion, driven by strong sales of its two star drugs, the heart medicine Diovan and Gleevec, a cancer treatment. Novartis announced it would buy the North American over-the-counter division of Bristol-Myers Squibb, including its pain medication Excedrin, for $660 million in cash. [C4.]

Unocal to Continue Talks With Chinese Company
The board of Unocal, the American oil company at the center of a takeover battle, instructed its management to continue negotiations with a government-backed Chinese oil company to seek a higher bid than its $18.5 billion offer. [C3.]

In a deal to win votes for the Central American Free Trade Agreement, House Republicans plan to rush ahead with a bill that would make it easier to retaliate against subsidized imports from China and tighten the definition of ''currency manipulation,'' a major complaint against China. [C3.]

S.&P. 500 Index Closes at a 4-Year High
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at its highest level in four years, after good earnings news from Apple Computer, lower-than-expected June inflation and stronger-than-expected retail sales. An additional lift came from a sharp drop in the price of crude oil, which fell below $58 a barrel. [C8.]

Video Game Rivalry Taken to Another Level
Expanding the video game wars to new fronts, Microsoft announced a deal with Marvel Enterprises to develop an advanced online game based on Marvel's well-known cast of comic book characters. [C2.]

Government's Inflation Gauge Holds Steady
The Consumer Price Index was unchanged in June, the government reported, despite strong economic growth and a hint of rising labor costs. [C3.]

Delta Raises Its Limits on Air Fares
Delta Air Lines, which placed limits in January on its coach and first-class fares in a bid to compete with low-fare airlines, said it had increased the price caps by $100 per one-way fare. Delta said it was forced to take the step because of high oil prices, which have driven up the cost of jet fuel. [C6.]

Court Lifts Order Against Canadian Cattle Imports
A federal appeals court lifted an injunction blocking the resumption of cattle imports from Canada, after United States agricultural officials told the court that the animals do not pose a threat to humans from mad cow disease. [A12.]

Opening Arguments Made in Vioxx Case
In Angleton, Tex., two very different lawyers presented two very different opening arguments -- in style and substance -- in Ernst v. Merck, the first Vioxx-related lawsuit to reach a jury. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Novartis share prices and stock closes since April 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); RANKINGS (88%); INSIDER TRADING (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (85%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); SCANDALS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); DEPARTMENT STORES (69%); LAWYERS (68%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); RETAILERS (64%); CANCER (61%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); SAKS INC (82%); NOVARTIS AG (82%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); CENTURYLINK INC (55%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); SKS (NYSE) (82%); NVS (NYSE) (82%); NOVN (SWX) (82%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); CTL (NYSE) (55%); BMY (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



289 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Time to Pull Out. And Not Just From Iraq.

BYLINE: By John Deutch. 
John Deutch, deputy secretary of defense from 1994 to 1995 and director of central intelligence from 1995 to 1996, is a professor of chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
AMERICAN foreign policy should be guided by two general principles: the first is advancing our security and political interests; the second is encouraging prosperity and responsive government for all people. It may be that with our encouragement and example, many countries will choose to adopt democracy and a market economy, presumably adapted to their own culture. Of course, others will follow a very different road for some time, perhaps indefinitely, as ethnic differences, poverty and historical and religious traditions affect and constrain choices. 
 America embarks on an especially perilous course, however, when it actively attempts to establish a government based on our values in another part of the world. It is one matter to adopt a foreign policy that encourages democratic values; it is quite another to believe it just or practical to achieve such results on the ground with military forces. This is true whether we are acting alone, as is largely the case in Iraq, or as part of an international coalition. 
It seems that many in the Bush administration believed that an invasion to topple Saddam Hussein would result in a near spontaneous conversion of Iraq, and with luck much of the Middle East, to democracy. But the notion of intervening in foreign countries to build a society of our preference is not just a Republican or conservative failing. The corresponding Democratic or liberal failing is the view that America has a duty to intervene in foreign countries that egregiously violate human rights and a responsibility to oppose and, where possible, remove totalitarian heads of state. This Democratic rhetoric quickly moves from ''peacekeeping'' in a country torn by strife to ''peacemaking'' and to ''nation-building.'' 
 The Clinton administration's intervention in Bosnia in the mid-1990's is an example of just such a failing: moving from an initial, laudable objective of stopping the Serbian ''ethnic cleansing'' of Bosnians to a fantastical goal of creating a ''multiethnic'' society with peaceful coexistence among three groups -- Bosnian Muslims, Croats and Serbs -- that have a history of enmity. 
 We should not shirk from quick military action for the purpose of saving lives that are in immediate danger. For example, the decision not to intervene early to prevent mass murder in Rwanda was a major failure. But we should not be lured into intervention that has as its driving purpose the replacement of despotic regimes with systems of government more like our own. It is not that the purpose is unworthy, but rather that it is unlikely to succeed. 
 Moreover, in trying to achieve regime change or nation-building, we tend to rely on military force rather than diplomacy, trade and economic assistance. The American military, the best in the world, is built to fight and win wars; we can ask the Marine Corps to defeat Republican Guard divisions or destroy rebel strongholds in Falluja, but maintaining local security, brokering political alliances and running local water systems, hospitals, power plants and schools are not major parts of its mission or training. Reshaping our military to take on the activities that the Pentagon euphemistically calls ''stability and security'' operations will come at a cost -- both in terms of potentially compromising the war-fighting capacity of our troops and in diverting the resources needed to support the civic action that underlies nation-building. 
 If we want to influence the behavior of nations, we would be better served by combining diplomacy with our considerable economic strength. Even North Korea saw the advantages, for a period of time, of constraining (albeit selectively and temporarily) its nuclear weapons activities for the economic benefits that accompanied the ''agreed framework'' of 1994. More recently, Libya backed off its secret pursuit of weapons of mass destruction, apparently on the sole expectation of economic benefit. The demise of the apartheid regime in South Africa after an embargo showed what sometimes can be done by collective economic action. 
 So where does that leave us on Iraq? There is a widespread view, even among many who opposed the invasion, that we have a responsibility to keep our troops in place until certain minimum conditions are achieved: some degree of security for the Iraqi people; a reasonable start on stable and representative self-government; and partial reconstruction of the civilian infrastructure. Prompt withdrawal is considered unthinkable by most Republicans and Democrats, because it is difficult to envision a pullout that leaves a peaceful Iraq in its wake and doesn't invite further unrest in the region. 
 So the expectation is that we will be in Iraq for several more years, perhaps with a somewhat reduced presence, but spending considerable money (more than $1 billion per week) and sacrificing lives ( one dozen to two dozen deaths and serious casualties per week), while working to achieve those minimum objectives required for withdrawal. 
 THIS conventional view, however, ignores two important questions. The first is, how much are American interests in the Arab world being harmed by our continued presence in Iraq? Second, how much does the United States' presence in Iraq reduce our ability to deal with other important security challenges, notably those posed by North Korea, Iran and international terrorism? Those who argue that we should ''stay the course'' because an early withdrawal from Iraq would hurt America's global credibility must consider the possibility that we will fail in our objectives in Iraq and suffer an even worse loss of credibility down the road.
 I do not believe that we are making progress on any of our key objectives in Iraq. There may be days when security seems somewhat improved or when the Iraqi government appears to be functioning better, but the underlying destabilizing effect of the insurgency is undiminished. When, after the fall of Baghdad, the decision was taken to disband the Iraqi Army, an impossible security situation was created: a combination of hostile ethnic factions supported by demobilized, but armed, military and security units with surrounding nations actively supporting them. 
 The insurgency cannot be overcome easily by either United States military forces or immature Iraqi security forces. Nor would the situation be eased even if, improbably, the United Nations, NATO, our European allies and Japan choose to become seriously involved.
 Our best strategy now is a prompt withdrawal plan consisting of clearly defined political, military and economic elements. Politically, the United States should declare its intention to remove its troops and urge the Iraqi government and its neighbors to recognize the common regional interest in allowing Iraq to evolve peacefully and without external intervention. The first Iraqi election under the permanent constitution, planned for Dec. 15, is an appropriate date for beginning the pullout. 
 Militarily, we should establish a timetable for reducing the scope of operations that has enough flexibility so as not to provide a tactical advantage to insurgents. We should also plan on continuing measures like no-flight zones, border surveillance, training for Iraqi security forces, intelligence collection and maintenance of a regional quick-reaction force.
 Economically, we should define what amount of assistance we are prepared to extend to Iraq as long as it stays on a peaceful path. It would be best if this aid was but one facet of abroader set of economic initiatives to benefit Arab states that advance our interests. 
 Of course, these measures cannot guarantee a secure and democratic Iraq free of external domination. But they could be first steps of a strategy to pursue America's true long-term interests in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Milan Trenc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); RELIGION (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%) John M Deutch; Bill Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CROATIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); RWANDA (79%) Iraq; Bosnia; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



290 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A Miscellany of Angelenos, Meeting in Love and Anger

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
It's possible that Maggie Gyllenhaal will never become a major star, but there isn't an American actress in movies today who holds the screen with as much deep-seated soul. In Don Roos's slyly subversive ''Happy Endings,'' a drama disguised as a wisp of a comedy, Ms. Gyllenhaal plays Jude, a heartbreaker whose throaty voice was made for torch songs and drama. Adrift in a melancholic haze, with pixie hair and long, loose limbs, her eyes rimmed with liner and worry, Jude looks a lot like a doll, one that knows she is fated to be forgotten.
 An ensemble piece about a miscellany of Angelenos bumping against one another with love and in anger, ''Happy Endings'' centers on two complementary characters: Jude and Mamie, an older woman played by Lisa Kudrow. Just south of 40, with no life partner or children, Mamie works as a counselor in an abortion clinic. She's distracted and disengaged even at home, where she wanders through rooms that have all the warmth and personality of a Hyatt. It's a measure of her profound disconnection that when she receives a massage from a smoothie named Javier (Bobby Cannavale), who also turns out to be her lover, she flinches under his touch. For her, the land of the living is dangerous territory. 
Mamie and Jude meet only once, near the end, but their lives form parallel lines from almost the start of the story. The film opens with a literal bang as a woman we will soon know as Mamie, breathless and convulsively weeping, runs smack into an oncoming car. Mr. Roos, who wrote as well as directed the film, quickly assures us with some printed text that this is not the promised happy ending of the title and that the bloodied woman isn't dead: ''No one dies in this movie, not on screen. It's a comedy, sort of.'' This annotation, which takes the shape of white-lettered words set against a slab of black, both diffuses the tension (Lisa Kudrow lives!) and underscores the filmmaker's personal stake in the story. He may be off-screen but he is never less than acutely present. 
 Mr. Roos, whose previous films include the nimble ensemble comedy ''The Opposite of Sex'' and, less happily, a romantic misfire called ''Bounce,'' does well with a crowded canvas. If it takes a while to figure out that this new film is as much about Jude as Mamie, it's partly because there are other juicy characters jostling for attention. Among the most central are Mamie's brother, Charley (Steve Coogan), who comes equipped with a lover, Gil (David Sutcliffe), and two friends, Pam and Diane (Laura Dern and Sarah Clarke), lesbians with a 2-year-old son on whom everyone dotes. At one time, Gil had been in the running to become the child's father, a road not taken that he and Charley peer down with uneasy wistfulness. 
 Sons and fathers, sisters and brothers, friends and lovers, gay and straight, adopted and sperm-banked -- ''Happy Endings'' is a road map to the way we live now. Mamie and Charley are actually step-sister and -brother, but they share a history that goes deeper than family ties. The absolute depth of their connection emerges after Mamie is approached by a would-be documentary filmmaker, Nicky (Jesse Bradford), who wants to force her into an on-camera reunion with the son she gave up at birth. (Nicky thinks the reunion will be his ticket to film school.) Years earlier, in a spasm of teenage lust, Mamie had laid the foundation for her life: she had given birth to a child whose absence would become the hole in her heart. 
 Mr. Roos has a screwball director's sense of timing and a writer's love for the well-turned phrase. Smartly, he lets the director hold sway over the writer, a bent that is most obvious in the economic way he keeps his characters in rotation. The filmmaker moves the narrative center of gravity seamlessly from Mamie and Charley to Charley and Gil to, ever so briefly, Charley and an eager pup named Otis (Jason Ritter). A rhythmically challenged musician who works at Charley's restaurant, Otis becomes the bridge to Jude, whom he meets at work while she's singing karaoke. Rootless, Jude follows Otis home, where she soon becomes involved with his wealthy widower father, Frank (a wonderfully poignant Tom Arnold), and ushers the story into surprising depths.
 Ensembles this large tend to be unwieldy or overly schematic, often both, but Mr. Roos is enough of a craftsman (and a mainstream filmmaker) that he never lets the seams show. It's worth noting that although ensemble movies take place in different geographies, multilinear stories like this one seem particularly attractive to filmmakers working in the sprawling, decentered cities of Los Angeles and London. There are probably all sorts of reasons for this, including the vagaries of fashion (and Robert Altman's long shadow). But one obvious advantage of bringing characters together in this fashion is that it allows filmmakers to create microcosms of the world. It also allows some filmmakers to indulge in the fantasy of ''community,'' surely one of the most denuded words in the contemporary American lexicon. 
 Mr. Roos doesn't pretend that a collection of spiky, selfish, self-serving individuals, even a group as white and comfortably situated as the one he has concocted, necessarily makes a community. In a lot of ensemble films, the moral of the story is that everyone is lonely, but at the end of the day and those empty nights, no one is alone. Mr. Roos doesn't peddle such off-the-rack comfort. In ''Happy Endings,'' everyone is always alone, whether in the arms of lovers or curling into solitude. That makes the filmmaker sound somewhat of an art-house existentialist. But Mr. Roos is more radical than that stereotype because, against the tide of independent fiction film, he remains alert to the truth that the personal is the political. 
 It would be difficult to explain just how Mr. Roos raises that tattered old feminist flag without giving everything away, and it's possible that even the mention of this particular F-word may do more harm than good to this movie. Suffice it to say that when Mr. Roos shows Jude exercising one of her constitutionally protected rights, he is not indulging in melodramatic excess. He is making a statement about how our choices define who we are, for better and worse. In that respect, it's never clear if Mamie ever understands the mistakes she made. But it's a mark of Mr. Roos's generosity that this fretful, difficult loner is as much the heroine of this story as Jude, a woman whose ending may not be happy, but whose self-determination is.
 ''Happy Endings'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). The film has some strong language, adult themes and a little recreational pot smoking. 

Happy Endings
Opens today in Manhattan.

Written and directed by Don Roos; director of photography, Clark Mathis; edited by David Codron; production designer, Richard Sherman; produced by Holly Wiersma and Michael Paseornek; released by Lions Gate Films. Running time: 130 minutes. This film is rated R.

WITH: Tom Arnold (Frank), Jesse Bradford (Nicky), Bobby Cannavale (Javier), Sarah Clarke (Diane), Steve Coogan (Charley), Laura Dern (Pam), Maggie Gyllenhaal (Jude), Lisa Kudrow (Mamie), Jason Ritter (Otis) and David Sutcliffe (Gil).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Ritter as Otis and Maggie Gyllenhaal as Jude, two people whose lives connect in ''Happy Endings,'' written and directed by Don Roos. (Photo by Eric Lee/Lions Gate Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); CHILDREN (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (53%); ABORTION (53%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Manohla Dargis; Don Roos; Maggie Gyllenhaal; Lisa Kudrow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



291 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 627 words

PERSON: Ronald Waring Haughton

HEADLINE: Ronald W. Haughton, 88, Innovative Labor Mediator

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Ronald W. Haughton, an innovative mediator and arbitrator whose work put him in the forefront of major national labor disputes over 40 years, died on July 4 at his home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 88 and also kept a residence on Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. 
 Starting in the early 1940's, Mr. Haughton's efforts to resolve disputes took him back and forth around the country -- from California vineyards to Detroit auto plants, from the docks to tobacco farms. 
 By his own estimate, he worked to resolve 4,000 cases in the public and private sectors. Theodore W. Kheel, then New York City's chief labor mediator, recruited him from Detroit in 1970 to organize Mayor John V. Lindsay's new Board of Mediation for Community Disputes -- as distinct from labor problems. 
 He led that experimental panel for two years as executive director while keeping his position as co-director of a joint Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations at the University of Michigan and Wayne State University in Detroit. 
 Mr. Haughton was co-director from 1956 to 1979, after five years as impartial arbitrator for the Ford Motor Company and the United Automobile Workers. He was also chairman of their joint pension board from 1950 to 1978.
 In 1979, President Jimmy Carter asked him to head the new three-member Federal Labor Relations Authority. That eventually put him in the middle of the salary dispute between the Reagan administration and the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization, which struck in 1981. With Mr. Haughton dissenting, the panel voted 2 to 1 in October to cancel the union's recognition as bargaining agent.
 It was the first time a union was stripped of its right to speak for government employees. Its appeals failed in the federal courts, and the administration proceeded to fire the strikers and replace them. 
 In his dissent, Mr. Haughton argued that the dispute should be sent to a judge, provided the union called off the strike. When the union balked, he changed his vote, making it 3 to 0 for decertification. 
 Ronald Waring Haughton was born in Toronto and grew up in Seattle. He graduated from the University of Washington in 1937 and received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin a year later. 
 He worked on a General Electric assembly line while in school and in 1938 was hired to evaluate contested claims for the Washington State Unemployment Compensation Division. 
 He moved on to the national Social Security Board, and, from 1942 to 1945, he directed the strike division of the War Labor Board in Washington. He went to East St. Louis, Ill., to mediate a stubborn dispute that was hampering war production at a munitions plant. Arriving in town knowing nobody, he settled the strike in his quiet way by making friends on both sides, renting a house in East St. Louis and becoming a deacon in a local church. 
 Later, the War Labor Board sent him to Detroit to deal with labor disputes. He went on to join the federal Conciliation Service and to serve as an assistant director of the Institute of Industrial Relations at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 President Lyndon B. Johnson asked him to help with the racial integration of tobacco workers. In 1966, the California office called on him to mediate a dispute between Cesar Chavez and grape growers, an effort in which his personal contacts with Mr. Chavez and the employers averted a strike. 
 He continued to work privately as a mediator into his 80's. 
 Mr. Haughton is survived by his wife of 53 years, Anne Fletcher Haughton; three daughters, Jan Tracy of Safety Harbor, Fla.; Patty Haughton of Wilmington, Del., and Leslie Zemsky of Buffalo; a son, John, of Millersville, Md., and 13 grandchildren.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald W. Haughton (Photo by Neal Boenzi/The New York Times, 1970)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (92%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); STRIKES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MAYORS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (71%); TOBACCO FARMING (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF LABOR & INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

JIMMY CARTER (50%) Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



292 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours Missoula, Mont.

BYLINE: By TIM NEVILLE

 BODY:
TWO hundred years ago, Lewis and Clark made camp beneath cottonwoods near what would become one of Montana's most vibrant communities: Missoula. They called the camp Travelers' Rest, a name that seems odd given that you'll find few Missoulians actually resting once July begins. That's when summer kicks in with the force of a bucking bronco, daylight lasts till 10 p.m., and Missoula's 63,000 people, who know that winter is never far away, pack in as much fun as they can. They'll hit the hills, go fly-fishing or otherwise disport themselves. There are hundreds of miles of trails, four mountain ranges and five major rivers, all within an hour's drive. So there are plenty of reasons to bring boots and a bike -- but none to bring a tie. This onetime logging center, unlike some once-depressed, now-chic Western mountain towns, flaunts its unpolished, industrial edge. Whatever Missoula lacks in cosmopolitan style can be overcome with a Trout Slayer ale, brewed in town, and a well-earned night's sleep. TIM NEVILLE

Friday
5 p.m.
1 -- Big Pie Country

Higgins Alley, formerly Zimorino's Red Pies Over Montana (424 North Higgins Avenue, 406-721-7757), is all about pizzas, house-made pasta and entrees like fresh trout fillets with tomatillo, cilantro and roasted corn relish. Since it first opened 22 years ago, the restaurant has been a favorite for apres Little League and apres fly-fishing. You won't need a reservation, but expect to wait about 30 minutes for a table on busy evenings. No item costs more than $20, despite the upscale menu.

8 p.m.
2 -- The Mo and the Ox

Missoula, home of the University of Montana, has its share of pubs, most of which are gritty outposts with bars worn smooth under the elbows of loggers, cowboys, hippies and frat boys in ball caps -- all sitting side by side. The true pulse of Missoula beats in back-alley bars where decor and ambience come a distant second to a featherweight tab. Don't expect fashion; do expect character, or characters, as the case may be. The Missoula Club, or the Mo Club for short (139 West Main Street, 406-728-3740), has a strong following in the late evening when a greasy burger hits the spot. For a glimpse of Missoula's Wild West roots, head to the Oxford (337 North Higgins Avenue, 406-549-0117), or the Ox, below, where no fewer than 24 rifles hang over the bar and chips and cards move around a poker table in the corner.

Saturday
10 a.m.
3 -- Painted Horses

In 1991, Chuck Kaparich, a local cabinetmaker, offered to build a carousel for the city. Once the location -- in Caras Park on the Clark Fork River downtown -- was settled, the community set out to volunteer sweat and coins. Some 100,000 hours of volunteer work later, with 16,066 pieces finally assembled for a 1918 Herschell-Spillman motor and frame, a Carousel for Missoula (101 Carousel Drive, 406-549-8382) opened for rides in 1995. Columbia Belle, the lead horse -- complete with an American flag, golden hooves and an angel behind the saddle -- leads 37 other handcrafted horses and two chariots to music from a large band organ. Rides are $1.50 for adults and 50 cents for children. Grab the brass ring from a dragon's mouth for a free ride.

Noon
4 -- Picnic Provisions

In the early 1860's, Francis Lyman Worden helped set up the trading post that eventually grew into Missoula. Today, Worden's Market (451 North Higgins Avenue, 406-549-1293) remains an economic hub of sorts. Creaky floors welcome a lunchtime crowd that seeks out football-size sandwiches made by the so-called Deli Lama. Try the Worden Whoppa, a meal of ham, Genoa salami, lettuce and onions and the secret whoppa sauce. Worden's also has an impressive selection of artisanal cheeses, like Harlech-Somerdale, flavored with horseradish and parsley, that pair well with beer, which Worden's has in bounty. Pack it up because you're going on a picnic.

1 p.m.
5 -- Varsity Letter

The concrete ''M'' tattooed on the side of Mount Sentinel stands conveniently for Montana, as in University of, which sits just below its arches, or Missoula, depending on whom you ask. Either way, you can't miss the 125-foot-long, 100-foot-wide letter, nor should you miss the winding trail, below, that forestry students cut in the early 1900's. Find the trailhead off Campus Drive near the Washington-Grizzly Stadium. The hike up isn't easy, but it is short -- roughly a mile -- as it steeply rises 620 feet above the valley floor. Benches along the way offer respite from the trudge and a chance to have your lunch, as do the rugged views into the Rattlesnake Wilderness area to the north, the 9,000-foot Lolo Peak in the Bitterroot Mountains to the south and the leafy streets of Missoula to the west.

3 p.m.
6 -- The Local Word

The literary community in Missoula flows well beyond Norman Maclean and ''A River Runs Through It.'' Today, writers like James Crumley and William Kittredge have homes here, as do many more of the hundred or so other authors whose faces adorn the entryway of Fact & Fiction (220 North Higgins Avenue, 406-721-2881). Stop by the bookstore, above, for a copy of the shop's newsletter, Folio, which lists coming readings, or check out www.factandfictionbooks.com.

7 p.m.
7 -- Dinner at Dusk

Linger for the sunset at the Shadows Keep Restaurant (102 Ben Hogan Drive, 406-728-5132), in the South Hills neighborhood, over dinner and cocktails on the outdoor patio overlooking town. The building, modeled after a 16th-century Irish castle's keep, has vaulted ceilings with beams salvaged from forests flattened during the eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington state in 1980. The Highlands Golf Club, with a nine-hole course, spreads out below the restaurant, and the bottom floor of the building is the clubhouse. Chefs here have been using the same recipe for rack of lamb ($25) for more than 30 years.

Sunday
8 a.m.
8 -- Eggs and Guidebooks

Food for Thought (540 Daly Avenue, 406-721-6033) sits across from dorms at the university and offers student meal plans. But the menu does not cater to impecunious undergrads seeking creative uses for Tater Tots. Try the freshly baked granola with yogurt ($3.95) or tofu scramble with curried vegetables ($6.25). The Green Hornet Huevos, a collage of eggs, spicy green chiles, onion, mushrooms, jack cheese and black beans ($6.50), is also particularly good. A small section in the restaurant offers guidebooks on where to hike or land a fish.

9 a.m.
9 -- Superfly-Fishing

Montana means one thing for many: fly-fishing. Grizzly Hackle (215 West Front Street, 800-297-8996), above, arranges guided fishing float trips on the Bitterroot, Clark Fork and Blackfoot Rivers and is a good clearinghouse for fishing information. Float trips of up to 12 hours cost $395 for one or two people and include lunch (grilled salmon) on the river. Shorter trips, up to eight hours, cost $365 for one or two people. Nonresident two-day fishing licenses are $24.25. For just a few hours of fishing, there are several spots within an hour's drive, and the mayfly and grasshopper hatches in late July and into August always have the trout jumping.

THE BASICS

Visiting Missoula
 Missoula International Airport, about 15 minutes from downtown by car, is served by Horizon Air, SkyWest, United, Northwest, Allegiant Air and Big Sky. The Mountain Line (406-721-3333) operates a bus from the airport for 85 cents, but renting a car is a better option if your time is limited. 
 In a house built in 1911, Goldsmith's Bed and Breakfast (809 East Front Street, 866-666-9945) is on the Clark Fork River and within walking distance of the university and downtown. Its seven rooms are $104 to $144 in the summer.
 The 171-room Doubletree Hotel (100 Madison, 406-728-3100) is a few blocks west. Rates start at $179 in the summer. 
 The Foxglove Cottage B&B (2331 Gilbert Avenue, 406-543-2927) has four rooms and a garden in a quiet neighborhood near the Rattlesnake Wilderness area. Rooms are $95 and $125. It does not accept credit cards.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Doug Loneman for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Eileen Berasi for The New York Times)Map of Montana highlighting Missoula.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (86%); BEER & ALE (72%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); SPORT FISHING (70%); MOUNTAINS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); YOUTH SPORTS (64%); POKER (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (97%) MONTANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



293 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Prices Stayed Flat in June, Even With Demand High 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The cost of living, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, was unchanged in June despite strong economic growth and a hint of rising labor costs, the government reported yesterday. 
 Apart from gasoline and a few other items -- air fares and medical care, for example -- price increases were notably absent in June, for a second consecutive month.
 ''There is a lot of competition out there and to hold onto market share, companies are keeping a lid on prices,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight. Demand, while strong, is not strong enough to create shortages that push up prices, he added. 
 Some of that demand was evident in the latest retail sales report, also released yesterday. Sales rose a hefty 1.7 percent in June, but much of that was a surge in car sales, spurred by large discounts. Auto prices, as a result, did not rise last month.
 Apparel sales soared but prices fell sharply, mostly because of larger discounts on summer clothing, said Patrick Jackman, a senior economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which issues the monthly C.P.I. report. 
 The overall inflation rate was zero in June, after having fallen a tenth of a percent in May, the bureau reported. 
 Economists often exclude food and energy from their inflation calculations because the prices of these items tend to fluctuate sharply. After excluding food and energy, the rise in the ''core'' C.P.I. was one-tenth of a percent in June, as that measure slowed from an increase of two-tenths of a percent in May.
 The annual rise in the price index has also been mild. Despite a surge in the late winter and early spring, the overall index is up 2.5 percent since June 2004, while the core rate has risen just 2 percent. 
 The report that inflation was below expectations left forecasters divided. Some, like Ian Shepherdson, chief domestic economist for High Frequency Economics, noted that unit labor costs -- the wages and benefits paid to make a car or to produce some other good or service -- had risen and that increase must eventually force up consumer prices.
 ''Company executives see that consumer spending is quite strong, and they think they will be able to pass through the higher labor costs,'' Mr. Shepherdson said. To counteract that, he said, the Federal Reserve must continue to raise the key interest rate that it controls, from 3.25 percent ''to somewhere north of 4 percent'' before the end of the year.
 For Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial, the rise in unit labor costs is an anomaly -- a result of year-end bonuses and other one-time payments that pushed up average labor compensation faster than productivity. 
 ''A lot of things contributed to the recent rise in unit labor costs that are not likely to repeat themselves,'' Ms. Swonk said.
 Price shock at the gas station is another matter. After dropping slightly in June, the price of a gallon of gasoline was up 7 percent in the first two weeks of July, reaching nearly $2.27 on average, according to the Department of Energy. 
 That increase, if sustained, could add three-tenths of a percentage point to this month's inflation rate, Mr. Jackman said.
 While gasoline prices are going up, the rising cost of a barrel of oil has not yet been passed along in the pricing of numerous products made from petroleum. ''We have really broken the lock-step relationship between oil prices and the C.P.I. in general,'' Ms. Swonk said.
 The big exception is airline fares. Partly because of fuel surcharges, airline fares have risen nearly 12 percent since December, and last month fares finally regained all the ground they had lost since the 9/11 attacks, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. 
 Elsewhere, inflationary pressures were remarkably absent. The bureau measures housing inflation not by housing prices, which have certainly gone up, but by the monthly rent that a homeowner would have to pay if he rented his home. That cost was up two-tenths of a percent in June after not rising at all in the two previous months.
 Medical services also rose by two-tenths of a percent in June, partly because of higher prices for prescription drugs, and the cost of education was up sharply. 
 But the prices of imported goods and services have barely moved in recent months, the bureau reported, although they should be rising in response to the decline in the value of the dollar over the last year.
 ''Foreigners have the same problem our companies do,'' Ms. Swonk said. ''They don't want to lose market share in the country that is the world's consumer of last resort, especially when the rest of the world does not have sufficient consumption.'' 
 In another report yesterday, the Labor Department said that the number of people filing first-time applications for unemployment benefits climbed by 16,000 last week, to a six-week high of 336,000. Many claims were a result of layoffs in the auto industry and elsewhere in manufacturing.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A gas station in Manhattan yesterday. The price of a gallon of gasoline fell in June, but has risen 7 percent since the start of this month. (Photo by Julie Jacobson/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); INFLATION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AIR FARES (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (61%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Price Index; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



294 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Settlers Demolish Greenhouses and Gaza Jobs

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 14 

 BODY:
About half the greenhouses in the Israeli settlements in Gaza have already been dismantled by their owners, who have given up waiting to see if the government was going to come up with extra payment as an inducement to leave them behind, say senior officials working on the coordination of this summer's Israeli pullout from Gaza.
 Under international pressure to save what is left for Palestinian economic development, Israeli and international officials are working on a plan to pay settlers to hand over the remaining greenhouses and a dairy to Palestinians, to preserve jobs and production. These businesses provide thousands of jobs to Gazans.
 Of the roughly 1,000 acres of agricultural land that were under greenhouses in the 21 Israeli settlements in Gaza, only 500 acres remain -- creating significant doubts that the greenhouses could be handed over to the Palestinians as ''a living business,'' the goal cited by the Israeli coordinator of the pullout, Eival Giladi.
 James Wolfensohn, the former head of the World Bank, who is representing the United States, Russia, the European Union and the United Nations in coordinating the economic aspects of the pullout, has been pressing Israeli officials to resolve the issue before it is too late. 
 The cost of the proposed deal is being estimated at between $8 million and $10 million, the officials said. Earlier proposals to pay for the greenhouses had been held up in part because the Palestinians have objected to the settlers being paid extra compensation for leaving Gaza. For this reason, and because the laws of many donor countries and international institutions prevent giving aid to a relatively wealthy country like Israel, the money is being put together by foundations and wealthy individuals, the officials said.
 The officials who described these plans would speak only on the condition of anonymity because they are involved in difficult negotiations over the issue.
 In another indication of progress, the European Union has agreed to provide customs officials to replace Israelis at the Rafah crossing between Egypt and Gaza after the planned August pullout, said the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana. Israel had objected to a proposal from the World Bank to hire a private company to carry out customs inspections at Rafah, but may agree to agents responsible to the European Union.
 Israel is under considerable pressure to retain the single customs ''envelope'' with the West Bank and Gaza, so that goods can travel between the two Palestinian territories and through Israel as they do now.
 At the moment, officials say, Israel is willing to let others handle visas for people entering Gaza from Egypt, but still has security concerns.
 Negotiators say they expect that if agreement can be reached on the border issues, it would smooth the way for building a Gaza seaport and modernizing and refurbishing the Gaza airport. So far, Israel has agreed to allow the Palestinians to begin to build the seaport, which could take three years, but not to reopen the airport, although the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, has told the Palestinians to begin planning for it.
 ''The Israelis are coming to understand that the logic of withdrawal from Gaza is that you withdraw or you don't,'' one official said. ''To get the United Nations to certify that Gaza is no longer occupied, Israel has to get out of Gaza.''
 Under international law, that includes removing the settlers' houses, including the rubble. Last month, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reached an ''agreement in principle'' that the Israelis would destroy the houses and then pay the Palestinians to deal with the rubble, but the Israelis have refused to accept the rubble for disposal in Israel and the Palestinians have refused to accept it for disposal in Gaza. Now Israel is negotiating with Egypt to take the rubble -- which would include dangerous materials like asbestos and fill at least 60,000 truckloads -- and bury it in the Sinai Desert.
 Israel sought international funding for the cleanup, which will cost at least $30 million, provide employment for Palestinians and take a couple of months, but other countries have not been willing to absorb such a cost.
 One international official laughed and said: ''An agreement in principle in this part of the world is the beginning of negotiations.'' There is no agreement yet on when the houses will be destroyed, or how, or how the asbestos will be treated or where the rubble will go, officials said.
 Another issue that must be resolved is whether Israel can find a way to allow Palestinian goods in sealed containers to move from Gaza into Israel without being unloaded and reloaded again on Israeli trucks. Israel is building larger goods terminals at the Gaza border with more inspection lanes, and has agreed to allow Palestinian goods to travel in guarded convoys with tracking mechanisms between Gaza and the West Bank and, officials say, between Gaza and the Israeli seaport of Ashdod. In principle, Israel is willing to turn over the terminals to civilian, rather than military control, officials say, and is looking at sophisticated American and Chinese scanners.
 Near the Gaza border Thursday, an Israeli woman in her 20's was killed and another Israeli wounded when a Qassam rocket fired from Gaza landed on a house in the Israeli kibbutz of Netiv Haasara. Palestinian authorities said Hamas was responsible and later clashed with Hamas militants, injuring five of them. Three Palestinian police officers were injured and two police cars burned. 
 [Early on Friday, Israeli helicopters fired missiles on three sites in Gaza, Reuters reported, quoting witnesses. The missiles struck a pro-Hamas charity in Gaza City, a cemetery in Khan Younis used as a launching site for the Palestinian mortars and a refugee camp. No casualties were immediately reported.]
 Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, had traveled to Gaza on Thursday for emergency talks with Palestinian factions there. Militant groups often accompany his visits to Gaza with rocket fire aimed at Israel -- in Israeli eyes, to spite him and his call for quiet. Israeli officials warned that the army would not stand by while Israeli civilians are killed inside Israel. The woman was the first Israeli killed by rocket or mortar fire from Gaza since the putative cease-fire began in early February.
 Another Israeli, Maor Jann, 21, a soldier, died on Thursday from his wounds suffered in Tuesday evening's suicide bombing in Netanya, bringing the Israeli death toll in that attack to five.
 Also Thursday, Israeli soldiers shot a Palestinian commander for Islamic Jihad and Al Aksa Martyrs' Brigades in the West Bank city of Nablus after surrounding a building and calling for the surrender of those inside, the Israeli Army said. Muhammad al-Asi, the commander, was killed and another Islamic Jihad member, a Palestinian man and a British woman who were also inside the building, were arrested.
 Before traveling to Gaza, Mr. Abbas denounced ''the spiral of violence'' and called for restraint. But he did not condemn Islamic Jihad or announce a crackdown on its members. 
 Joschka Fischer, Germany's foreign minister, met on Thursday with Mr. Abbas and the Palestinian prime minister, Ahmed Qurei, and said bluntly, ''Terrorism will have no positive results, and there will be no chance to establish an independent Palestinian state as long as violence and terrorism continue.''
 Two Israeli settlers accused of beating a young Palestinian man in Gaza on June 29 were charged by an Israeli court on Thursday, one with attempted murder and the other with aggravated assault in an attack the Israeli Army commander in Gaza, Gen. Dan Harel, called ''an attempted lynching.''
 Early Thursday, hundreds of Gaza settlers angered by the government's decision to make Gaza a closed military zone ahead of the mid-August pullout were forcibly removed from a main road crossing by soldiers. About 60 cars that the settlers had used to block the Kissufim crossing were removed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers began to dismantle a greenhouse in the Gadid settlement on Wednesday. Half of the Israeli-built greenhouses have already come down. (Photo by Oded Balilty/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (85%); HAMAS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INSPECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (63%) Palestinians; Bombs and Explosives

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); HAMAS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) European Union; Hamas

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); JAVIER SOLANA (51%) Steven Erlanger; Joschka (Min) Fischer; James D Wolfensohn; Muhammad al- Asi; Mahmoud Abbas

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); EUROPE (94%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; West Bank; Gaza; Germany; Netanya (Israel); Israel; Nablus (West Bank); Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



295 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Loose Reins on Galloping Loans; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: Efforts to Regulate Risky Mortgage Innovations Are So Far Ignored 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14 

 BODY:
For two months now, federal banking regulators have signaled their discomfort about the explosive rise in risky mortgage loans.
 First they issued new ''guidance'' to banks about home-equity loans, warning against letting homeowners borrow too much against their houses. Then they expressed worry about the surge in no-money-down mortgages, interest-only loans and ''liar's loans'' that require no proof of a borrower's income.
The impact so far? Almost nil.
 ''It's as easy to get these loans now as it was two months ago,'' said Michael Menatian, president of Sanborn Mortgage, a mortgage broker in West Hartford, Conn. ''If anything, people are offering them even more than before.'' 
 The reason is that federal banking regulators, from the Federal Reserve to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, have been reluctant to back up their words with specific actions. For even as they urge caution, officials here are loath to stand in the way of new methods of extending credit.
 ''We don't want to stifle financial innovation,'' said Steve Fritts, associate director for risk management policy at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. ''We have the most vibrant housing and housing-finance market in the world, and there is a lot of innovation. Normally, we think that if consumers have a lot of choice, that's a good thing.''
 At the Federal Reserve, officials face issues similar to those posed by the stock market bubble of the late 1990's. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned about ''irrational exuberance'' in the stock market but did not try to pop the bubble.
 Today, Mr. Greenspan acknowledges that housing prices in some areas are ''frothy,'' but he and other top regulators do not think it is their job to push them back down. 
 The main issue for regulators is whether banks and other lenders are properly managing their own risk, and the lenders are looking good.
 They have hedged their risks by bundling mortgages into securities that are then sold to investors around the world. And if interest rates go higher, they have shifted much of the risk onto consumers because a growing share of home buyers have taken on adjustable-rate mortgages. At the same time, they have built sturdier financial institutions through mergers and the breakdown of barriers to interstate banking.
 Bert Ely, an independent banking analyst who was among the first to recognize the crisis at savings and loan institutions in the 1980's, said the banks are far sounder today. ''It's a night-and-day difference,'' Mr. Ely said. ''No comparison.''
 But consumers -- and perhaps the broader economy -- are taking on more risk. About 60 percent of mortgages last year had adjustable interest rates, many with artificially low teaser rates that expire after the first few years. If a mortgage rate jumps from 4 percent to 6 percent, just slightly above current levels, the monthly payment can jump by roughly 30 percent when the teaser rates come to an end. 
 The jolt can be higher for people with interest-only loans. In addition to facing higher rates, borrowers also have to start paying down the amount they owe after about five years. People who put no money down face a different risk: if housing prices decline, even slightly, owners who need to sell their homes may have to come up with thousands of dollars beyond the sale price to pay off their loans.
 Indeed, because the main risks are to consumers rather than to financial institutions, some critics say regulators have been too timid. ''The prevailing attitude is that if you're taking on a risky mortgage, you're an adult and you're taking on the risk yourself,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and a co-sponsor of a bill that would impose tougher rules against so-called predatory lending practices. 
 ''If you are the comptroller of the currency or the Federal Reserve, you're looking out for the system of the world,'' Mr. Frank added. ''You're making macroeconomic policy. It's much more fun than looking out for consumers.''
 Even as federal regulators try to reinforce what they say are standard practices for proper underwriting, a growing number of state banking regulators worry that more may be necessary.
 ''The issue is suitability,'' said Joseph A. Smith Jr., the state banking commissioner of North Carolina. ''If you are a stockbroker, you don't put grandma into a hot tech stock. In the mortgage market, you may have a product that is perfectly O.K. for a thoracic surgeon or a professional basketball player, but is not appropriate for a nurse at Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem.''
 Unconventional mortgages have soared in popularity in recent years. About a third of home buyers in the last 18 months did not put any money down, according to a recent survey of home purchasers by the National Association of Realtors.
 Over 25 percent of all new mortgages in the last year have been interest-only loans, which allow buyers to postpone principal payments for three to five years but which become much more expensive afterward.
 Perhaps the hottest new loan is the so-called option adjustable-rate mortgage, or option ARM, which gives borrowers the choice of paying interest and principal, interest only, or even less than the normal interest. If the home buyer picks the lowest possible payment, the mortgage debt goes up rather than down.
 Despite their hands-off approach, some regulators are worried that banks and other mortgage lenders may not have properly judged the risks to themselves. They warn that speculative buying has increased, with many people hoping to quickly resell houses and condominiums before the construction is even finished. 
 ''There is a lot of pressure on banks to build market share, and consumers are looking for a quick response,'' said Barbara J. Grunkemeyer, deputy comptroller for credit risk at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. ''With respect to these new mortgage products, they are new and have taken off rapidly. We are still in the process of understanding the risk-management systems that surround them.''
 Led by the comptroller's office, which oversees nationally chartered banks, federal banking regulators published guidance in May that gave lenders more detailed instructions on how to evaluate the risks in home-equity loans.
 The move was a warning shot to lenders. The value of home-equity loans shot up 40 percent in 2004, to $398 billion. Almost all of those loans are at adjustable interest rates, which could rise sharply, and many were extended to people who had just borrowed money to buy a house.
 Regulators say they plan to raise many of the same concerns this fall that they have already raised about home-equity loans. The areas they find worrisome include granting loans equal to 100 percent of the value of the homes; granting large loans without due attention to the likelihood of higher monthly payments in the future; and granting ''no-doc'' (no documentation) or ''low-doc'' loans that require little or no proof of income or assets. 
 Such ''guidance'' is part of a joint effort by the federal regulators involved with banks and savings and loans: the Office of the Comptroller, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the National Credit Union Administration.
 Ms. Grunkemeyer said she would push for better assessment of a potential buyer's capacity to repay a loan. Even if the applicant qualifies for a loan based on a teaser rate of 4.25 percent, for example, banks will be asked to judge whether that borrower will be able to make payments if the rate jumped to 6 percent.
 Regulators also want to take a tougher stance toward no-documentation loans. ''You have to ask yourself, why would he be willing to pay a quarter-percent more when he could have gotten a lower rate by giving a copy of his pay stub and a W-2 form,'' Ms. Grunkemeyer said. ''There's a reason they've been called 'liar's loans.'''
 The guidance is tougher than it sounds, because bank examiners use it when they scrutinize an institution's loan portfolio and underwriting practices.
 But even advocates of stricter scrutiny, like Susan Bies, a governor of the Federal Reserve, say regulators are merely telling banks what most of them already know.
 ''We're not trying to set off alarms that we see broad issues,'' Ms. Bies said in a recent interview. ''We are seeing examples of practices that need to be tightened down a bit.''
 Most regulators, including Mr. Smith in North Carolina, are against issuing edicts against particular kinds of loans, even relatively risky ones, if both home buyers and lenders are eager to have them.
 But many state regulators want to go further than the federal government. State banking regulators are locked in a long-running power struggle with Washington over so-called predatory lending: deceptive mortgage loans that have extremely high fees and are usually offered to people with poor credit.
 Complaints about predatory lending are heavily concentrated among subprime borrowers, or people with spotty credit records and erratic incomes who probably could not have obtained a mortgage 10 years ago.
 The volume of subprime mortgages has soared from about $35 billion in 1994 to about $530 billion in 2004 -- more than 20 percent of all new mortgages last year. That growth helped propel the homeownership rate to a record 69 percent in 2004. The foreclosure rate on subprime mortgages remains modest, only 3.5 percent in the first quarter of 2005, but that is nine times the rate for prime borrowers.
 The Bush administration and Republican lawmakers in Congress are seeking to pre-empt state laws on predatory lending, saying that consumers and lenders need a coherent set of national rules. 
 But many states, including New York and North Carolina, contend that the federal guidelines are weaker than their own and that federal agencies are not equipped to handle consumer complaints from 50 states.
 ''When I started out, the biggest complaints were about denial of credit,'' Mr. Smith of North Carolina said. ''Today, none of our complaints are about denial of credit. They are all about what happened after the credit was given.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mortgage lenders, like Ditech.com, a unit of General Motors, offer many options besides the traditional 30-year fixed-rate loan. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. C6)
(Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Wait Till Tomorrow''New, riskier types of mortgages have exploded in recent years.Graph shows INTEREST-ONLY LOANS* (As a percentage of new mortgages) since 2001.*Loans that let borrowers postpone payments on the principal for up to 10 years.Year to date(Source by First American's LoanPerformance)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Betting on Rates''Interest-only mortgages and option-adjustable-rate mortgages let borrowers put off principal payments. In both cases, if rates do not rise, these borrowers could do well because they would pay the principal with dollars that are worth less because of inflation. But with rates at historical lows, they are likely to rise, and borrowers could end up paying more in the long run. Here are some examples based on current rates.MORTGAGE: $300,000MONTHLY PAYMENTS/RATESTERM: 30 YEARS30-Year FixedFIRST 5 YEARS: $1,753CURR. RATE: 5.5%NEXT 5 YEARS: $1,753FUTURE RATE: 5.5 %LAST 20 YEARS: $1,753FUTURE RATE: 5.5%TOTAL PAYMENTS: $630,979Interest-only mortgagesFixed rate for 5 to 10 years, paying only interest, then adjustable rate with payments made on principal and interestEXAMPLE 1FIRST 5 YEARS: $1,375CURR. RATE: 5.5%NEXT 5 YEARS: $1,842FUTURE RATE: 5.5%LAST 20 YEARS: $1,842FUTURE RATE: 5.5%TOTAL PAYMENTS: $635,100EXAMPLE 2FIRST 5 YEARS: 1,375CURR. RATE: 5.5NEXT 5 YEARS: 2,026FUTURE RATE: 6.5LAST 20 YEARS: 2,026FUTURE RATE: 6.5TOTAL PAYMENTS: 690,186EXAMPLE 3FIRST 5 YEARS: 1,375CURR. RATE: 5.5NEXT 5 YEARS: 2,217FUTURE RATE: 7.5LAST 20 YEARS: 2,217FUTURE RATE: 7.5TOTAL PAYMENTS: 747,537EXAMPLE 4FIRST 5 YEARS: 1,375CURR. RATE: 5.5NEXT 5 YEARS: 1,375FUTURE RATE: 5.5LAST 20 YEARS: 2,217FUTURE RATE: 6.5TOTAL PAYMENTS: 697,073EXAMPLE 5FIRST 5 YEARS: 1,375CURR. RATE: 5.5NEXT 5 YEARS: 1,375FUTURE RATE: 5.5LAST 20 YEARS: 2,417FUTURE RATE: 7.5TOTAL PAYMENTS: 745,027Option-adjustable-rate mortgagesAdjusted each year
borrower can pay only interest each month for first five years or even make payments that are lower than the accruing interest, as in this case:MINIMUMFIRST 5 YEARS: $965CURR. RATE: 1.0%NEXT 5 YEARS: $2,228FUTURE RATE: 6.5%LAST 20 YEARS: $2,228FUTURE RATE: 6.5%TOTAL PAYMENTS: $726,349(Sources by LendingTree.com
 Bankrate.com)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%) Housing; Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (56%) Comptroller of the Currency; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



296 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Own Original Chinese Copies of Real Western Art!

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: SHENZHEN, China 

 BODY:
Zhang Libing has painted more van Goghs than van Gogh ever did.
 At 26, Mr. Zhang estimates that he has painted up to 20,000 copies of van Gogh's works in a paint-spattered third-floor garret here where freshly washed socks and freshly painted canvases dry side-by-side on the balcony.
 A block away, Ye Xiaodong, 25, is completing 200 paintings of a landscape of pink and white flowers in another third-floor garret. And down the street, Huang Yihong, also 25, stands in an art-packed store and paints a waterfall tumbling gracefully into a pool, mixing the paints on an oval palette. 
 China's low wages and hunger for exports have already changed many industries, from furniture to underwear. The art world, at least art for the masses, seems to be next, and is emerging as a miniature case study of China's successful expansion in a long list of small and obscure industries that when taken together represent a sizable chunk of economic activity. 
 China is rapidly expanding art colleges, turning out tens of thousands of skilled artists each year willing to work cheaply. The Internet is allowing these assembly-line paintings to be sold all over the world; the same technology allows families across America to arrange for their portraits to be painted in coastal China.
 As in the United States and Europe, a handful of contemporary painters in China can command hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars for each of their highly creative works -- artists like Chen Yifei, Zhao Wuji and Wu Guanzhong. But the main push by China has been in the broad market for works that retail for $500 or less, with painters who work from postcards or images on the Internet or, in Mr. Zhang's case, a large, dog-eared copy of an art book in English on van Gogh.
 China's ability to turn what has long been an individual craft into a mass production industry may affect small-scale artists from Rome's Spanish Steps to the sidewalks along Santa Monica's beach in California, as well as many galleries and art colonies in between. 
 Artist groups in the United States are starting to express concern, questioning the originality of some Chinese paintings and whether they comply with American copyright laws.
 Wal-Mart, according to Bill Wertz, a company spokesman, has opted not to stock any Chinese paintings for this reason. But retailers from Pier 1 to Bed, Bath & Beyond say they are importing Chinese oil paintings, as are Internet sites like Oilpaintings.com. 
 United States customs data show that imports of Chinese paintings nearly tripled from 1996 to 2004, with bulk shipments reaching $30.5 million last year. Retail sales are several times that, as the customs data are based on the price that entrepreneurs pay for bulk purchases.
 The biggest market for oil paintings from China turns out to be in Florida condominiums and other second homes being built as part of the global housing market boom. Hotels and restaurants also buy large numbers of Chinese paintings.
 Many of the paintings depict scenes that Chinese artists have never seen. ''European landscapes, like the Mediterranean or Venice or Paris, are the best sellers for us,'' Moses Ben Herut, the president of Oilpaintings.com, said in a telephone interview from Alpharetta, Ga.
 Mr. Herut's Web site does not publicize the fact that it buys many of its paintings from Xiamen in southeastern coastal China, instead putting ''Georgia, U.S.A.'' at the top of its home page in red, white and blue to emphasize that it is an extension of a local gallery.
 At the Canton Trade Fair in Guangzhou this spring, exporters surrounded by paintings filled an entire row of exhibits. Adrian Goldberg, the chief executive of the Ziganof Group, a wholesaler in Manchester, England, walked into one of the booths and in less than an hour had placed an order for six 40-foot shipping containers filled with paintings to be delivered this autumn to ports in Europe and the United States.
 Standing outside the booth as crowds of buyers and sellers moved past, Mr. Goldberg explained that he was paying $25 to $30 for each painting, including the frames, and that it would cost him another $1 a painting in shipping charges. 
 He plans to sell the paintings mainly to furniture stores for $35 to $40 apiece, and predicted that shoppers would eventually pay $100 to $125 apiece in Europe for the paintings, and up to $160 each in the United States.
 The economics of the Chinese oil painting industry -- very few watercolors or pastels are traded internationally -- are striking. Mr. Zhang and Mr. Ye, who both learned to paint by serving two-year apprenticeships after high school, each earn less than $200 a month, plus modest room and board. Mr. Huang, who earned a four-year art degree from Jiangxi Normal University in east-central China, said he was paid $360 a month, but buys his own food and housing.
 Paints, brushes, canvases, frames and other materials are all available at low prices here in the Dafen artist village -- more than a dozen blocks of paintings stores with studios upstairs -- just across the border from Hong Kong.
 Wang Yuankang, the paintings entrepreneur at the Canton Trade Fair who received Mr. Goldberg's order, said his factory had 10 ''designers'' who do original paintings and 300 painters who copy these originals. Another 200 workers do the framing, he said.
 Some operations are even larger. Vicky Leung, the business manager for the Chaozhou Hongjia Arts and Crafts Company, with a booth near Mr. Wang's, said that the company had two factories with a total of 10 designers, 250 painters and more than 500 framers and assistant painters.
 One advantage of the larger operations is that they allow specialization, with simple assembly lines like those that Henry Ford brought to the automobile industry. 
 The larger factories have some painters specializing in trees, others in skies, others in flowers and so forth, an approach that not only improves ''quality'' but also increases output and reduces costs.
 Mr. Ye, working by himself in a garret, has a similar approach: on a recent afternoon, he was painting the top half of each of dozens of white flowers on a series of canvases. 
 ''It's quicker to do it like this, and after the paint dries, I'll do the rest,'' he said as he mixed a slightly darker shade of cream to paint the bottom, shadowed half of each flower. 
 More skilled painters in Xiamen, 400 miles northeast of here, produce portraits of American families from photographs sent to them over the Internet. About a tenth of the Chinese-painted portraits that Mr. Herut, the Georgia art entrepreneur, sells are returned by families who do not find them to be good likenesses; Mr. Herut has these portraits redone. 
 Northern New Jersey used to have a small but thriving cluster of businesses with artists churning out inexpensive paintings for restaurants, hotels and homes across the country. But these enterprises have been switching to imports, like the Dae Ryung Company, which had seven painters two decades ago at a studio attached to its offices in Hackensack, N.J., and let the last one leave four years ago without finding a replacement. 
 ''In the beginning it was better here, because we were able to tell them exactly what we wanted,'' said Helen Cho, the company's purchasing and accounting manager. ''But after a while, the Chinese caught on.''
 Exporters of Chinese paintings say that even though the paintings often imitate well-known works of art, the copies are inherently different because they are handmade, and so do not violate copyrights.
 Robert Panzer, the executive director of the Visual Artists and Galleries Association, a trade group based in New York, disagreed. He said that the vast majority of paintings produced before the 20th century were in the public domain and could be freely copied and sold. But it is not legal to sell a painting that appears to a reasonable person like a copy of a more recent, copyrighted work, he said.
 In any event, China is creating a fast-growing army of trained artists to produce both copies and original works. Art has become such a popular major in China that the number of art graduates from universities soared 59 percent last year, to 20,031, according to China's education ministry.
 That growth took place even though Chinese universities, sensing a financial opportunity, now charge twice as much in annual tuition for arts majors as for engineering majors, said Jin Baoping, an art professor at Shenzhen University. 
 Mr. Zhang and Mr. Ye said they did not mind painting hundreds of copies. 
 But Mr. Huang, the university graduate in the street-front store, aspires to greater heights.
 ''I've never done more than four copies'' of the same painting, he said proudly, adding that to do more, ''would be boring and very tiring.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ye Xiaodong, 25, is completing 200 paintings of a landscape of pink and white flowers in his garret. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 Zhang Libing estimates that he has produced up to 20,000 copies of paintings by van Gogh. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Decorating Walls On the Cheap''China is stepping up exports of inexpensive oil paintings, often produced by artists earning $250 a month or less.Graph tracks Chinese paintings exported to the United States since 1997 through April 2005.*Based on wholesale prices declared to customs officials. Figures include a small number of pastels and drawings, which are included in a customs category dominated by shipments of oil paintings.(Source by United States International Trade Commission)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); RETAILERS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (74%); COPYRIGHT (73%); COPYRIGHT LAW (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); CASE STUDIES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); BEACHES (65%); BULK SHIPPING (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%) Art; International Trade and World Market; Copyrights; Computers and the Internet; Colleges and Universities; Art; Industry Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: BED BATH & BEYOND INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Bed Bath & Beyond; Pier 1 Imports Inc

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (51%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Zhang Libing; Vincent (1853-90) Van Gogh

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (52%) SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (52%) China; Shenzhen (China)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



297 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Pension Cost Report Says Albany Is Part of Problem

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 14 

 BODY:
Skyrocketing pension costs have been straining city and state budgets for years, adding more than $4 billion in costs to New York's taxpayers since 2000.
 Yet the Legislature responded this year with hundreds of measures to sweeten various pension pots for unions and workers, according to a report by a conservative policy research group, the Empire Center for New York State Policy, an arm of the Manhattan Institute. According to the group's director, those pension costs have been rising at a faster rate than the costs for Medicaid, a $44 billion health care program for the poor that state and local officials have also cited as a drain on their finances.
''The only thing the Legislature has done since this pension bomb began exploding is to simply reintroduce every union's wish list of pension sweeteners, which would make costs even higher,'' said the director, Edmund J. McMahon, who wrote a report released Thursday analyzing the Legislature's actions on pension matters in the recently ended session. 
 The pension issue heated up in Albany in 2003, after prolonged sluggishness on Wall Street reduced the value of the pension fund and forced the state and local governments to raise contributions significantly. 
 Last year, in the face of mounting anger over state mandates, a flurry of proposals to relieve localities emerged. In January 2004, Gov. George E. Pataki had a pension relief package, as he had before, ''that would have saved taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars,'' said a spokesman, Michael E. Marr. The state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, who is the sole trustee of the state's pension fund, proposed a solution, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City aimed to create a lower pension tier for all future city workers.
 The deal that found its way into law allowed most local governments to push their pension costs into the following fiscal year, to save $980 million, and to borrow to pay off costs that rose above a certain percentage. But since the State Constitution bars diminishing the pension benefits of current workers, Mr. McMahon is calling for a more radical approach: to create a new tier that hews closely to common retirement plans of private companies, like a 401(K).
 The idea has no traction with unions. Edwin R. Donnelly, legislative director for the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., said lawmakers were right not to tweak the pension system or create a new tier. He said the pension fund, worth more than $120 billion, should be used to leverage investments ''to help the economy of the state.''
 David Neustadt, a spokesman for Mr. Hevesi, said it was ''kind of distorted'' to talk of rising pension costs without describing how they had been so low during the boom years of the late 1990's. He said costs had actually gone down in the last year. ''What it is going back to now is a normal cost,'' he said.
 But Mr. McMahon said lawmakers this year zeroed in on the issue with about 600 bills, some old and some new, to lavish employees in the pensions systems with costly new benefits. Of those, 46 passed in both the State Senate and Assembly. One, which the governor has already signed, will increase the pensions the city must pay to employees who worked at the World Trade Center site after Sept. 11, 2001. Mayor Bloomberg opposed the bill for several years, arguing that it could cost the city roughly $50 million a year.
 Mr. Donnelly said the increased benefits the law will provide are for ''the few people who suffered an injury and fall into a restricted class, mostly cops and firemen.''
 Mr. McMahon's study said only one bill this year, proposed by State Senator Liz Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat, sought to overhaul the pension system's fundamental benefit structure. It would have required the forfeiture of taxpayer-backed pension money for politicians convicted of crimes related to their duties, an idea inspired by the former Republican Senator Guy Velella, who is eligible for an $80,000 pension, more than what he earned as a base annual salary, despite having pleaded guilty to a felony. The bill failed.
 If all of the bills that passed are signed into law, it will equal a hit of more than $120 million for taxpayers, Mr. McMahon said. ''The Legislature is essentially sleepwalking through this whole problem,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); CONSERVATISM (71%); HEALTH CARE (55%) Pensions and Retirement Plans

ORGANIZATION: Empire Center for New York State Policy ; Manhattan Institute

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



298 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Man Is Accused Of Plotting Attack in Vermont

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLL

DATELINE: MONTCLAIR, N.J., July 14 

 BODY:
A New Jersey man who the authorities said had planned to go on a shooting spree in southern Vermont was arrested on Wednesday after his mother found an assault rifle and diagrams outlining an attack inside their apartment here.
 The man, Christopher R. Greene, 41, was arrested without incident after leaving a Motel 6 in Brattleboro, Vt., on Wednesday afternoon, said Lt. Timothy Oliver of the Vermont State Police. 
A subsequent search of Mr. Greene's rented car found a notebook with about 25 pages of ''very detailed and disturbing'' diagrams, writings and maps detailing a plot to shoot drivers on Interstate 91, Lieutenant Oliver said. 
 ''The maps and plans were not something a person could gather by simply driving by,'' Lieutenant Oliver said. ''There were also writings about how to disable a SWAT vehicle, details how to collapse a bridge abutment, causing traffic to back up, escape routes and places to take good, clear shots.''
 The investigation began on Tuesday when Mr. Greene's mother, Kathleen Greene, found a .223 caliber Ruger Mini 14 ranch rifle inside the South Mountain Avenue apartment she shares with her son, said Roger S. Terry Sr., deputy chief of the Montclair Police Department.
 Ms. Greene called the police and surrendered the weapon, which is illegal under New Jersey's assault rifle ban, Chief Terry said. She told the authorities that her son is mentally ill, he said. 
 A search of the apartment uncovered handwritten diagrams of highway overpasses and railroad tracks, said Paula T. Dow, the Essex County prosecutor.
 Mr. Greene, who is unemployed, attended Marlboro College, a liberal arts school in Vermont with about 340 students, and held a Vermont driver's license, Lieutenant Oliver said. 
 Mr. Greene had been living with his mother for at least a few months, but he often traveled to Vermont, New Jersey authorities said. Public records show he had lived in Seattle in 2000. Before leaving on Tuesday morning, he told his mother that he was attending a music festival at Marlboro, according to the Montclair police. Lieutenant Oliver said the concert was scheduled for next week
 The authorities said they believed he had traveled to Vermont early to do reconnaissance work for his shooting plot, which he indicated in his writings might have been planned for specific dates in August or September.
 Mr. Greene legally purchased the rifle, which can hold up to 30 rounds, from a gun shop in Vermont, Lieutenant Oliver said. It does not appear that he bought other weapons or that anyone else was involved in his plan. He does not have a criminal history in either New Jersey or Vermont, the authorities said. 
 Mr. Greene was arraigned in Windham County District Court on Thursday afternoon and waived his right to contest his extradition to New Jersey. He will be transported within the next 10 days to New Jersey, where he faces two felony weapons charges, and will be held on $150,000 bail, the authorities said.
 Ms. Greene was not at her apartment on Thursday, and several attempts to locate her by telephone were unsuccessful. Many of her neighbors in her apartment complex declined to speak to reporters.
 ''She is very upset and under a lot of pressure,'' Chief Terry said. ''It was obviously a difficult thing to do, but she absolutely did the right thing. It's a very powerful weapon he had; it could have done a lot of damage.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher R. Greene planned a shooting spree, the police said. (Photo by Vermont State Police)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); FIREARMS (89%); EXTRADITION (84%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); FELONIES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); GUN CONTROL (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (63%); MUSIC (61%); FESTIVALS (61%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Search and Seizure

PERSON: PAULA T DOW (58%) John Holl; Christopher R Greene

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); VERMONT, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Montclair (NJ); Brattleboro (Vt)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



299 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: All Rock, No Action

BYLINE: By Jean-Claude Shanda Tonme. 
Jean-Claude Shanda Tonme is a consultant on international law and a columnist for Le Messager, a Cameroonian daily, where a version of this article first appeared. This article was translated by The Times from the French.

DATELINE: Yaounde, Cameroon 

 BODY:
LIVE 8, that extraordinary media event that some people of good intentions in the West just orchestrated, would have left us Africans indifferent if we hadn't realized that it was an insult both to us and to common sense.
 We have nothing against those who this month, in a stadium, a street, a park, in Berlin, London, Moscow, Philadelphia, gathered crowds and played guitar and talked about global poverty and aid for Africa. But we are troubled to think that they are so misguided about what Africa's real problem is, and dismayed by their willingness to propose solutions on our behalf.
We Africans know what the problem is, and no one else should speak in our name. Africa has men of letters and science, great thinkers and stifled geniuses who at the risk of torture rise up to declare the truth and demand liberty. 
 Don't insult Africa, this continent so rich yet so badly led. Instead, insult its leaders, who have ruined everything. Our anger is all the greater because despite all the presidents for life, despite all the evidence of genocide, we didn't hear anyone at Live 8 raise a cry for democracy in Africa.
 Don't the organizers of the concerts realize that Africa lives under the oppression of rulers like Yoweri Museveni (who just eliminated term limits in Uganda so he can be president indefinitely) and Omar Bongo (who has become immensely rich in his three decades of running Gabon)? Don't they know what is happening in Cameroon, Chad, Togo and the Central African Republic? Don't they understand that fighting poverty is fruitless if dictatorships remain in place?
 Even more puzzling is why Youssou N'Dour and other Africans participated in this charade. Like us, they can't help but know that Africa's real problem is the lack of freedom of expression, the usurpation of power, the brutal oppression.
 Neither debt relief nor huge amounts of food aid nor an invasion of experts will change anything. Those will merely prop up the continent's dictators. It's up to each nation to liberate itself and to help itself. When there is a problem in the United States, in Britain, in France, the citizens vote to change their leaders. And those times when it wasn't possible to freely vote to change those leaders, the people revolted.
 In Africa, our leaders have led us into misery, and we need to rid ourselves of these cancers. We would have preferred for the musicians in Philadelphia and London to have marched and sung for political revolution. Instead, they mourned a corpse while forgetting to denounce the murderer. 
 What is at issue is an Africa where dictators kill, steal and usurp power yet are treated like heroes at meetings of the African Union. What is at issue is rulers like Francois Bozize, the coup leader running the Central Africa Republic, and Faure Gnassingbe, who just succeeded his father as president of Togo, free to trample universal suffrage and muzzle their people with no danger that they'll lose their seats at the United Nations. Who here wants a concert against poverty when an African is born, lives and dies without ever being able to vote freely?
 But the truth is that it was not for us, for Africa, that the musicians at Live 8 were singing; it was to amuse the crowds and to clear their own consciences, and whether they realized it or not, to reinforce dictatorships. They still believe us to be like children that they must save, as if we don't realize ourselves what the source of our problems is. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSIC (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); TRENDS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); POLITICS (70%); COUPS (68%); ETHICS (68%); TERM LIMITS (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%) Foreign Aid ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Music; Politics and Government; Ethics

PERSON: Jean-Claude Shanda Tonme

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) AFRICA (99%); CAMEROON (93%); GERMANY (92%); GABON (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOGO (79%); UGANDA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CHAD (79%); FRANCE (66%) Africa; Africa

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



300 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ROBIE, EDWARD ADAMS

 BODY:
 ROBIE--Edward Adams. 86, died peacefully in the early morning of July 11, 2005 surrounded by his family and loved ones at his Orono, ME home. Ed served on CARE's Executive Board from 1979-1996, acting as Chair from 1986-1989. He embraced CARE's mission of reducing poverty through empowerment, equity and sustainability. While with CARE, Ed led efforts to professionalize CARE's Human Resources, was instrumental in transforming CARE into an international organization, and increased corporate donorship by effectively communicating CARE's mission directly to executives. He and his wife, Jackie, traveled extensively supporting CARE projects and workers around the world. In 1953, Ed became Assistant to the President of the Equitable Life Assurance Society. As Senior Vice President, he pioneered in development of the human resources organization that became the model for industry. In 1982, he created the Group Move and Consulting Services Division of Merrill Lynch Relocation Management, and was President and Chief Operating Officer until 1985. He served as advisor to the Departments of Defense and Navy and on President Nixon's Committee on the Status of Women. He testified as a witness on behalf of industry at hearings of the Privacy Commission, Civil Rights Commission and the Joint Economic Committee. Ed served on numerous boards and committees, including Princeton University's Personnel Advisory Council, the Board of Education for the New Rochelle Public School System, the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Board of the Harlem School of the Arts, the National Council of the Aging, the American Child Labor Committee and the New York Medical College and the Personnel Committee of the National YMCA. 
Ed graduated Phillips Academy Andover, Westminster School in England and Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. He was a Navy pilot from 1943-1945, receiving the Distinguished Flying Cross, Air Medal, Navy Commendation and Philippine Liberation Ribbons for his service in the South Pacific. He leaves his wife of 57 years, Jackie, and four children: Betty of Stamford, CT, Ted of Jupiter, FL, Ned of Newport, NC, and Jill of Old Town, ME. He leaves ten grandchildren: Robie, Adam, Theo, Chelsea, John, Teddy, Lissy, Tara, Paige and Anna. There will be a memorial service at the home of his son Ned, at Newport, NC, on August 13, 2005. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to CARE, Attn: Donor relations 151 Ellis St., Atlanta, GA 30303. For information: Birmingham Funeral Home 438 Main Street, Old Town, ME 04468 (207) 827-6369. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CHILD LABOR (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); TESTIMONY (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); WITNESSES (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); CIVIL RIGHTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CHRISTIANS & JEWS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (53%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



301 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Food Industry Defends Marketing to Children

BYLINE: By Melanie Warner

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
ABOUT 350 food company executives, government officials, consumer advocates and academics packed a meeting room at the Federal Trade Commission's offices yesterday to discuss a wide range of issues on marketing food to children. One topic not up for discussion was the idea of government regulation.
 As the food marketing to children comes under increasing criticism from legislators, advocacy groups and parents, food companies have often expressed the view that they would be better off regulating themselves than having the government intervene. The government, apparently, could not agree more. 
In her opening remarks, the chairwoman of the Federal Trade Commission, Deborah Platt Majoras, said that having the government ban the marketing of certain types of foods was ''neither wise nor viable.''
 ''Under the right circumstances, industry-generated action can address problems more quickly, creatively and flexibly than government regulation,'' she said.
 The meeting, attended by most major food companies that market products to children, was an outgrowth of a September 2004 report from the Institute of Medicine, part of the National Academy of Sciences, on preventing childhood obesity. The report endorsed the idea of industry self-regulation, but also concluded that the Federal Trade Commission ''should have authority and resources'' to monitor compliance with any industry-generated guidelines. 
 Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa, sharply criticized the food industry's attempts at self-regulation thus far, which have consisted primarily of supporting a five-person organization called the Children's Advertising Review Board, or CARU. 
 ''CARU has become the poster child for how not to do self-regulation,'' said Senator Harkin, who was one of the few speakers to use the phrase ''junk food.'' The board, he said, ''has shown itself to be a captive to the industry.'' 
 Senator Harkin has introduced a bill that would lift a 1980 ban on the commission's regulating of advertising aimed at children. He highlighted two surveys showing that majorities of consumers favoring some government restrictions on children's advertising. 
 ''People are always shocked when I tell them that the F.T.C. has authority over ads to adults but not to children,'' Senator Harkin said. The bill has yet to get much Congressional support.
 For its part, the food industry has pledged to strengthen the advertising review board. On Wednesday, an industry trade group, the Grocery Manufacturers Association, said it had appointed a task force that would look at how the review board oversees the video games most food companies now feature on their Web sites. These so-called ''advergames'' have been criticized by consumer groups as another way for companies to sell nutritionally deficient food to children.
 The Grocery Manufacturers Association also called for an expansion of the board's staff and annual $650,000 budget. In addition, the association has urged that its guidelines be broadened to include monitoring promotional tie-ins with video games and paid product placement on television shows. An association spokesman, Richard Martin, acknowledged that food companies were not doing much of this. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, which said that it was acting on behalf of Campbell Soup, General Mills, Hershey, Kellogg, Kraft Foods, Nestle USA, PepsiCo, Sara Lee and Unilever USA, also said it would look at having the advertising board monitor the popular and much-criticized practice of using licensed cartoon characters in food advertising and packaging.
 In brief remarks, food company executives emphasized their efforts to sell healthier food and to provide more education to consumers about healthy eating and regular exercise. Brock Leach, chief innovation officer for PepsiCo, championed its SmartSpot program that helps consumers identify ''better for you'' products. Abigail Rodgers, vice president for wellness strategies at Coca-Cola, highlighted a middle-school program that would feature Lance Armstrong talking about exercise, and Michael Donahue, vice president for communications and customer satisfaction in the United States for McDonald's, said it now sold 300 million salads a year in the United States. 
 But critics complained that there was little talk by the companies of making real changes to their marketing to children. With the exception of Kraft, food companies have not committed themselves to altering substantially the kinds of foods they market to children. 
 In January, Kraft announced it would market to children only those products that meet its new nutritional guidelines for healthier choices. In a recent interview, Lance Friedman, Kraft's senior vice president for global health and wellness, said that ads for Oreo's cookies and for Jell-O had not been running on children's television shows all year. 
 But the food industry as a whole has so far balked at adopting similar standards. In the past, the advertising review board has limited itself to actions like approaching food manufacturers when products are being marketed in a misleading way or when ads for candy or snacks suggest that these items can be consumed as a meal. 
 The association says is it is opposed to nutritional guidelines because it does not believe there are any bad foods. ''Any food can be responsibly consumed by everyone, including kids,'' Mr. Martin said.
 Though much of the concern over food marketing to children is inspired by the seemingly endless number of times children see ads or promotions for unhealthy food, Dr. Pauline M. Ippolito, an associate director in the bureau of economics at the Federal Trade Commission, presented results of a study showing that over the last two and a half decades, the number of food ads seen by children on television has declined. But Ms. Ippolito acknowledged that as the television market has become more fragmented, food manufacturers have shifted their dollars to other forms of marketing and promotion.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 19, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column in Business Day on Friday, about marketing food to children, misidentified a group that has appointed a committee to review oversight of video games that food companies incorporate in their Web sites, a practice that has drawn criticism from consumer groups. The appointment was made by the Children's Advertising Review Board, not the Grocery Manufacturers Association.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Food manufacturers have been criticized for using cartoon characters in their marketing. (Photo by Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (94%); FOOD INDUSTRY (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (91%); YOUTH MARKET (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); FOOD MFG (74%); OBESITY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%) Food; Advertising and Marketing; Misleading and Deceptive Advertising; Consumer Protection; Children and Youth; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (55%) Federal Trade Commission

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (89%) Deborah P Majoras; Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



302 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Pushed by Fuel Costs, Delta Increases Cap on Air Fares

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
What a difference seven months and $61-a-barrel oil makes.
 Delta Air Lines, which captured headlines in January when it placed limits on its coach and first-class fares in a bid to compete with low-fare airlines, said yesterday that it had increased the price caps by $100 per one-way fare.
Delta said it was forced to take the step because of high oil prices, which have driven up the cost of jet fuel. 
 Competition was also a factor. In the last few months, big airlines have raised their fares above the limits put in place by Delta, which had set a high of $499 one-way for coach tickets and $599 for first-class fares within the United States. 
 Now, Delta's highest-priced coach fare is $599 one-way -- or $1,198 round-trip -- and its highest first-class domestic fare is $699, or $1,398 round-trip. The prices are for tickets bought at the last minute and, in some cases, within three days of a flight.
 Delta ''has finally caved in to reality,'' said Raymond Neidl, an airline industry analyst with Calyon Securities, in a research report.
 Delta had rolled out its plan, called SimpliFares, in response to low-fare competitors, including Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran, which carried one-third of passengers within the United States last year. But even Delta's original limits were higher than the $299 one-way fare caps that those airlines, and others, place on coach ticket prices.
 Gary C. Kelly, chief executive of Southwest, said that the Delta move highlighted the difference between major airlines and low-fare rivals. 
 ''It is no surprise to us that they are relinquishing their cap,'' said Mr. Kelly, whose airline reported a 41 percent increase in second-quarter net income yesterday, beating Wall Street forecasts. He added, ''This is very helpful to Southwest.''
 A Delta spokeswoman, Chris Kelly, emphasized yesterday that the airline was charging the highest prices on less than 6 percent of its domestic fares. But that includes a number of routes, including flights from New York to Dallas, Albuquerque and Burbank, Calif., according to Terry Trippler, an industry analyst who tracks air fares.
 Delta, which is the nation's third-biggest airline behind American and United, has been mired in financial problems for several years. It barely escaped a bankruptcy filing last year, and is in the midst of a reorganizational plan aimed at saving $5 billion through next year. 
 Many analysts questioned Delta's original plan to cap fares, saying that the airline had not yet reduced spending enough to be able to afford the change. Because of its financial crisis, Delta has been unable to afford contracts locking in the price of jet fuel. Only 10 percent of its fuel purchases were protected by hedging contracts in June, Ms. Kelly said, the first time since early 2004 that Delta had bought such protection. 
 By contrast, Southwest has contracts locking in the price of 85 percent of its jet fuel purchases, Mr. Kelly said yesterday, and has purchased hedging contracts protecting 65 percent in 2006.
 Southwest surprised analysts by reporting net income of $159 million, or 20 cents a share, compared with $113 million or 14 cents a share in the second quarter last year. The analysts' consensus had been 18 cents a share. 
 The earnings increase occurred even though Southwest's planes were less full this year than last year. By contrast, most major airlines have reported an increase in bookings this year, especially this summer, which is shaping up to be the strongest since 2000.
 Like its rivals, Southwest is charging slightly more for air fares, raising prices by $2 to $3 one-way in May, and it has added more service, starting flights from Pittsburgh in May. 
 One key will be higher ticket revenue. Although Southwest offers frequent fare sales, with prices as low as $29 each way, he said the airline was strictly regulating its supply of supercheap tickets. Still, Southwest does not plan to raise its $299 limit on one-way ticket prices.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Southwest Airlines, a Delta rival, has contracts locking in the price of 85 percent of its jet fuel purchases. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg News )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (92%); JET FUEL (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TICKET SALES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Jet Fuel; Company Reports; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (68%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines; Southwest Airlines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (89%) Micheline Maynard; Gary C Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



303 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Hopes Bill on China Will Assist Trade Pact

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14 

 BODY:
For House Republicans, the path to Central America apparently leads through China.
 In a deal announced on Thursday, House Republicans plan to expedite a bill that would make it easier to retaliate against subsidized imports from China and tighten the definition of ''currency manipulation,'' a major complaint against China.
 But the real aim of the bill was to win votes for the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, a priority for President Bush but unpopular with dozens of Republicans from districts with industries that have been hit hard by imports. 
 The deal was reached between Representative Bill Thomas of California, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Representative Phil English of Pennsylvania, who has opposed the trade pact.
 Mr. English, head of the Congressional steel caucus, said the deal could win over up to six Republicans from states with a heavy concentration of manufacturing, which have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs to China, Mexico and other low-cost countries.
 ''There are a lot of us out there who are concerned about Cafta because of broader concerns rather than about its specific content,'' Mr. English said. ''My view now is that Cafta is fine''
 The convergence of China and Central America comes as Mr. Bush and the House Republican leaders are struggling to line up enough votes amid overwhelming opposition from Democrats and rebellion among many Republicans.
 But much of the political hostility to any free trade agreement stems from concerns about China, which has a huge and growing trade surplus with the United States as well as companies that are making takeover bids for American companies. 
 For months, Mr. English has warned that concerns about China were coloring perceptions about the issue of trade in general and Cafta in particular.
 In the deal on Thursday, Mr. Thomas accepted a proposal by Mr. English that would allow the government to impose retaliatory tariffs on Chinese imports that were being illegally subsidized by the Chinese government.
 Under current law, the government cannot impose ''countervailing duties'' against a country with a government-run ''nonmarket'' economy, and China is considered a nonmarket because of its communist government.
 The administration has opposed that change, and Mr. Thomas has resisted it as well, because of the difficulty in figuring out subsidies in a system where few prices are based on supply and demand. 
 The bill would also tighten the definition of currency manipulation, aimed at cracking down on China's policy of keeping the yuan at a fixed exchange rate to the dollar.
 But the House bill would stop well short of a bill sponsored by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, that would threaten China with tariffs of up to 27.5 percent if it fails to let its currency rise in value to market levels.
 House Democrats, who had introduced a bill similar to Mr. Thomas's earlier on Thursday, complained that Republicans were merely trying to buy votes on the Ways and Means Committee for the Central American pact. 
 ''To get one vote on the committee for Cafta, the Republicans are willing to support a new China bill -- much of which has been advocated by Democrats for years without any response,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York. 
 Mr. Thomas made it clear on Thursday that the China bill was tied to his efforts to approve Cafta before Congress adjourned in August. Mr. Thomas said he would take the bill straight to the House floor, without hearings or a markup in committee, and seek to whisk it through on a voice vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Currency; Central American Free Trade Agreement; International Trade and World Market; Treaties

PERSON: PHIL ENGLISH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill (Rep) Thomas; Phil (Rep) English

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) United States; China; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



304 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Karl Rove's America

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
John Gibson of Fox News says that Karl Rove should be given a medal. I agree: Mr. Rove should receive a medal from the American Political Science Association for his pioneering discoveries about modern American politics. The medal can, if necessary, be delivered to his prison cell.
 What Mr. Rove understood, long before the rest of us, is that we're not living in the America of the past, where even partisans sometimes changed their views when faced with the facts. Instead, we're living in a country in which there is no longer such a thing as nonpolitical truth. In particular, there are now few, if any, limits to what conservative politicians can get away with: the faithful will follow the twists and turns of the party line with a loyalty that would have pleased the Comintern. 
I first realized that we were living in Karl Rove's America during the 2000 presidential campaign, when George W. Bush began saying things about Social Security privatization and tax cuts that were simply false. At first, I thought the Bush campaign was making a big mistake -- that these blatant falsehoods would be condemned by prominent Republican politicians and Republican economists, especially those who had spent years building reputations as advocates of fiscal responsibility. In fact, with hardly any exceptions they lined up to praise Mr. Bush's proposals. 
 But the real demonstration that Mr. Rove understands American politics better than any pundit came after 9/11. 
 Every time I read a lament for the post-9/11 era of national unity, I wonder what people are talking about. On the issues I was watching, the Republicans' exploitation of the atrocity began while ground zero was still smoldering. 
 Mr. Rove has been much criticized for saying that liberals responded to the attack by wanting to offer the terrorists therapy -- but what he said about conservatives, that they ''saw the savagery of 9/11 and the attacks and prepared for war,'' is equally false. What many of them actually saw was a domestic political opportunity -- and none more so than Mr. Rove.
 A less insightful political strategist might have hesitated right after 9/11 before using it to cast the Democrats as weak on national security. After all, there were no facts to support that accusation. 
 But Mr. Rove understood that the facts were irrelevant. For one thing, he knew he could count on the administration's supporters to obediently accept a changing story line. Read the before-and-after columns by pro-administration pundits about Iraq: before the war they castigated the C.I.A. for understating the threat posed by Saddam's W.M.D.; after the war they castigated the C.I.A. for exaggerating the very same threat. 
 Mr. Rove also understands, better than anyone else in American politics, the power of smear tactics. Attacks on someone who contradicts the official line don't have to be true, or even plausible, to undermine that person's effectiveness. All they have to do is get a lot of media play, and they'll create the sense that there must be something wrong with the guy. 
 And now we know just how far he was willing to go with these smear tactics: as part of the effort to discredit Joseph Wilson IV, Mr. Rove leaked the fact that Mr. Wilson's wife worked for the C.I.A. I don't know whether Mr. Rove can be convicted of a crime, but there's no question that he damaged national security for partisan advantage. If a Democrat had done that, Republicans would call it treason. 
 But what we're getting, instead, is yet another impressive demonstration that these days, truth is political. One after another, prominent Republicans and conservative pundits have declared their allegiance to the party line. They haven't just gone along with the diversionary tactics, like the irrelevant questions about whether Mr. Rove used Valerie Wilson's name in identifying her (Robert Novak later identified her by her maiden name, Valerie Plame), or the false, easily refuted claim that Mr. Wilson lied about who sent him to Niger. They're now a chorus, praising Mr. Rove as a patriotic whistle-blower.
 Ultimately, this isn't just about Mr. Rove. It's also about Mr. Bush, who has always known that his trusted political adviser -- a disciple of the late Lee Atwater, whose smear tactics helped President Bush's father win the 1988 election -- is a thug, and obviously made no attempt to find out if he was the leaker.
 Most of all, it's about what has happened to America. How did our political system get to this point?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRISONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TAX LAW (67%); TERRORISM (64%) United States Politics and Government; United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN POLITICAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN W GIBSON (59%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Karl Rove; Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; Joseph Iv Wilson; Valerie Plame

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; Niger

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



305 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: From the Back of the Mayoral Pack, Snarls and Snaps

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The two candidates lagging in the Democratic contest for mayor, Anthony D. Weiner and Gifford Miller, clashed at a candidate forum yesterday, suggesting a new dynamic in the mayoral race as the two jockey for position behind the leading candidates, Fernando Ferrer and C. Virginia Fields.
 The two men, who according to most polls are locked in a battle for third place in a field of four, engaged in their fiercest sparring yet at the forum, which was sponsored by the Union Square Partnership, a business improvement group, and Con Edison.
Mr. Weiner, a congressman representing Brooklyn and Queens, was the first to go on the offensive. He missed few opportunities to criticize Mr. Miller, the City Council speaker, as lazy, powerless or wrongheaded in a debate that veered from education and low-income housing to hate crimes and security. 
 Answering a question about how to ensure that parks in less affluent neighborhoods are properly maintained, Mr. Weiner threw down the gauntlet over the city's plan to build a water filtration plant beneath Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx.
 ''Now I have to tell you, Gifford Miller, it is outrageous to me that the City Council went along with that proposal,'' he said, adding that officials needed to fight for parks.
 In response, Mr. Miller, apparently stung by Mr. Weiner's newfound aggressiveness, ratcheted the tension up a few notches.
 ''Well, let me say I'm not going to take any lessons in fighting from a congressman,'' he began, ''who voted for President Bush's Iraq war and then said that was a mistake, a congressman who has spent a lot of time going along. I mean, you want to spend your time fighting, why don't you be more successful down in Washington fighting President Bush and his agenda?''
 Mr. Weiner said later that his attacks on Mr. Miller were not part of a new strategic offensive. Nonetheless, they came as pressures have mounted on both men to show that they are viable candidates. With just two months to go until Primary Day, opinion polls have shown support for the two men to be languishing in the single and low double digits. Mr. Miller, however, appears to have the stronger campaign operation in terms of fund-raising and gathering petition signatures.
 The two leading contenders, Mr. Ferrer and Ms. Fields, were not entirely spared from attacks during the forum. When the candidates were given the opportunity to question one another, Mr. Weiner went after Mr. Ferrer's proposal to revive a tax on stock sales.
 ''Are there any taxes that you would reduce to help middle-class families?'' Mr. Weiner asked.
 Mr. Ferrer responded that he would reduce sales and property taxes, but also defended his stock plan, saying Mr. Weiner had confused ''a global investment community'' that would pay pennies on trades ''with middle-class New Yorkers.''
 And Mr. Miller took a few subtle digs at Ms. Fields. At one point, after she had appeared to stray from the subject of a question, he began his answer by restating it. And after she said that she would figure out a way to consistently re-evaluate the city's infrastructure needs and the financing for major projects, Mr. Miller mockingly said that the city already had such an annual plan. ''It's called the capital budget,'' he said.
 Ms. Fields was unable to escape an issue that has dogged her recently: the unusually public hostilities between her campaign and Joseph C. Mercurio, the consultant she fired over doctored photographs used in her campaign literature. Ms. Fields refused to elaborate on the subject when the moderator, Sandra Endo, a political reporter for NY1 News, asked about it. And the other candidates declined to pursue the issue, declaring it an issue of little importance to voters. This got laughter and applause from people in the audience, many of whom were employees of Con Edison, in whose Irving Place headquarters the debate took place.
 The candidates also went after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican they seek to unseat, on everything from the failed Olympic bid to the school system to potholes. But the most striking spectacle was the two men jostling at the back of the pack.
 At one point, Ms. Endo asked what the Democrats thought of Mr. Bloomberg's handling of the recent beating of a black man by whites in Howard Beach. Mr. Miller praised the mayor but added that the city needed to further diversify its police force and address the high rate of unemployment among black men.
 Mr. Weiner also offered praise for Mr. Bloomberg's response to the beating, but then said that he was puzzled that the City Council had passed a budget without increased spending to hire more police officers, something both he and Mr. Miller advocate.
 ''You're in a position to do it, and unfortunately it was a missed opportunity,'' he said.
 In response, Mr. Miller said that what Mr. Weiner did not understand, ''perhaps because he's never negotiated a budget on behalf of the city of New York and hasn't spent that last four years fighting this mayor every single day and every single month on issues that affect New Yorkers,'' was that hiring more police officers was a question of management, not budget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Four Democratic mayoral candidates took part in a forum yesterday that was notable for a new tone of hostility by two of them. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); FAMILY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); PETITIONS (50%) Public Opinion; Primaries

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Diane Cardwell; Gifford (Speaker) Miller; Anthony D (Rep) Weiner; C Virginia (Boro Pres) Fields; Fernando Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2005



306 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Beliefs; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1120 words

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
Religious leaders spend a great deal of energy denouncing secularism. Perhaps they should spend more trying to understand secularization. 
 Secularism is a doctrine, a set of principles or a pattern of social behavior and institutions based on those ideas. Secularism, like socialism and capitalism, is a 19th-century coinage. It was adopted in midcentury by British freethinkers who wanted a more positive, respectable label than atheism. 
Secularization, on the other hand, is a process, the process by which matters once governed by religion shift into the control of nonreligious forces. ''Secularization'' is a much more venerable term than ''secularism.'' It was the technical term for the expropriation of monastic lands or other church properties by the state in the centuries after the Reformation. It has come to denote the process by which major fields of human activity, like science, medicine, economics, law and politics, gradually sloughed off direct control by religion. 
 Once extensively governed by religious texts and authorities, these endeavors came to be seen as having their own laws, methods and authorities. Galileo was part of that story, and so was the emerging recognition of market economies. And so, of course, was the separation of church and state. 
 For two centuries, debates about secularization have been fierce. Was it an intrinsic feature of modernity? Was religion destined to lose its power and influence as societies became modern, as much of modern European history seemed to confirm? Was a high level of personal belief and public religious influence quite compatible with modernity, as the experience of the United States suggested? Or, as some scholars have recently argued, has modernity not only failed to displace religion from a central place in life but has the world also actually become more religious rather than less? 
 One recent study, ''Sacred and Secular: Religion and Politics Worldwide'' (Cambridge, 2004) by Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart, has that last point as true both ways. On the one hand, the authors assemble data suggesting that societies that are modernizing in terms of greater economic security, urbanization and education are growing more secular. On the other hand, they note that societies far behind in this modernizing process have much higher birthrates. 
 ''Rich societies are secularizing,'' they conclude, ''but they contain a dwindling share of the world's population; while poor societies are not secularizing and they contain a rising share of the world's population.'' 
 Explanations of secularization can be grouped in seven types. 

CONFLICT OF IDEAS -- Secularization was caused by intellectual conversion. The materialist critique of religion that sprang up in the Enlightenment proved more satisfactory (the secularist view) or more seductive (the religious view) than traditional beliefs. This has long been the favorite explanation of both secularists and their religious adversaries, but historians almost unanimously question it. If some elites were won over by ideas, most people were not. The drift from religion had other sources.

POLITICAL REACTION AND CLASS RESENTMENT -- Church ties with hated governments or oppressive economic interests provoked antireligious feeling.

DIFFERENTIATION -- Modernity is characterized by different spheres of activity, with the economy, government and science being chief examples. All are governed by their own norms, procedures and authorities. Religion can easily become irrelevant or marginal to these, and limited largely to matters of personal and family life. Even there, religion competes with psychology and other forms of therapy.

POWER GRAB -- Secularization is the product of a competition of elites. European rulers seized church property and took control of church functions to aggrandize dynastic power or build nation-states. Later, capitalists, intellectuals and scientists battled with the clergy for cultural dominance.

EXISTENTIAL SECURITY -- Religious consciousness is stirred by confrontation with stark and unpredictable hardships, deaths and dangers. Secularization occurs to the extent that material progress cushions most people from these harsh realities.

RELIGIOUS FAILURE -- Secularization was born out of disgust with the 16th- and 17th-century wars of religion. Catholic and Protestant rulers bled Europe and persecuted religious minorities in the name of their faith. Leading minds in politics, law and science countered by developing systems of thought that bracketed religion and promoted religious tolerance. During the next two centuries, church hostility to new ideas and social reforms alienated first the intellectuals and then the working class.

RELIGIOUS SUCCESS -- Secularization in the West was the ultimate outcome of the Jewish and Christian doctrine of a God transcending nature and tribe, which are thus desacralized, clearing the way for a secular science and a secular state. Secularization was also the outcome of the Reformation-era emphasis on individual conscience, which led to limits on state power and to separation of church and state.
 Many of these explanations can be mixed and matched with different emphases, though they clearly suffer from depending too much on the history of the West. 
 In keeping with the final explanation, some degree of secularization, it can be argued, works to the benefit of religion, not its demise. In a noteworthy turn of phrase, Pope Benedict XVI, in a June 24 visit to the president of Italy, spoke of ''a healthy secularism of the state.'' 
 ''Temporal realities,'' the new pope said, are to be ''governed according to their own norms'' which should not, however, ''exclude those ethical references that are ultimately founded in religion.'' 
 Secularism is more often viewed as excluding precisely those kinds of religion-based reference points. Such a religion-excluding outlook was what the Rev. Alexander Schmemann, the great Russian Orthodox theologian who died in 1983, had in mind when he said, ''Secularism is a lie about the world.'' 
 ''Lie'' suggests knowing deception. It might be fairer for a believer to say that secularism, from a religious viewpoint, is an illusion about the world, just as a sincere secularist like Freud held the parallel conviction that religious belief could be analyzed under the title ''The Future of an Illusion.'' 
 But whether lie or illusion, can secularism simply be addressed by religious thinkers and leaders on the level of ideas? The tangle of theories about secularization suggests not. Many factors have been at work in whatever drift from religion has occurred in modern times. Many factors will have to be at work in any adequate religious response. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); HISTORY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (88%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); CHURCH & STATE (74%); POLITICS (68%); WRITERS (66%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (60%) Religion and Churches; English Language

PERSON: Peter Steinfels

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



307 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: More Signs That Inflation Is Subdued

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Most businesses seem to be absorbing higher energy costs in an effort to keep prices down and stay competitive, economists said yesterday after the latest economic report showed few signs of inflation.
 The report on the Producer Price Index, which is considered an early indicator of inflation, showed that wholesale prices were unchanged in June. Coming on the heels of Thursday's report on consumer prices, which were flat in the month, the price index offered another indication that inflation had been kept in check in June. 
Other reports released yesterday showed that consumer confidence in July touched its highest level in 2005 and that industrial production grew at its fastest pace in more than a year.
 The core Producer Price Index, which excludes food and energy prices, fell 0.1 percent in June, the Department of Labor reported. Analysts had expected a 0.1 percent rise in the core rate and a 0.4 percent increase in the overall number.
 Energy prices rose 2 percent, while food prices fell 1.1 percent. So far, companies have offset higher energy costs by cutting other costs or increasing productivity. 
 ''If you are a company that is very energy-intensive, you have probably been able to pass the costs along,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital. ''If you look at air fare and shipping, costs have gone up. But for the most part, firms have had to absorb the cost.''
 Compared with June 2004, the Producer Price Index is up 3.6 percent and its core rate has risen 2.2 percent. 
 Like other economic statistics released in the last two weeks, the producer price data points to a sustained economic expansion.
 ''This is a pretty consistent story,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS. ''In two weeks' time, we are going to get G.D.P.,'' he said, referring to the report on the nation's gross domestic product, ''and it's probably about 4 percent growth, which is pretty strong.''
 Americans appear to agree that the economy is improving. The University of Michigan consumer confidence index rose to 96.5 in July, up from 96 in June. It was a surprisingly strong showing considering the terrorist bombing in London and the higher gasoline prices.
 ''Maybe, finally consumer are realizing, 'Things are better than I thought they were,''' Mr. Stanley said. Manufacturing, a closely watched sector of the economy that has suffered significant job losses, showed unexpected strength in June, but mostly because rising temperatures have forced utilities to increase electricity production, according to the Federal Reserve. 
 Industrial production rose 0.9 percent in June from May, more than twice the 0.4 percent analysts were expecting and its fastest pace since February 2004.
 Automakers increased production by 2.8 percent in June, after raising it 1.1 percent in May and lowering it more than 2 percent in both April and May. Electricity production was up 6.9 percent in June, after a 1.2 percent decline in May.
 In a separate report, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported that its manufacturing index for the state rose to 23.9 in July, more than twice what it was in June and its highest level this year.
 Inventories, which economists have been watching because a big buildup earlier in the year was giving businesses headaches, rose a modest 0.1 percent, according to a Commerce Department report also released yesterday. That indicates companies are having some success in clearing their warehouses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); STATISTICS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); BOMBINGS (60%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Food; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



308 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Counting Corporate Crooks

BYLINE: By Stacy Horn. 
Stacy Horn is the author, most recently, of ''The Restless Sleep: Inside New York City's Cold Case Squad.''

 BODY:
THIS week, Bernard Ebbers, the former chairman and founder of WorldCom, was sentenced to 25 years in prison for his role in an $11 billion fraud that bankrupted his telecommunications company. Meanwhile, Kenneth Lay, the founder of Enron, awaits trial on fraud and conspiracy, and Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco, is soon to be sentenced after being convicted, along with his chief financial officer, of stealing $150 million from the company and reaping $430 million more by selling company shares while inflating the stock value.
 These numbers are shocking, but what's more shocking is that we don't know how many more Bernard Ebberses are out there. We have no idea if white collar crime is going up or down. 
 In contrast, police departments across the country must report annually to the Federal Bureau of Investigation every murder and nonnegligent manslaughter in their jurisdiction -- not to mention every rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny-theft and car theft. The bureau incorporates this information, along with arrest statistics, into a crime reporting program, which is published in a report called ''Crime in the United States.'' As a result, we know, for instance, that the murder rate in New York City is going down. 
 But we don't know how many white collar crimes have been committed or how many arrests have been made in connection with those crimes. If you call the state attorney general's office, the F.B.I. or the Securities and Exchange Commission, no one will be able to tell you how many white collar crimes were committed in any year, or provide any arrest statistics. The investigators there could be doing a great job, but they might also be concentrating on a few, select cases for years, letting countless others go by. 
 Granted, the S.E.C. publishes the number of cases it is working on in its annual report, but this number is meaningless without knowing the total number of crimes committed. What good would it do to know that the New York Police Department arrested 50 murderers, if you don't know the total number of murders?
 No one is auditing the agencies charged with investigating white collar crime the way the Department of Justice and the F.B.I. audit the police. And because the bodies of white collar crime victims are not piling up at the morgue, there is little public pressure to do so.
 This should change. As devastating as murder is for the victims and their loved ones, it's a contained crime. Significant time, money and manpower are spent tracking down murderers, even though statistically, they are not likely to kill again. But the effects of corporate crime are felt worldwide, sending ripples throughout the economy in the form of decreased investment and product development. Such fraud can send innocent hard-working people, like Enron's 21,000 employees, into poverty or financial distress. 
 We need to have the same fix on white collar crime that we have on murder. The F.B.I. recently began trying to incorporate white collar crime into its crime reporting program, but it does not include itself among the agencies required to provide information about the crimes it investigates. Nonetheless, this is a good place to start.
 In order for such a reporting system to work, however, every state and federal agency investigating white collar crime needs to submit information about these crimes. And of course, we would need to establish what exactly constitutes a white collar crime. Congress enacted the National Hate Crimes Statistics Act in 1990 requiring the Justice Department to gather information on crimes based on race, religion, sexual orientation or ethnicity; perhaps a similar mandate could be passed for white collar crime.
 Sure, there are obstacles. The line between what is criminal and what is unethical can be blurry: certain accounting tactics might be dubious but not illegal, and prosecutors must demonstrate criminal intent. Murder is always murder, but accounting rules change. And without a dead body, it's harder to tell how many people are getting away with your retirement account. That said, to a conscientious and curious investigator or accountant, where there's significant fraud, there's often a big bold chalk outline in the financial statements. Perhaps the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which outlines accounting information that must be provided to the S.E.C., which then makes it available on its Web site, could help. 
 Don't get me wrong, murder is horrifying, and it's right to hold murderers and the police departments investigating them accountable. But unlike many murderers sitting in prison for life, these gentleman bandits, these intelligent, educated men and women who slowly and methodically plan the crimes that wreck the future of untold numbers of people, know exactly what they are doing and who will be hurt. Their crimes of cold, selfish greed reflect, in their own way, even more indifference to life than murder. 
 In terms of the number of lives affected, ruined or lessened, and the cost to society as a whole, when it comes to crime in the United States, the more pervasive and devastating problem might be white collar crime. Or it might not. That's the issue: we have no way of knowing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ARRESTS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); BURGLARY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); JURISDICTION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); ROBBERY (71%); VEHICLE THEFT (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Crime and Criminals; White Collar Crime; States (US); Crime and Criminals

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) Federal Bureau of Investigation

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: Stacy Horn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



309 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: After Taking On Car Safety, Moving On in Washington

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 15 

 BODY:
Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge was not what one might have expected as the Bush administration's top auto safety regulator. 
 If officials in the administration are often stereotyped as siding with corporate interests, Dr. Runge did not fit the mold.
In January 2003, he angered auto executives in Detroit by saying that he would not let his child drive a vehicle that received no more than two stars in government rollover ratings even if it were the last one ''on earth.'' 
 Auto executives considered the comment an attack on the rollover proclivity of sport utility vehicles. Though Dr. Runge eventually dialed down his tone, he got his way, and automakers have started to change their S.U.V. designs.
 On Thursday, the Transportation Department said he would step down after four years as head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Dr. Runge, who was not available for comment Friday, will become the first chief medical officer at the Department of Homeland Security. 
 For many in the auto industry, Dr. Runge, who treated many car-crash victims as an emergency room doctor in Charlotte, N.C., will be remembered for his push to make vehicles safer. But environmental groups have generally been dismayed at his performance in the other aspect of his job, regulating fuel economy. 
 He is the latest in a line of administrators, Republican and Democrat, who have not been able to curb the nation's oil use.
 On the safety front, he cajoled automakers into agreeing to work jointly to make sport utilities less dangerous to passenger cars. He has set in motion modifications to side-impact crash tests that would essentially require automakers to start equipping vehicles with side airbags that protect people's heads. He also spent considerable effort focusing on driver behavior and increasing use of one of the oldest and most effective safety devices, the seat belt.
 ''He alerted people to the dangers of S.U.V.'s,'' said Joan Claybrook, the president of the consumer group Public Citizen who led the safety agency under President Jimmy Carter. ''He tried to listen to both the public interest, consumer groups and industry.'' 
 Not that she always agreed with him. Ms. Claybrook is backing language in a highway funding bill before Congress that would lay out timetables for several new highway safety regulations, including standards to make vehicle roofs sturdier.
 Dr. Runge has objected to ''inflexible mandates.'' 
 Eron Shosteck, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said ''as a physician, he's a man of science, so he was able to bring to his position an awareness of the need to base policy on sound science.''
 At the same time, officials of some environmental groups are upset that even a war in the Middle East has not led to significant toughening of fuel-economy regulations.
 ''Basically, I think he did half a job,'' said Daniel Becker, the Sierra Club's top global warming strategist. ''Runge sure didn't cut our reliance on the Persian Gulf.''
 While he did preside over a modest increase in fuel-economy regulations for S.U.V.'s and other light-duty trucks, the average fuel economy of new vehicles continues to stagnate. New cars and trucks today consume more gas, on average, than they did nearly two decades ago. 
 The agency's most ambitious project remains undone, the first overhaul of fuel-economy regulations for light-duty trucks. 
 Though Dr. Runge will remain through August, when the specifics of the administration's new fuel- economy plan are expected to materialize, his successor will have much work left to do in carrying through a final rule. Whether the new plan improves fuel efficiency will depend on the details. 
 But the primary interest of Dr. Runge, 49, has been saving lives, not gasoline. He spent two decades practicing emergency-room medicine, and in an interview in 2002, he recalled an accident that took place just two months before he came to Washington.
 A teenager on the way to school was brought to the emergency room after her Mazda 626 was struck by a Ford Explorer. Dr. Runge did not treat the teenager, who died, but remembered seeing her friends waiting for news of her condition. 
 He recalled the accident as a textbook case of the flaws in S.U.V. design that allow the vehicles to pose dangers to cars because of their ground clearance. In accidents, the front ends of S.U.V.'s often do not engage with the sturdiest parts of cars they hit. 
 ''This was a clear case of override, where the S.U.V. rode over the hood of the car and killed her instantly,'' Dr. Runge said. The case, he said, ''crystallized why I was here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge has been in the Bush administration since 2001. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (88%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); SCIENCE POLICY (70%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (68%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (53%) Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks ; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%) Jeffrey W Runge; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



310 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Students Say High Schools Let Them Down

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: DES MOINES, July 15 

 BODY:
A large majority of high school students say their class work is not very difficult, and almost two-thirds say they would work harder if courses were more demanding or interesting, according to an online nationwide survey of teenagers conducted by the National Governors Association.
 The survey, being released on Saturday by the association, also found that fewer than two-thirds believe that their school had done a good job challenging them academically or preparing them for college. About the same number of students said their senior year would be more meaningful if they could take courses related to the jobs they wanted or if some of their courses could be counted toward college credit.
 Taken together, the electronic responses of 10,378 teenagers painted a somber picture of how students rate the effectiveness of their schools in preparing them for the future. 
 The survey also appears to reinforce findings of federal test results released on Thursday that showed that high school seniors made almost no progress in reading and math in the first years of the decade. During that time, elementary school students made significant gains.
 ''I might have expected kids to say, 'Don't give us more work; high school is tough enough,''' said Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia, a Democrat and chairman of the governors association, which opens a three-day summer meeting here on Saturday.
 ''Instead,'' Mr. Warner said, ''what we got are high school students actually willing to be stretched more. I didn't think we'd get much of that.''
 The governors' survey was conducted as part of the association's effort to examine public high schools and devise strategies for improving them. Mr. Warner has made high school reform his priority as chairman of the association. His term ends on Monday, when Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, a Republican, is scheduled to succeed him. 
 While a vast majority of respondents in the survey, 89 percent, said they intended to graduate, fewer than two-thirds of those said they felt their schools did an ''excellent'' or ''good'' job teaching them how to think critically and analyze problems.
 Even among the remaining 11 percent, a group of 1,122 that includes teenagers who say they dropped out of high school or are considering dropping out, only about one in nine cited ''school work too hard'' as a reason for not remaining through graduation. The greatest percentage of those who are leaving, 36 percent, said they were ''not learning anything,'' while 24 percent said, ''I hate my school.'' 
 Experts in education policy said the survey results were consistent with other studies that have shown gaps between what students learn in high school and what they need for the years beyond.
 ''A lot of business people and politicians have been saying that the high schools are not meeting the needs of kids,'' said Barbara Kapinus, a senior policy analyst for the National Education Association. ''It's interesting that kids are saying it, too.''
 Marc Tucker, president of the National Council on Economic Education, an organization that helps states and school districts create programs that are more tailored to contemporary student needs, said he did not believe that American high schools could adequately prepare students without a fundamental change in how they operated.
 Mr. Tucker said American schools had been too slow to adapt high school curriculums to the real-life demands of college and the workplace. Except for that small fraction of highly motivated students with an eye toward prestigious private colleges and state universities, many more students, he said, are under the impression that just having a diploma qualifies them for the rigors of college and the workplace. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a survey of teenagers on the effectiveness of their schools misstated the affiliation of Marc Tucker, who said high schools had been slow to adapt curriculums to the demands of college and the workplace. He is president of the National Center on Education and the Economy, not the National Council on Economic Education. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%) Education and Schools; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: National Governors Assn

PERSON: MARK WARNER (69%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (50%) Michael Janofsky

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



311 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Court Says E.P.A. Can Limit Its Regulation of Emissions

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
A federal appeals court rejected on Friday an effort by a dozen states and cities, along with environmental groups, to have the Bush administration regulate greenhouse gases that spill out of the tailpipes of new cars and trucks.
 A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit found that the federal Environmental Protection Agency had the administrative discretion to decide, in 2003, not to order reductions in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles, as the states sought.
 The decision -- the most authoritative court ruling on the issue so far -- lessens the likelihood that there will be any national programs to control greenhouse gas emissions anytime soon. However, Judge A. Raymond Randolph, writing for the panel, and Judge David B. Sentelle, who disagreed with Judge Randolph on some of the issues in the case, did not directly address the agency's contention that it had not been given authority under the federal Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gases. 
 That omission led environmental groups to claim that the decision leaves the door open for the agency to regulate greenhouse gases in the future, if it chooses to do so. 
 The ruling appears to leave unchecked the authority of some states, such as California and New York, to continue their programs to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles or power plants. 
 But it was clearly a setback for the states that had sought federal involvement in controlling greenhouse gases.
 James R. Milkey, chief of the environmental protection division in the Massachusetts attorney general's office, called the ruling ''a deeply fractured set of opinions'' that was both disappointing and heartening. 
 ''The two judges in the majority just assumed that E.P.A. had the authority to regulate emissions without dealing directly with the question,'' Mr. Milkey said. 
 Only Judge David S. Tatel, who wrote a pointed dissenting opinion, touched the central issue, Mr. Milkey said, and he ''firmly rejected each and every argument that E.P.A. made trying to hide behind the claim that it lacked authority.'' 
 Mr. Milkey said the strong dissent could strengthen the case for a rehearing before the full 11-member Court of Appeals. The case could also be taken to the Supreme Court.
 Eryn Witcher, the press secretary for the Environmental Protection Agency, called the court decision a welcome win.
 ''We are pleased with this ruling and glad the court supported our decision,'' Ms. Witcher said. She said voluntary programs were better ways to reduce carbon and greenhouse gases than ''mandatory regulations and litigation that don't promote economic growth.''
 The agency was joined in the case by the attorneys general of 11 states that oppose carbon dioxide regulation and a coalition of trade groups, including the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. 
 Because of the fractured decision, the case did not turn out to be quite the showdown over global warming that was expected. Neither did it settle the question about how much authority the federal agency has to take action on emissions that some believe contribute to the heating of the earth, but that others do not think has any direct relation to climate change on such a large scale. 
 The emissions case dates to 1999, when several states and environmental groups formally petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and hydrofluorocarbons in new motor vehicles to control greenhouse gas emissions. 
 In 2003, the federal agency rejected the petition, arguing that it lacked the statutory authority to act. 
 Several states, led by Massachusetts, argued in federal court that the agency's decision had been based on the conclusion that the connection between greenhouses gas emissions and global warming ''cannot be unequivocally established,'' which was the finding of a report by the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences. 
 Massachusetts was joined by California, Connecticut, Illinois, Maine, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington, along with the cities of Baltimore, New York and Washington, D.C. and American Samoa. 
 The appeals court ruled that the agency's decision did not rest ''entirely on scientific uncertainty,'' but was a justifiable ''policy judgment.'' 
 James T.B. Tripp, general counsel for the group Environmental Defense, which participated in the case on the side of the plaintiff states, said that the majority opinion does not deal expressly with the question of the agency's statutory authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. ''But it implicitly says the agency may have the discretionary authority to do so,'' Mr. Tripp said. 
 The question of the government's authority was handled forthrightly in the 38-page dissent of Judge Tatel, who rejected most of the arguments the agency made to defend its decision not to regulate the gases. 
 Judge Tatel said he had ''grave difficulty'' seeing how the agency had not concluded that global warming was a serious threat to public health. And in his most strongly worded conclusion, Judge Tatel said the Environmental Protection Agency ''has authority -- indeed the obligation'' to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (95%); GREENHOUSE GASES (94%); EMISSIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); JUDGES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%) Weather; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Global Warming; Automobiles; Carbon Dioxide

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: A RAYMOND RANDOLPH (79%); DAVID S TATEL (79%); DAVID B SENTELLE (79%) Anthony Depalma; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



312 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Instant Infrastructure; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Becomes a General Store for Developing Countries

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Last month, officials from Vietnam called on David L. Calhoun, who runs General Electric's brand new infrastructure unit. They huddled in a room at the Waldorf-Astoria to go over a fairly formidable shopping list. The delegation left without placing an order, but Mr. Calhoun said, ''I'm pretty sure we're going to get a near-term hit in airplanes, and a longer-term hit in energy.''
 Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive, is clearly counting on him to get multiple hits, and from multiple countries. For the first time, G.E. has rolled aircraft engines, rail products, water, energy, oil and gas equipment, and even some finance units, into one all-encompassing collection of businesses, aimed at helping developing countries come of age.
 ''One of the biggest reasons behind creating the infrastructure unit is to offer one-stop shopping to developing countries,'' Mr. Calhoun said. 
 In fact, revving up sales in emerging countries has become the overarching goal behind many of the seemingly unconnected changes that Mr. Immelt has made at G.E. lately. 
 The legacy of John F. Welch Jr., his celebrated predecessor, was to turn G.E. into a hugely profitable company that sold products and services primarily to companies in the United States and Europe.
 Mr. Immelt, just four years into his job, is already shaping a company that may become best known for selling products and expertise to a whole new set of customers: the governments in the developing world, and the businesses they run. 
 He has little choice: G.E. is running smack into the law of big numbers. In 1981, when Mr. Welch, took the helm, G.E. was earning $1.7 billion on revenue of $25 billion. By the time Mr. Immelt took over on Sept. 7, 2001, G.E. was topping $28 billion in earnings and $130 billion in revenue. Analysts expect it will exceed $170 billion in sales this year.
 Mr. Immelt has often promised that G.E.'s revenue will grow at least at an 8 percent annual clip, and that its profits will grow even faster. Skeptics abound. ''That's a pretty herculean task, and the odds are against his delivering,'' warned Robert Friedman, an analyst with S.&P. Equity Research, who has a hold recommendation on G.E. shares. 
 Indeed, Mr. Immelt knows that G.E.'s traditional customers -- the airplane manufacturers that buy engines and services, the hospitals that buy CAT scanners, the utilities that buy turbines -- cannot provide that growth. But the governments of China and India, or even Vietnam and Abu Dhabi, with their vast needs for power, rail and air transportation, clean water, health care and, eventually, consumer finance, just might turn to G.E., one of the few true conglomerates, to meet all those needs. 
 G.E. already gets about half of its revenue from outside the United States. But only about $25 billion, or 15 percent, comes from emerging countries. Mr. Immelt has said he expects that figure to more than double by 2010.
 More important, he wants at least 60 percent of G.E.'s incremental revenue growth to come from such countries, and analysts applaud that thought. ''The developing world is G.E.'s best option for delivering sustainable double-digit growth over the next 5 to 10 years,'' said Deane M. Dray, an analyst at Goldman Sachs who rates G.E. shares as outperform.
 Ferdinando Beccalli-Falco, chief executive of GE International and its self-described ''minister of foreign affairs,'' insists that G.E. is in prime shape to exercise that option. ''We're hitting the sweet spot between the needs of these countries and our product portfolio,'' he said. 
 That sweet spot could quickly sour, of course. Dealing with volatile governments and cultures is rarely as easy as dealing with customers like Boeing, or even Airbus. ''One thing we learned from the Roman Empire, the geopolitical risks get more dangerous as you move farther from Rome,'' said Richard D. Steinberg, the president of Steinberg Global Asset Management, which counts G.E. shares as its largest holding. 
 Still, despite the caveat, ''G.E. is taking the right route to growth,'' Mr. Steinberg said.
 Other investors agree. ''Developing countries provide perfect opportunities for G.E. to leverage its strength and size,'' said Roger R. Threlfall, a senior managing analyst at the Dreyfus Corporation, which holds G.E. shares. 
 So just as Mr. Welch expanded G.E. by offering to help corporate customers thrive, Mr. Immelt has been offering the leaders of developing nations help in building their economies. ''I'm fast becoming G.E.'s chief sales rep,'' Mr. Immelt said. 
 Indeed, most of the management and marketing changes he has made, although seemingly unrelated at first glance, are aimed at helping G.E. develop a company-to-country marketing approach. 
 He has invested in industries he calls ''growth engines'' -- many of them, like water, security and health care, with particular appeal to developing countries. He has inaugurated an internal ''imagination breakthrough'' program, asking G.E.'s executives to come up with new ideas for growth, including better ways of doing business in the developing world.
 One plan that G.E. expects will soon yield $100 million in sales involves shipping unassembled locomotives to Russia, India and China, and hiring locals to assemble them. 
 Mr. Immelt split the cumbersome GE Capital into four businesses, a move he described as making the financial services arm more transparent to investors, but that he now says makes it easier to meld ''financial strategies and industrial assets.''
 For example, the units that lease airplanes or that finance energy systems now report to Mr. Calhoun, as do the units that make aircraft engines and oil and gas systems. That makes it easier to start the ball rolling on financing as a developing country is warming up to the idea of buying planes or turbines. 
 Mr. Immelt also introduced, amid much hoopla, an ''eco-imagination'' program, in which he promised that G.E. would create more environment-friendly products as well as curb pollution emanating from its own operations. He already predicts that G.E. ''is going to get a bunch'' of the $80 billion that it expects China to spend on fuel-efficient, low-pollutant products.
 ''We wanted a marketing campaign that could span lots of our divisions, and hooking it to the environment seemed logical,'' Mr. Immelt said. 
 Then, last month, he tied the seemingly disparate initiatives together. He said that, as of July 5, G.E.'s 11 businesses would be consolidated into 6: GE Industrial; GE Commercial Financial Services; NBC Universal; GE Healthcare; GE Consumer Finance and, perhaps most important, GE Infrastructure, the one with the headiest growth prospects.
 The consolidation may yield savings of $200 million to $300 million in administrative costs, adding as much as 2 cents a share to G.E.'s earnings next year.
 ''Jeff has transformed the portfolio so that the company is again focused on the industrial end,'' said Daniel J. Rosenblatt, an analyst with Babson Capital Management, which holds G.E. shares in several growth funds. 
 The reorganization was a back-to-the-future move of sorts, in that the new setup is more reminiscent of the eight business sectors that existed under Reginald H. Jones, Mr. Welch's predecessor, than of the 13 businesses that Mr. Immelt inherited four years ago.
 ''Jack got rid of the strategic planners, the multiple staff support positions, all the bureaucracy that existed with the old sectors,'' said Noel M. Tichy, a professor at the University of Michigan Business School. ''Jeff has simplified the structure to make it easier for customers to understand.''
 Mr. Immelt's changes do bring risks. Although energy and aircraft-related financing will be part of GE Infrastructure, GE Capital retains the final say on whether any customer poses an ''acceptable risk'' for a loan, a hurdle that may be hard for developing countries to overcome. ''If a customer asks for financing, we will bring everything we have to bear to try to get it,'' said Mr. Calhoun, who is on the GE Capital board. 
 The environmental push, meanwhile, may refocus a spotlight on an issue that has dogged G.E. for years: whether it should be responsible for dredging the Hudson River to remove chemicals that it legally discharged some 30 years ago.
 Mr. Immelt said that G.E. had made a ''defined set of commitments'' to the Environmental Protection Agency and has set aside money to clean up the Hudson. But many environmental groups still criticize G.E. for what they see as recalcitrance, and have branded the eco-imagination project as primarily a public relations campaign.
 Moreover, G.E. must set up assembly plants and otherwise invest in the developing world. ''These are cash-consuming areas, so the immediate return on total capital might be low,'' said Steven J. Schneider, the president of G.E.'s Asia Pacific operations.
 In addition, G.E. faces competition from companies like Nalco in water, United Technologies in aircraft engines and Siemens in health care. 
 Still, for G.E., the allure of selling to the developing world trumps the risks. Such deals would extend the life cycle of many products. Mr. Immelt noted that older aircraft sell well in Russia, while India is a prime market for lower-end X-ray machines.
 The strategy can shelter G.E. from the impact of soaring oil prices, in that ''higher oil prices will enable the OPEC countries to spend large sums on their own infrastructure,'' said David A. Bleustein, an analyst at UBS Investment Research, who rates G.E. a buy. 
 And, by selling infrastructure in developing countries now, G.E. may also be increasing the chance that, if and when wealth trickles down to the working class, those people will turn to G.E. for credit cards, loans and other consumer finance assistance.
 Mr. Immelt concedes that the G.E. brand, for now, is fairly obscure in those countries. ''Because we don't sell consumer products, we just aren't as well known outside the U.S.,'' he said. 
 G.E. is already finding ways to remedy that. The research center it opened in Shanghai last year includes a huge atrium in which G.E.'s products are showcased. G.E. will soon double the center's size.
 ''We still locate our centers where we can get access to the best minds,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''But, yes,'' he conceded, ''these days, at least 20 percent of the decision is marketing.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about General Electric's international sales efforts misstated the company's 2001 earnings. They were $13.684 billion, not $30 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Making aircraft engines and the loans to finance their purchase are areas that fall under the same executive. (Photo by Sara D. Davis/Associated Press)
 David L. Calhoun leads the infrastructure unit, which focuses on sales to emerging countries. (Photo by General Electric via Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Looking Abroad''Foreign sales are a growing share of General Electric's business. Most of those sales are in Europe, but the company is seeking to expand its business in fast-growing developing nations.Graph tracks General Electric's revenue for both the United States and Foreign countries from 2001-2004.Foreign:2001: 41%2002: 40%2003: 45%2004: 47%Graph tracks FOREIGN REVENUE, 2004Europe: 55%Pacific basin: 22%(Includes China, India and Japan)Americas: 13%(Canada, Central and South America)Other: 10%(Includes Middle East and Africa)(Source by General Electric)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); TRENDS (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); AIRLINES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); EXECUTIVES (55%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%) Third World and Developing Countries; Airlines and Airplanes; Railroads; Water; Energy and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co; General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JACK WELCH (58%) Claudia H Deutsch; Jeffrey R Immelt; David L Calhoun

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



313 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Compromise May Extend Terrorism Insurance Aid 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
A compromise appears to be taking shape to extend a federal program that would pay most of the commercial insurance losses in a major terrorist attack, easing months of uncertainty about the program's future. 
 A proposal outlined by Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, and backed by Republican leaders in Congress, would increase costs for insurance companies and reduce the range of coverage. But the insurers are willing to consider those changes as a trade-off for achieving their main goal: the extension of the program that requires the government to pay the bulk of insurance losses in a terrorist attack up to $100 billion.
''The prognosis has gone from grim to quite hopeful,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, an industry trade group in New York. 
 In recent weeks, ''there had been some negative comments from the administration,'' Mr. Hartwig said, and ''there did not seem to be any great sense of urgency in Congress.''
 The insurers contend that a major attack or a series of attacks could bankrupt them and that they could not survive without government backing. The current program, known as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, was established in response to the World Trade Center attacks in 2001 and is set to expire at the end of this year.
 Concerned that government support might end, insurance companies have been issuing policies with a provision that automatically revokes terrorism coverage on Jan. 1, unless Congress approves an extension. Real estate companies, builders and some elected officials have argued, along with the insurers, that a loss of terrorism coverage could slow construction and real estate sales and harm the economy.
 The insurers said they were dismayed by a Treasury Department report in late June that recommended against renewal of the program and by critical comments from Senator Richard C. Shelby, the Alabama Republican who is chairman of the Banking Committee, and Representative Michael G. Oxley, a Republican and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 All contended that government backing reduced the incentive for insurers to develop a private terrorism insurance program. 
 But in testimony before Congress on Wednesday, less than a week after terrorists' bombs exploded in London, killing more than 50 people, Mr. Snow said that ''no one is talking about ending'' the government backing, adding, ''What we are talking about is revamping the program.''
 Mr. Oxley said the ''potential damage to the economy is large'' if the program ended, and the next day Senator Shelby told reporters that he believed that some type of terrorism insurance program would be adopted by Congress this year. 
 Ramani Ayer, the chief executive of the Hartford Financial Services Group, who has been traveling around the country trying to build support for an extension of the program, said the shift in Washington made him optimistic that government backing would continue. 
 Under the current program, the insurance companies are required to pay up to 15 percent of their premium, or about $30 billion, in a terrorist attack. From then on, up to $100 billion, the government is to pay 90 percent of the losses. The government now begins to share costs with the insurers after an attack with as little as $5 million in losses.
 The proposal calls for an as-yet unspecified increase in the percentage paid by insurers and a hundredfold rise, to $500 million, in the amount that puts the program into effect. The proposal calls for withdrawing government backing for terrorism coverage for commercial auto fleets and general liability.
 The insurers are wary of how high the administration and Congress may try to push their industry's share of the losses. But they say they can readily agree to raising the attachment point, as the insurers say, to $500 million. 
 ''Nobody in the industry cares whether the attachment point is $5 million or $500 million,'' said W.R. Berkley, the chief executive of the W.R. Berkley Corporation, a property casualty company. ''The issue is what do you do in an horrendous event where the industry doesn't have the capacity to respond.''
 The insurers would prefer the continued coverage of commercial fleets and generally liability and to expand coverage to group life insurance, said Robert Rusbuldt, chief executive of the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America. But, he said, ''I don't think issues like that are deal breakers.''
 In its report arguing for an end to the government support, the Treasury said private reinsurance, which insurers buy to spread their risks, was increasingly available. But the insurers contend that they are only able to buy reinsurance to cover less than 20 percent of their current terrorism risk and that there would be less coverage without the government program. 
 ''The bottom line is that there is no appetite now'' for private reinsurers to offer terrorism coverage, said Mr. Rusbuldt, especially after the bombings in London and, in 2004, in Madrid. ''What reinsurance company in its right mind is going to take on that sort of risk?'' he asked.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has outlined a plan that may preserve a program for commercial insurers. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); INSURANCE (91%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); AIRLINES (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%) Terrorism; Insurance; World Trade Center (NYC); Hijacking; Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (76%); RAMANI AYER (53%) Joseph B Treaster; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



314 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Contraceptive Sales Status On Calendar At F.D.A.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said on Friday that it would decide by Sept. 1 whether to allow sales of an emergency contraceptive without a prescription, apparently clearing the way for a Senate vote on President Bush's nominee to head the Food and Drug Administration.
 Women in the United States now need prescriptions to obtain the contraceptive, known as Plan B or the ''morning after'' pill.
 Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, said the drug agency would make a decision by Sept. 1 on whether to allow over-the-counter sales of the product. 
 The manufacturer, Barr Laboratories, has asked the F.D.A. to allow such sales of Plan B for women 16 or older. Women 15 or younger would still need prescriptions. 
 Senators Patty Murray of Washington and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, both Democrats, claimed victory in their effort to force a decision on the emergency contraceptive. The senators said they would now allow a vote on the nomination of Dr. Lester M. Crawford to be commissioner of food and drugs. They had previously blocked a vote, saying the Bush administration had improperly delayed a decision on Plan B.
 Mrs. Clinton said it appeared that the agency had ''substituted politics and ideology for science and facts.'' But now, with a deadline for a decision on Plan B, she said, ''we have agreed to release our hold on Dr. Crawford's nomination.''
 Dr. Crawford, a veterinarian and a pharmacologist, has been acting commissioner since March 2004.
 Ms. Murray said Plan B could significantly reduce unwanted pregnancies. In an interview, she noted that two federal advisory committees had voted overwhelmingly to support over-the-counter sales of the tablets.
 Critics of Plan B, including some conservatives, have said that wider access to emergency contraceptives might increase risky behavior among young women and girls. In May 2004, federal drug regulators rejected Barr's application to sell the drug over the counter. They said the company had not shown that it could be used safely by ''young adolescent women'' without a doctor's supervision.
 Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, a liberal advocacy group, said Friday that she was ''cautiously optimistic that women will soon have better access to the emergency contraception they need.''
 Karen Pearl, interim president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said, ''It's high time for the F.D.A.'' to make a decision.
 ''Research indicates that widespread availability of emergency contraception could prevent 1.7 million unintended pregnancies and 800,000 abortions each year in the United States,'' Ms. Pearl said.
 A Republican senator, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, had blocked a vote on Dr. Crawford's nomination for another reason. Mr. Coburn wanted the drug agency to require new labels for condoms warning that they do not fully protect against certain sexually transmitted diseases. John Hart, a spokesman for Mr. Coburn, said Friday that the senator had agreed to allow a vote after the Bush administration assured him that his concerns would be addressed.
 Other senators could still raise objections. But at the moment, it appears that Senate Republican leaders can schedule a vote on the nomination as the White House wants.
 Plan B is supposed to be used within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse, but it is most effective when taken sooner. ''If you have to get an appointment to go to a doctor and then go to a pharmacy, it may be too late,'' Ms. Murray said.
 The drug agency regulates products accounting for a large share of the nation's economy. Bush administration officials, consumer advocates and some business executives say that the agency urgently needs permanent leadership to improve the regulation of prescription drugs and to restore public confidence in the safety of products on the market.
 In a letter to the Senate, Secretary Leavitt said that the decision on Plan B ''rests solely with the F.D.A. and must be made according to the scientific evidence and F.D.A.'s authority.'' Accordingly, he said, ''I am not a part of this decision-making process'' for the drug.
 But Mr. Leavitt said he had spoken to agency officials, and ''based on the feedback I have received, the F.D.A. will act on this application by Sept. 1.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PHARMACOLOGY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); FAMILY (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ABORTION (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%) Birth Control and Family Planning; Plan B (Contraceptive)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TOM COBURN (58%); MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Lester M (Dr) Crawford

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005



315 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: HUMAN ARSENAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Blowing Up in the West

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE young man was poor and without prospects, but that was not why he carried the bomb. He had not been recruited and was not out for revenge, he said, but simply longed to fulfill ''the love of martyrdom.'' As he lugged his heavy black bag toward an Israeli bus stop, his main worry was not moral but practical. The bomb, evidently derived from fertilizer, smelled terrible, and might give him away. He bought a $3 bottle of perfume and doused it. 
 He was a figure out of a nightmare scenario of cultish, facile killing and self-destruction. But he was real enough, a Palestinian named Zaydan Zaydan, 18. He was interviewed in an Israeli hospital three years ago after the bomb went off, wounding only him.
 
 The nightmare assumed a new form last week when British authorities revealed that four British men were suspected of detonating the explosions that killed at least 54 people and injured hundreds in downtown London on July 7. Framed by new suicide attacks in Israel and Iraq, the news suggested the European breakout of suicide violence that many had feared since the Sept. 11 attacks. The British authorities were initially careful not to call the men suicide bombers, though they said all four died in the bombings.
 If the attacks were Islamist suicide bombings, they were the first such strikes in Western Europe, terrorism experts said. This was once a freakish phenomenon, and then a more frequent but concentrated one, confined to battlegrounds like Lebanon and Chechnya. But a ''love of martyrdom,'' with its paired desire to kill indiscriminately, may now have taken hold in Leeds, England, just as it did for Zaydan Zaydan in his hometown, Jenin, on the West Bank. 
 With the successful deployment of a human delivery system, terrorists in Europe appeared to have at hand the same arsenal -- hardware-store ingredients, some secrecy and cunning, and a lethal ideology -- that they have used to torment Middle Eastern societies. 
 Yet while there was new cause for fear, there was also reason for hope. Experts on terrorism said the danger of suicide attack was rising, but that outside of areas embroiled in conflict it was still partly contained by a firewall of social condemnation. ''One should not draw too many parallels between what is happening in the Middle East and what is happening elsewhere,'' said Efraim Halevy, a former chief of Mossad, Israel's spy agency. ''It's not the same balance of power within the community,'' he said. ''That's No.1. That's very important.''
 Still, Mr. Halevy added, while the parallels might be limited, some did exist. ''The threat is such that a very small number of people can bring about an act of such devastating consequences,'' he said.
 Several experts on terrorism said they would not be surprised if suicide had indeed emerged as a weapon in the hands of native Muslim terrorists in Western Europe. ''What I'm most surprised about is that it hasn't happened before now,'' said Lance Emory, who served with the F.B.I. in Britain from 1998 to 2003. 
 Mr. Emory said the British had ''done a pretty good job'' and had ''had successes'' disrupting attacks in the past. But suicide bombing is ''just the most difficult thing to try to ferret out,'' he said, ''because you've got someone who's totally committed.''
 Several terrorism experts said that with extremist preaching preparing the way, little sophisticated infrastructure is needed to conduct bombings like those in London.
 ''I don't think it needs a recruiting system at all,'' Mr. Halevy said. ''All it needs is that there should be in place a very small capacity which would enable young people who wish to follow this path to find their way to Afghanistan and Pakistan, to get training.'' He added, ''The masterminds, they're not looking for multitudes of people.'' Out of 1.6 million Muslims in Britain, he said, there was bound to be ''a small nucleus of people who were extreme.'' 
 Fighting in Iraq and the West Bank and Gaza appears to be further fanning the desire -- or supplying the rationale -- for violence, increasing estrangement from the surrounding non-Muslim community. Some terrorist experts also warned that European jihadists who went to fight in Iraq or Afghanistan were returning with new skills. 
 This does not mean, however, that counterterrorist experts anticipate a wave of suicide bombings in Europe, like what Israel experienced in 2002. '' There is no general support for this kind of militancy in the communities from which the suicides -- the Muslim militants in Europe -- come,'' said Ariel Merari, a professor at Tel Aviv University and an Israeli authority on terrorism. ''If you look at the history and geography of suicide attacks worldwide, you will find that the great, great majority of them took place in places and at times where there was an acute conflict.'' He listed Israel, Iraq, Chechnya and Lebanon in the 1980's. 
 Even in Muslim countries like Morocco, Tunisia and Indonesia -- subjected to suicide attacks on a Bali nightclub in 2002 and a Jakarta hotel in 2003 -- episodic terrorism has not developed into a sustained suicide campaign. 
 Britain has begun a painful inquiry into the priming of its bombers. Politics tends to constrict serious discussion of the influences driving suicide bombers, with Islam's defenders reluctant to explore its role and its critics reluctant to explore the effects of misery and conflict.
 Yet Palestinian suicide bombers -- maybe the most closely studied sample -- defy simple categorization. All have been Muslim, but not all have been deeply devout; some were impoverished, others relatively affluent and educated; some had lost loved ones to the conflict, while others had not; some were manipulated by recruiters; others seemed to recruit themselves. 
 In the West Bank and Gaza in the peak years of the second Palestinian intifada, suicidal killing achieved first a heroic or celebrity status, then a self-reinforcing normalcy. Posters and music videos celebrated ''martyrs.'' Where once a suicide attacker underwent weeks of indoctrination and preparation, including prayer and fasting, young men like Zaydan Zaydan -- and young women -- received little more instruction than how to press a button. It became a cliche of both Palestinian militant leaders and Israeli security officials that the terrorist bottleneck was the bomb, not the bomber. 
 While some voices were raised in criticism of suicide bombing, far more praised or at least accepted it. Iyad Sarraj, a Palestinian psychiatrist in Gaza City, said early this year that glorifying death gave Palestinians a way out of despair and that killing allowed some to feel powerful rather than helpless, as they saw their fathers. Though he opposed suicide bombing, he said he could not criticize martyrs. ''They are untouchable people -- they are prophets, they are saints,'' he said. ''This is what the culture believes.''
 Some social science studies have found that suicide can move through a population like an epidemic, with the transgressive act of one young person lowering the threshold for others to follow. Michael Clarke, a professor of defense studies at King's College in London, expressed the fear that others who want to be famous might now emulate the British bombers. 
 ''The people who have to address this are our own Muslim community,'' Mr. Clarke said. ''We all know that there are corners in this Muslim society where they tolerate rabble-rousing preachers and they tolerate anti-Semitism, and that is what they havegot to address.''
 At least one of the young men from Leeds was from an affluent family, and none were particularly poor or unhappy, according to press reports. At least two had become devout. At least two had traveled to Pakistan. At least some of their parents clearly opposed such violence. A breakthrough for the police came when the mother of one, fearing her son was a victim of the bombings, informed police he was missing.
 Jessica Stern, a lecturer at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government and the author of ''Terror in the Name of God,'' spent part of the spring in the Netherlands investigating the attitudes of young Muslims there. She said she feared that for some of them, violent Islamism had become a fad. 
 For some, she said, ''To be angry and rebellious these days is to be angry, rebellious and Islamist, and, unfortunately, to be violent.'' In a previous era, she observed, they might have embraced Marxism. She said that while these young people experienced some prejudice and economic hardship, their grievances were reinforced by ''a feeling of vicarious humiliation'' of Muslims elsewhere. The radicalism of some appeared driven less by contact with a charismatic cleric than by what they found for themselves on the Internet. 
 ''They self-recruit, self-radicalize, and they go and find their own imam,'' Ms. Stern said. ''So the picture that we have, that all we have to do is watch those fiery imams, or go into the mosques -- well, those days are over.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Feeding a suicidal impulse and what can stop it.''EPIDEMIC EFFECT -- Initial suicide bombings can lower the psychological barrier for others to followANGER -- Some European Muslims feel vicarious humiliation because of conditions of Muslims elsewhere.SOCIAL DISAPPROVAL -- In general, Muslim communities in Europe are far less radicalized than in the Middle East.PEACE -- Sustained suicide bombing typically takes place in areas of sustained conflict, like Israel, Iraq, Chechnya and Lebanon.(Joon Mo Kang and Bill Marsh/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); ESPIONAGE (67%); SUICIDE (67%) Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Transit Systems; Islam

PERSON: James Bennet

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); LEBANON (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); ENGLAND (56%) Great Britain; London (Eng); Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



316 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; BEST SELLERS: July 17, 2005; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1294 words

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	2	ELEVEN ON TOP, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $26.95.) As she tries to leave the world of bounty hunting for good, Stephanie Plum comes to realize a lunatic is stalking her.		 	 	 	 2	2	3	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	 3		1	MIRACLE, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $20.) When a terrible storm hits Northern California, the lives of three people are changed forever.		 	 	 	 4	3	120	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	 5	4	13	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk who is just months away from taking his final vows.		 	 	 	 6	6	12	TRUE BELIEVER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) A hip young New Yorker finds love with a beautiful librarian who lives in North Carolina.		 	 	 	 7	5	9	4TH OF JULY, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) Detective Lindsay Boxer, a member of the Women's Murder Club, investigates a series of killings while she herself is on trial.		 	 	 	 8	7	4	A LONG WAY DOWN, by Nick Hornby. (Riverhead, $24.95.) On New Year's Eve, four would-be suicides gather on a London rooftop.		 	 	 	 9		1	*CROSS BONES, by Kathy Reichs. (Scribner, $25.95.) The murder of an Orthodox Jewish man in Montreal leads the forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan to Israel, where she encounters a biblical mystery.		 	 	 	 10		1	FIRE SALE, by Sara Paretsky. (Putnam, $25.95.) After a manufacturing plant explodes on the South Side of Chicago, the private eye V. I. Warshawski confronts the family that owns the By-Smart discount store chain.		 	 	 	 11		1	72 HOUR HOLD, by Bebe Moore Campbell. (Knopf, $24.95.) Trying to help her bipolar 18-year-old daughter, a woman enlists the aid of a radical group of psychiatrists that models itself on the Underground Railroad.		 	 	 	 12	9	6	VELOCITY, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) A bartender becomes an unwitting accomplice in choosing a serial killer's next victim. 		 	 	 	 13		1	THE TRAVELER, by John Twelve Hawks. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A band of warriors known as the Harlequins seeks to protect good prophets from evil mercenaries.		 	 	 	 14	8	3	DANCE OF DEATH, by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. (Warner, $25.95.) An F.B.I. agent contends with a murdering madman -- his own brother. 		 	 	 	 15	11	7	THE CLOSERS, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) Detective Harry Bosch probes the long-ago death of a 16-year-old girl.			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	 1	1	6	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	 2	4	12	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	 3	3	13	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	 4	2	2	THE TRUTH ABOUT HILLARY, by Edward Klein. (Sentinel, $24.95.) An unflattering portrait of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.		 	 	 	 5	5	25	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	 6	6	16	ON BULL/ / / /, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A moral philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	 7		1	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all memoir by a dancer and actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	 8		1	SILENT WITNESS, by Mark Fuhrman. (Morrow, $25.95.) The former detective with the Los Angeles Police Department looks at the Terri Schiavo case.		 	 	 	 9	7	40	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers a lavishly illustrated parody of a civics textbook.		 	 	 	 10	13	2	LANCE ARMSTRONG'S WAR, by Daniel Coyle. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) How the great cyclist won his sixth Tour de France in 2004. 		 	 	 	 11	12	4	OBJECTION! by Nancy Grace with Diane Clehane. (Hyperion, $24.95.) A Court TV personality and former prosecutor attacks criminals and their attorneys.		 	 	 	 12	15	2	THE DEVIL'S TEETH, by Susan Casey. (Holt, $25.) A journalist's account of shark season on the Farallon Islands, off the coast of Northern California.		 	 	 	 13	8	14	THREE NIGHTS IN AUGUST, by Buzz Bissinger. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A three-game series in 2003 between the Cubs and the Cardinals, as seen through the eyes of Tony La Russa, the St. Louis manager. 		 	 	 	 14	11	25	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation, by the author of ''Guns, Germs, and Steel,'' into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	 	 15		5	SHOOTER, by Jack Coughlin and Casey Kuhlman with Donald A. Davis. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) The autobiography of the Marine Corps' top-ranked sniper.	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended July 2, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

THE DISAPPOINTMENT ARTIST: And Other Essays, by Jonathan Lethem. (Doubleday, $22.95.) Evocative revisitings of the neighborhood by the author of ''Motherless Brooklyn.''

THE GENIUS FACTORY: The Curious History of the Nobel Prize Sperm Bank, by David Plotz. (Random House, $24.95.) A reproductive technology that turned out to be unwanted.

THE GOLDEN WEST: Hollywood Stories, by Daniel Fuchs. (Black Sparrow/Godine, $24.95.) Stories and essays by a skilled novelist who packed it in for movie work in the 1930's.

GARBAGE LAND: On the Secret Trail of Trash, by Elizabeth Royte. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Weird stuff that happens to what we discard.

LION OF HOLLYWOOD: The Life and Legend of Louis B. Mayer, by Scott Eyman. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The movie mogul who invented the American dream and sold it to the country.

DEATH AND THE SUN: A Matador's Season in the Heart of Spain, by Edward Lewine. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) The state of the bullfighting art and a profile of the current Ordonez clan chief.

AMERICAN GOTHIC: A Life of America's Most Famous Painting, by Steven Biel. (Norton, $21.95.) The making of a national icon.

CROSSWORLD: One Man's Journey Into America's Crossword Obsession, by Marc Romano. (Broadway, $24.95.) Levels of a game whose experts are as inexplicable as chess wizards.

THE PRINCE OF THE CITY: Giuliani, New York and the Genius of American Life, by Fred Siegel with Harry Siegel. (Encounter, $26.95.) Giuliani viewed as the Machiavellian prophet of an alternative urban policy and as an eligible president.

BLIND SPOT: The Secret History of American Counterterrorism, by Timothy Naftali. (Basic Books, $26.) An argument that terrorism has often threatened us but seldom been dealt with.

A STRANGE DEATH, by Hillel Halkin. (PublicAffairs, $26.) An Israeli writer's meditation on a Jewish spy ring that worked for Britain in Ottoman Palestine, with reverberations even now.

 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WOMEN (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FORENSICS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); HISTORY (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); SUICIDE (63%); RETAILERS (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (76%); JAMES PATTERSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



317 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Easing Anxiety On Mass Transit

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
AFTER the Sept. 11 terror attacks, the federal government took immediate steps to secure airplanes. Cockpit doors were locked, passengers thoroughly searched. 
 But it has been harder to ease the fears of bus and subway passengers after the July 7 attacks on London's mass transit system. The very virtues of mass transit -- easy access, frequent service and central locations -- make it vulnerable. From 1991 to 2001, 42 percent of all terrorist attacks worldwide occurred on trains or buses, according to a recent study by the Brookings Institution. 
 The United States mass transit system also lacks the aviation system's built-in security: limited accessibility, a ticketing system that requires identification and a single governing agency, the Federal Aviation Administration. By contrast, the Federal Transit Administration has little say over security policies. That's left to the country's 6,000 mass transit agencies.
 Money is another problem. Since Sept. 11, 2001, the federal government has appropriated $250 million for transit security, compared with $18.1 billion for aviation security. 
 Given the problems, what can transit systems do? What follows is a review of the latest in technology and tactics. SEWELL CHAN

Bridges
 Challenge -- Until recently, an attack on a bridge -- outside of wartime -- seemed almost beyond contemplation. But experts are concerned about long-span suspension bridges, not only because they are vital for interstate commerce, but because a bombed bridge is a potent, terrifying image and therefore a lure for terrorists.
 Strategy -- After World War I, engineers argued that a bomb on the deck of a suspension bridge wasn't much of a threat, because ''the primary structures of a suspension bridge are the cables and the towers,'' said Darl Rastorfer, the author of a book on Othmar H. Ammann, the noted bridge designer.
 Bridges, like the Golden Gate in San Francisco, pictured right, were built with contingencies. ''There is redundancy in the general design of a suspension bridge,'' Mr. Rastorfer said. ''So even if one primary suspension cable was compromised, there are backup cables that are designed to take extra load.''
 After 9/11, patrols of bridges and the waterways under them have become far more common. On many bridges, some car trunks are searched, and trucks are restricted. Some toll plazas have nearly as many cameras and security guards as airports. Bridge operators, including the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in New York, have tightened security around anchorages, which secure the cables.
 While a bridge attack would be terrifying, casualties may not be high. ''Bridges are big, tough things,'' said Rod Diridon Sr., director of the Mineta Transportation Institute at San Jose State University in California. ''You're not going to bring a bridge down with a knapsack of explosives, or even a truckful, unless it's in a strategic, precise place.''

Trains
 Challenge -- An attack on the subway system is much more than just an attack on a subway train. ''What you have is terrorism as a form of urban warfare rather than as a symbolic gesture,'' said Juliette N. Kayyem, a terrorism scholar at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. ''It causes mass havoc, economic disruption or uncertainty, and obviously casualties. But it also cuts to the core of what it means to live in an urban environment.''
 Attacks have already occurred. In 1995, there was a sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway, and the London subway system has been bombed many times by the Irish Republican Army. In 1997, New York police uncovered a plot to bomb a subway station. 
 Strategy -- After a series of accidents in the early 1990's, rail operators posted better evacuation instructions and installed windows that could be easily popped out in an emergency, said Christopher A. Kozub, an associate director at the National Transit Institute, a federally supported training organization at Rutgers University. 
 Since the 1970's, cameras in train stations and platforms have proliferated and become more advanced. Clunky black-and-white cameras are being replaced by sharper digital video recorders. And the Houston transit authority is testing on-board cameras that can wirelessly transmit live, high-resolution color images. Several agencies, including New Jersey Transit, are experimenting with ''smart cameras'' that will automatically alert the authorities when a suspicious package is left behind. The cameras are hooked up to computer software that uses algorithms to tell the difference between a person and a package.

Terminals
 Challenge -- Few targets are more vulnerable than a crowded, centrally located train terminal. The damage in London could have been much worse, if the bombers had attacked Victoria or Paddington station instead. 
 ''The bombers in London, if they had wanted to target more carefully, could have shut down the transportation system to a much greater degree,'' said Magnus Ranstorp, director of the Center for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St. Andrews, in Scotland.
 Strategy -- Much has already been done to protect Grand Central Terminal, right, which is believed to be the busiest train station in the world, with 700,000 people passing through it each weekday. After Sept. 11, 2001, the perimeter of the station was secured with concrete barriers, which will soon be replaced by metal bollards. Inside are three kinds of sensors that can detect biological or chemical agents. The most advanced sensor, called an Autonomous Pathogen Detection System, is designed to detect chemical agents and set off alarms at a nearby police control room. A ceiling camera, designed to look like the dome of a light fixture, allows police to observe victims of a chemical attack and, perhaps, to identify attackers. 
 Bruce Hoffman, a counterterrorism expert at the RAND Corporation, views train terminals as a likely target of any suicide attack. ''Inherently, suicide terrorism is about killing people, wherever there are vulnerable targets and collections of people in fairly compact space,'' he said.

Buses
 Challenge -- Buses are particularly easy to attack, because they operate at street level, without any station to impede the attacker. Of the 9.5 billion public transit trips taken each year in the United States, buses account for 60 percent.
 Strategy -- In Israel, many buses, right, have explosive detectors and drivers can quickly activate barriers that block a suspected bomber from entering the bus, said Mr. Hoffman of RAND. 
 Some Israeli buses have rear exit gates that swing open only from the inside, far right, making it tougher for a bomber to board. Bus drivers also have been trained to open the doors in an attack, which disperses both the force of the blast and any shrapnel. 
 But making a bus blastproof would be far too expensive, said Mr. Kozub of the National Transit Institute. And because buses must be operated in regular traffic, he said, they will always be vulnerable to roadside or car bombs.
 A single bus attack is unlikely to cause structural damage or kill great numbers of people. In the West, ''compared to the masses of people that are gathered together in underground in confined spaces, buses have been found to be a less desirable target,'' said Mr. Diridon of the Mineta Transportation Institute.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
(Photo by Gali Tibbon/Agence France-Presse)
 (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Oded Balilty/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRAINS (73%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%); CIVIL AVIATION (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); WORLD WAR I (65%); WRITERS (62%) Transit Systems; Terrorism; Bridges and Tunnels; Subways; Buses; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Security and Warning Systems

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



318 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article on July 3 about changes in standards of living in the United States misidentified the Massachusetts employers of two profiled workers, Tom and Marie DeSisto. Mr. 
DeSisto is a teacher at Waltham High School, not in Newton, and Mrs. DeSisto is director of nursing for the public schools of Waltham, not Framingham.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING STANDARDS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%) United States Economy; Correction Stories; Life Styles; Books and Literature

PERSON: Marie Desisto; Tom Desisto; Sloan Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



319 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; Sunday Business; DataBank; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Healthy Earnings Help the Market Climb Again

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
Strong economic data and healthy earnings reports from companies like PepsiCo and Apple Computer took the stock market higher last week for the third consecutive week. On Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reached a four-year high. 
 Contrary to expectations, inflation in most categories appeared to be nearly nonexistent in June, on both the consumer and the producer side, government reports showed. Robust retail sales and a surge in industrial production also appeared to give investors a signal to buy.
A downward trend in oil prices helped give an upward push to the stock market, as gulf coast production revived after Hurricane Dennis. But fears over the next hurricane on the way, Emily, caused oil to inch higher on Friday. For the week, crude oil for August delivery closed in New York at $58.09 a barrel, down 2.6 percent from $59.63 the previous week. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 191.69 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 10,640.83. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 16.06 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 1,227.92. The Nasdaq composite index rose 43.90 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,156.78. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note climbed to 4.16 percent from 4.09 percent. PHYLLIS KORKKI


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.PepsiCoNYSE: PEPThe company said its quarterly profit rose 13 percent as strong growth in its overseas businesses offset weak sales of carbonated drinks in the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $55.45WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.59%EST. '05 P/E: 21.35Apple ComputerNNM: AAPLOn the strength of its popular iPod digital music player and impressive personal computer sales, Apple reported quarterly earnings that far outpaced Wall Street's expectations. Revenue soared 75 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $41.55WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.63%EST. '05 P/E: 29.81DreamWorksAnimation SKGNYSE: DWAThe moviemaker lowered its earnings estimates for the quarter and year because of disappointing DVD sales of ''Shrek 2'' and ''Shark Tale,'' and said it would delay a $500 million stock offering.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.00WEEK'S CHANGE: -14.21%EST. '05 P/E: 27.987-ElevenNYSE: SEThe convenience-store chain said its June sales approached $1.15 billion, up 9.1 percent from June 2004. The company said its gasoline sales grew 13 percent in June, to $412.4 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.77WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.91%EST. '05 P/E: 30.66Marvel EnterprisesNYSE: MVLShares of the comic-book company soared after the movie ''Fantastic Four,'' of which Marvel was a co-producer, took in $56 million in its opening weekend. The figure was almost twice as large as expected.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $22.12WEEK'S CHANGE: +15.03%EST. '05 P/E: 19.25GenentechNYSE: DNAThe biotechnology company said its second-quarter profit jumped 73 percent as doctors prescribed more of its cancer drug Avastin. Sales of Avastin surged 85 percent in the United States, to $245.7 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $89.58WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.71%EST. '05 P/E: 75.66Manor CareNYSE: HCRThe nursing-home chain lowered its second-quarter earnings target to 41 to 43 cents a share because of declines in occupancy. The revised range was lower than what Wall Street was expecting.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $36.15WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.06%EST. '05 P/E: 17.82Southwest AirlinesNYSE: LUVThe low-cost airline said that its quarterly profit rose 41 percent from a year earlier as fare increases helped offset a 25 percent jump in fuel costs per gallon. The airline said its sales climbed 13 percent in the period.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $14.22WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.01%EST. '05 P/E: 26.58(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HURRICANES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); RETAIL SALES (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (58%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

PERSON: phyllis korkki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



320 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: Housing Goes Frothy to Flat In Denver Area

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

DATELINE: PARKER, Colo., July 12 

 BODY:
Tom Woods, a 37-year-old defense industry consultant, wanted to build a nest egg for one of his young sons' college tuition. Inspired by rising prices for homes in this Denver suburb, three years ago he invested in a new three-bedroom townhouse for $155,000. His hopes were that renters would cover most of his mortgage and that the property's value would appreciate by at least $10,000 a year. 
 But last October, when Mr. Woods put the townhouse up for sale to help pay some unforeseen medical bills, there was more pain than gain: the house sat on the market for eight months. He finally found a buyer in June, but to seal the deal he had to make big concessions, including paying the buyer's closing costs. After handing over the keys on Friday, he ended up with a profit of just $10,000 for his three-year investment. 
 Even as prices for homes in frothy markets like Las Vegas; Riverside, Calif.; Miami; and Washington are still jumping by more than 20 percent a year, Denver's homeowners are learning the hard way about living through the real estate doldrums. Five years ago, median house prices were rising at an annual clip of nearly 17 percent. By the first quarter of 2005 the increase had slipped to 3 percent, according to an analysis by Economy.com, a research firm. 
 Still, some Denver homeowners have read reports in the news media of skyrocketing prices elsewhere and assume they are accumulating wealth in their homes at the same rapid pace. 
 ''I was surprised,'' Mr. Woods said. ''My expectations were higher.''
 Although sellers continue to profit, houses are sitting on the market longer, buyers are negotiating harder, and some owners, particularly young buyers who may have been counting on rapid appreciation, are postponing dreams of renovations, moves to larger homes and big savings for their families.
 With economists warning that prices in hot markets cannot continue to rise as sharply as they have in the past few years, the experience of Denver's homeowners may foreshadow what could happen if those markets start to cool. Denver's circumstances are in some ways particular to the area, driven largely by job losses in the telecom sector, but they illustrate how a moderate slowdown could play out for homeowners in other parts of the country and stand as a potent reminder that galloping price appreciation is not the norm. 
 Economists are divided as to whether certain markets will simply cool off, or whether they will actually melt and send prices plummeting, as happened in parts of California, New England and New York in the 1980's and early 1990's. Earlier this year, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said some metro areas were showing signs of ''froth.''
 Optimists point to Denver as a model of an adjusting real estate market. ''I think it's a good example of when a market softens, what happens,'' said David Lereah, the chief economist of the National Association of Realtors, a trade association. ''You see double-digit price appreciation go down to 4 percent or even 1 percent, and then it starts coming back to a historical norm of between 4 and 6 percent. That's very healthy. That's wonderful. It beats inflation.'' 
 But many analysts take a gloomier perspective, suggesting that the most heated markets could suffer more than Denver's so-called soft landing. ''I think Denver is a best-case scenario,'' said John H. Vogel Jr., adjunct professor of real estate at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. In the case of markets like Naples, Fla.; Miami; and New York, he said, ''I think you'll see dramatic price decreases because I think the prices have become artificially inflated by trading and speculation.''
 Denver's housing boom never quite reached the heights of Las Vegas's, for example, where home prices increased by nearly 33 percent in the first quarter of this year, according to Economy.com. But from 1998 through the third quarter of 2001, homeowners in sprawling Denver enjoyed double-digit appreciation as telecom employers like Qwest Communications International added jobs -- and homebuyers -- to the market. 
 From December 2000 to September 2003, however, Denver lost about 74,000 jobs, about 6 percent of its job base, according to Economy.com. Increases in home prices stalled, then started to taper off. Houses lingered on the market, and sellers were forced to cut prices. 
 Touring a development last week in Castle Rock, a southeastern suburb, Tom Santilli, an agent with Re/Max Alliance, pointed out a four-bedroom house that had not sold for five months, despite its impeccable condition. The price had been lowered to $396,500 from $419,000, but because of a few flaws -- a smallish family room, and white kitchen cabinets instead of wood and glass -- the sellers had ''not even had a low-ball offer'' after showing it to 65 prospective buyers, Mr. Santilli said. 
 Where buyers here had few properties to choose from in the late 1990's, today they can afford to be picky. Inventories of available homes have tripled from 8,010 in January 2000 to 25,817 in June, according to Gary Bauer, a real estate broker and consultant in Denver. 
 Sellers are also competing with homebuilders, who are offering incentives like discounted mortgage rates and free air-conditioning.
 At Sapphire Pointe, a subdivision in Castle Rock, huge beige and cream houses, dubbed prairie palaces by local residents, are clustered along curving lanes and cul-de-sacs. Last week the builder, D.R. Horton Continental Series, was offering a four-bedroom, 4,371-square-foot house for $489,697, $40,000 below the listed price. The builder had added upgrades that included fireplaces; granite countertops; and metal banister pickets on the curving staircase. The master bathroom was bigger than some studio apartments in Manhattan.
 Many sellers of existing homes are offering incentives of their own. When Mary Ann and Brian Kuklinski put their mocha-colored three-bedroom house on the market in May for $275,000, they knew that a house nearby had languished on the market for eight months. After five weeks and 30 showings, they reached a deal by lowering their price to $270,000 and throwing in their washer and dryer, the refrigerator, and a swing set in the backyard. 
 The Kuklinskis, who have three sons, ages 11, 7 and 5, paid $197,000 for their home in 1999 and ended up with enough appreciation to help with a down payment on a house they are building nearby, a $385,000 four-bedroom with a three-car garage. 
 But for other homeowners, the calculus of the 1990's that might have led them to trade up quickly no longer applies. ''When the market was strong, somebody would move up to a nicer home in two years because they had so much equity,'' said Karen Snyder, an owner of Metro Brokers Right Realty in Centennial, a suburb southeast of Denver. Now, she said, ''they're just staying put.'' 
 Those who had hoped to tap increased equity to pay for home improvements are also scrapping their plans. Gustavo Salazar, a high school math teacher, bought a small house with his fiancee, her sister and her boyfriend two years ago for $232,000. Earlier this year they decided to refinish the basement. But when they checked with their mortgage lender, they learned that they only had about $9,000 of equity in the house, less than the estimated $15,000 they would need for the project. 
 Mr. Salazar, 30, said he was shocked that the house had appreciated so little. ''I was thinking the market was going up because this is such a nice area,'' he said.
 Michelle Konishi and her husband, Jeff Konishi, were living in a four-bedroom, four-bathroom house not far from Mr. Salazar when they filed for divorce. They paid about $350,000 in 1999 to build their house, and put it on the market at $474,900 in April 2003. Five price cuts and 10 months later, they sold it for $405,500. Because they had invested in landscaping, a deck, carpeting and custom window coverings, Ms. Konishi said, the couple just about broke even. 
 Local analysts say it was inevitable that surging prices would not last. ''Now we're back to what I would portray as a normal market,'' said Mr. Bauer, the real estate consultant. ''Historically we had 5 percent appreciation, and now we have 5 percent appreciation.''
 While many homeowners have adjusted to the new reality, others pine for the good times that still exist in other markets. 
 When sellers come in with high expectations, Chad Ochsner, a managing broker with Re/Max Alliance, said he reminds them that ''just because it's like that in Las Vegas or Phoenix, that doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be the same way here in Denver.'' 
 If some of those places follow Denver's lead, it may be for reasons other than those that softened Denver's conditions, economists say. ''The thing that weighed on Denver's housing market was its job market,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. He added, ''The concern now is that interest rates rise and suck the wind out of housing demand.''
 In fact, analysts say the Denver market has remained as healthy as it has because of low mortgage rates as well as creative financing, including no-money-down and interest-only loans. Interest-only loans have accounted for a high rate -- 42 percent -- of purchase loans over $360,000 in Denver this year, according to LoanPerformance, a mortgage data firm. 
 That unnerves some economists, who say that even with appreciation of less than 5 percent, Denver's housing prices may be overvalued. 
 ''I think it is a very frothy market,'' said Tucker Hart Adams, the chief economist of the Rocky Mountain region for U.S. Bank, adding that those who bought homes with interest-only or variable-rate mortgages could be vulnerable. ''When rates start moving up, they're going to see their payments go up,'' she said. ''When people start getting nervous and start to sell, it's a downward spiral.''
 Despite the warnings, some of those like Mr. Woods, who have seen less than stellar returns, say they have not soured on real estate. Mr. Woods said he still hopes to invest in real estate and pay for his three children's college educations. ''If I had the cash available to invest in a rental property, I would do it,'' he said. ''It's a pain, but I still think, over time, that there are some real good benefits to it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian and Mary Ann Kuklinski with their sons, Kyle, left, Brandin, standing, and Wojtek, threw in a swing set when they sold their house.
Tom Santilli, a real estate agent, tours a model home in suburban Denver. Even houses in impeccable condition have been slow to sell, he said. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 23)
To entice homebuyers, sellers are reducing prices in Denver as its once-hot housing market slumps. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Denver's Real Estate Doldrums''Appreciation of Denver Homes Has Slowed . . .Median price for existing single-family homes.Graph tracks median price for existing single-family homes in Denver since 1998.. . . Inventories Are Up . . .Midyear and end-of-year inventories of unsold homes.Graph tracks inventories of midyear and end-of-year unsold homes since 2000.. . . And Denver Lags Behind Other AreasIn a survey of the 100 largest metropolitan statistical areas, Denver is near the bottom in the annual percentage change in median existing home prices, first quarter, 2005.RANK: 1METROPOLITAN AREA: West Palm Beach/Boca Raton, Fla.RANK: 2METROPOLITAN AREA: Las VegasRANK: 3METROPOLITAN AREA: Riverside/San Bernardino, Calif.RANK: 4METROPOLITAN AREA: Bakersfield, Calif.RANK: 5METROPOLITAN AREA: SacramentoRANK: 89METROPOLITAN AREA: DenverRANK: 96METROPOLITAN AREA: Louisville, Ky.RANK: 97METROPOLITAN AREA: Youngstown, OhioRANK: +0.6METROPOLITAN AREA: Austin, Tex.RANK: +0.2METROPOLITAN AREA: SyracuseRANK: -3.9METROPOLITAN AREA: Indianapolis(Sources by Economy.com
National Association of Realtors
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight
 Gary Bauer, independent real estate consultant)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TUITION FEES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%) Denver (Colo); Las Vegas (Nev); Miami (Fla); Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



321 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; Sunday Business; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: We Were Soldiers Once, and Broke

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS should be clear to anyone who reads these columns, I am fascinated by finance. I have been since I was a lad. Finance distributes risk. The smart, aggressive, tireless men and women in it allocate capital. In many ways, this efficient allocation of capital -- sometimes more efficient than others -- explains why capitalism so thoroughly trounces socialism and communism. 
 Finance guys take risks that would terrify most of us. They carry immense burdens of fear and retribution on their shoulders. It is a wonder to me that the managers of hedge funds and the people who trade derivatives can even sleep at night. I know I wouldn't be able to catch one wink. 
 Still, when I read the daily news I am often struck by something that has nothing to do with the finance classes I took at Columbia or Yale, but in a way has everything to do with them.
 Maybe I can summarize the dissonance in this little example: In the financial section of the newspaper or the business magazine, there is an article about a man, Philip J. Purcell, who has just left a huge financial services company after his performance was deemed subpar, and he's taking home a $113.7 million severance package. 
 Then there's an article about the fellow who is replacing him, and about how he was offered something like $25 million a year. A fellow on the job just three months, whose main quality was apparently loyalty to the subpar-performing manager, is getting $32 million.
 And in a publication called Trader magazine, there's an article about the top hedge fund and commodities fund managers, and they are getting $250 million to $500 million a year each, personally.
 And I think to my little self: ''Wow, that's a ton of money. But I guess they do something very useful, helping to allocate capital and to make money for the shareholders and for the people who invest with them.''
 Then I turn from the financial news to the general news section of the paper, or to the barrage of e-mail messages I get from people in the Army and Navy and Marines and Air Force, and I read about men and women who are taking fire from insurgents in Iraq and being blown up by homemade bombs that the Pentagon refers to as improvised explosive devices. The people being blown up are maybe corporals, and they get $1,900 a month, including combat pay. 
 Or I read a letter from a buddy of a member of the Navy Seals who was killed recently in Afghanistan when his helicopter went down, and he was getting maybe $1,950 a month, fighting the Taliban and fighting Al Qaeda (which killed 3,000 innocent men, women and children on American soil on Sept. 11, 2001). That means the guy at the hedge fund is getting as much as, say, 10,000 of these corporals per annum.
 What keeps going through my mind is that there is a big, yet always unstated, connection between these two groups of men and women -- on one hand, the megastars of Wall Street and corporate boardrooms, with their vast paychecks, yachts and horse farms in the Hamptons, and, on the other, the grunts in body armor chasing down terrorists half a world away in 130-degree heat.
 The link is that the men and women of Wall Street and of corporate America do their very important work -- and it is vital work, indeed -- inside a box of security and safety created by the courage of the men and women who wear battle dress uniforms and ride down the highway of death in Iraq in armored personnel carriers handling machine guns. 
 The men and women in the Armani suits, who get the huge paychecks -- and who, again, do work I sincerely appreciate and admire -- could not exist for long if they were not being shielded by the men and women in uniforms and boots.
 And I do not mean only the military. I am also talking about the police officers, the firefighters and other first responders; the Department of Homeland Security folks; the airport security people; and the people in the C.I.A., the F.B.I. and the National Security Agency. All of them offer their time and their lives and their families' sanity to protect the country. 
 That means, among other things, protecting the free markets in finance -- and in ideas, religions and human feelings. There would be no finance section of the newspaper without the protection of those whose job is to protect and to serve.
 By the way, I have the very same feelings when I read newspaper book reviews, movie reviews, dance reviews and art reviews. None of this criticism or creativity would be possible if we did not have the military and the other men and women who protect us from an unending reign of terror from fanatics and maniacs. None of the astounding beauty of daily life in America would be possible without the shield of the men and women riding around in valleys in Afghanistan and infiltrating terrorist cells all over the world.
 This is not leading up to a specific policy prescription beyond what my father and I have been saying for decades: that upper-income people like me (and I am a welfare mother by Wall Street standards) should pay more tax, and people in uniform should get more pay. 
 Mainly, what I want to say is that we should have in our hearts -- far ahead of a desire for a rising stock market, a soft landing in real estate and a return to a more normal yield curve -- extreme gratitude for those who make our business and finance world, and indeed our whole world, possible. 
 We could live a little while without a stock market. It was closed for a time after the United States entered World War I and we survived, although I personally would not have liked it. But we could not live at all without those who earn modest wages and keep the whole system going -- and whose risk does not involve being fired and getting a severance package if something goes wrong, but may mean a homecoming in a box or a life with a prosthesis. 
 Remember that it all depends on the fighting men and women, not on the people in finance. It depends on the guys whose names you will never know, guys who come home and work -- not at jobs in which helicopters ferry them to secret-deal meetings in New York or London, but at jobs in places like a car wash in Burleson, Tex., where one of the men who captured Saddam Hussein is working without complaint and with barely mentioning that he was in Iraq.
 That is, if they come home with all their limbs -- or if they come home at all. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Combat soldiers in Iraq receive little in monetary rewards, but have made it possible for people like Philip J. Purcell, below, former Morgan Stanley chief, to work in peace. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Typical Military Pay''While some top-paid Wall Street executives can make tens of millions a year, an Army private's regular pay this year could be less than $30,000.Graph tracks annual military pay from 1999-2005 for the following:Senior officer16 YRS. OF SERVICE, MARRIEDLt. Col. (Army, Air Force,Marines), Cmdr. (Navy)Senior enlisted12 YRS. OF SERVICE, MARRIEDSgt. First Class (Army),Chief Petty Officer (Navy),Master Sgt. (Air Force),Gunnery Sgt. (Marines)Junior enlisted1.5 YRS. OF SERVICE, SINGLEPfc. (Army), Seaman (Navy),Airman First Class (Air Force),Lance Cpl. (Marines)Note: Pay is for personnel stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C., and includes basic pay and the basic allowance for housing and subsistence but not specialty pay and allowances like combat pay.(Source by Department of Defense)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); TERRORISM (84%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (84%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); ARMIES (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); NAVIES (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); AIR FORCES (65%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TALIBAN (64%); AL-QAEDA (60%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%) United States Armament and Defense; Wages and Salaries; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Executives and Management

PERSON: Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



322 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: A Black Market for Bomb Materials Is Said to Flourish in Europe

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, July 16 

 BODY:
With experts now suspecting that the London suicide attackers used crude homemade bombs made from common commercial products, the spotlight has shifted to the wide availability of black-market explosives in Europe. 
 Nearly four years after the Sept. 11 attacks, it is easier than ever to obtain these materials in Europe, security experts say. A glut of undocumented, military-quality explosives emanating in large part from the former Eastern bloc countries, combined with more porous borders, has left a wide variety of these materials washing through Europe, say current and former military officers and police in Britain and Europe. 
 ''It is much, much easier now that we have a new E.U. border system'' to bring explosives and firearms into Britain, said Michael Coldrick, a former antiterrorism officer with Scotland Yard. ''People are coming and going across international borders all the time with relatively minor checks.'' Mr. Coldrick estimates that there are ''thousands of tons'' of explosives available on the black market in Europe. 
 A year after the bombings in 2004 in Madrid, which killed 191 people using stolen Goma-2, a nitroglycerin-based explosive, the European Union still has no way to track stolen explosives. 
 Of particular concern are the powerful, plastic bonded explosives, known as PBX, a favorite of terrorists for decades because they are hard to detect with X-ray machines. Semtex, a plastic explosive produced by a company called Explosia in the Czech Republic, was believed to be the material responsible for the destruction of Pan Am Flight 103 in 1988 over Lockerbie, Scotland. 
 Dozens of small and midsized companies in Europe, Iran, Canada the United States and Asia produce plastic explosives. The manufacturers have tightened up screening and registration processes, and have introduced a tracking system that tags some explosives with their maker and point of origin. But the new controls do not cover products ordered previously, and many plastic explosives have a shelf life of 20 years. 
 It is not yet clear whether the London bombings involved anything that sophisticated. Traces of TATP, a crude and highly volatile homemade product favored by Hamas, the Palestinian militant group, were found at sites being searched by the police in connection with the investigation, official sources said Thursday.
 The explosive, which resembles sugar or salt in its usable form, can be created by mixing acetone with two common ingredients. An amount the size of a loaf of bread would be enough to cause the damage inflicted to the No.30 bus in the London bombings, explosives experts say.
 But because TATP is so unstable, explosives experts not involved in the investigation say, it is likely that the London bombers used a combination of homemade and commercial explosives. 
 Security experts say it is not surprising that the authorities in London have given conflicting descriptions of the sort of bomb materials the attackers used. Even a basic explosive like TATP leaves virtually no trace, and ''it is very difficult to analyze plastic explosive residue,'' said Jack McGeorge, who was a bomb disposal specialist with the Marine Corps and is now president of a consultancy called the Public Safety Group. 
 The glut of sophisticated black-market explosives is not confined to Europe. Israeli intelligence officials have been saying since 2002 that Palestinian militants are adding more powerful, military-grade explosives like RDX, another plastic explosive, to their arsenal. In Iraq, more than 300 tons of HMX, another plastic explosive, disappeared after the fall of Saddam Hussein. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (94%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPLOSIVES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); HAMAS (70%); PLASTICS (65%); EXPLOSIVES MFG (57%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%) Bombs and Explosives; Smuggling; Railroads; Terrorism; Railroads

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); MADRID, SPAIN (90%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SPAIN (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (78%); IRAQ (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Great Britain; London (Eng); Europe; European Union; Spain; Madrid (Spain); Iraq; Eastern Europe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



323 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; KITCHEN VOYEUR; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Kitchen Sage

BYLINE: By Jonathan Reynolds

 BODY:
There are a baby's handful of people in this city you can point to and say, ''That's who folks come to New York to be'' -- Mayor Mike from Boston, Bobby Short from Danville, Ill., and Kate Spade from Kansas City, to name a few. Kurt Andersen from Omaha, to name another. Andersen, 50, whose resume is as diverse as Leonardo's, has been a literary force in town from the moment in 1976 that he stepped off the plane with a Harvard B.A. under his arm and walked into The Daily News to work as a copy boy. He lasted a day before fleeing to NBC to write radio copy for Gene Shalit. Since then, he has been the editor of and is currently a columnist at New York magazine, was a writer at The New Yorker and co-founder and editor of the notoriously punchy and nose-tweaking Spy magazine, has published one novel with a second in the wings (''Wonderstruck,'' due out next spring) and is currently host of ''Studio 360,'' a weekly public radio show that recently won a Peabody. 
 As if that weren't enough, he miraculously manages to cook almost every night for his wife, Anne Kreamer (a contributing editor at Martha Stewart Living), and their two attractive daughters, Lucy, 15, and Kate, 17, at the four-story town house they've owned for 16 years in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. At age 6, Kurt discovered the magical realism of baking -- notably cinnamon buns and Swiss chocolate pie -- and he never let up.
 ''I really learned to cook from my very rural grandmother,'' he said as he chopped first a red, then a yellow, pepper for the chutney he would be serving family and friends -- a total of eight -- just 90 minutes later. ''She made the thinnest, crunchiest ginger cookies ever -- my own personal madeleines -- and showed me that cooking could be fun, not just copying from recipes.'' 
 Andersen is 6-foot-2 and slim, and speaks with understated passion about most things but particularly about dinner with family. ''We have dinner with our daughters most nights of the week'' -- about five out of seven, Anne would later amend -- ''because we think it's good for all of us.'' He smiled. ''And incidentally, we recently heard about that study that said kids who ate dinner with their parents regularly did better on their SAT's than ones who didn't. Dinner with family was more predictive than economic background, divorce or ethnicity.'' 
 Dinner tonight would consist of a couple of summer classics -- charcoal-grilled tuna steaks with mango chutney and a berry tart he farmed out to Lucy, an aspiring baker -- and two unclassic-but-soon-should-be's, fried sage leaves and deep-fried okra. (Okraphobes hold the phone; this'll convert you). He managed all this while keeping up a lively conversation on topics dearest to every New Yorker's heart, native or immigrant: politics; the arts; the trickiness of screenplays; and food.
 ''I like red onions for this chutney -- they give it a sharper taste and some contrast to the sweetness of the mango and peppers,'' he said as he left-handedly diced one in the airy kitchen that abuts their ground floor dining room on one end and a verdant city garden on the other. Lucy formed her tart shell -- she would later line it with mascarpone and whipped cream, then big, fat berries -- then curled up in the corner and perused ''Essentials of Baking'' from the gang at Williams-Sonoma. 
 Kurt started slicing two pounds of okra into mathematically perfect 1/2-inch rounds. Okra pods terrify most Northerners, largely because their interiors can be slimy (the okra, not the Yankees, depending), with a texture not unlike an especially gooey oyster. ''It's a strange little vegetable,'' Kurt said. ''People either don't know it or think they won't like it. I never had it growing up in Nebraska, but a friend made it in bread crumbs . . . fantastic!''
 He mixed the okra bits with a couple of eggs, a little milk and salt and pepper. ''If you slice them thicker, you get more of an okra sensation and less of a French fry,'' he said. ''I've tried it with flour and wheat germ, but crumbs are the best. And I've tried frying it in olive oil, but with corn oil the family gave me more praise than usual,'' he added, clearly heartened by their approval.
 Anne entered with a pile of sage leaves freshly picked from their garden and ranging in size from dime to silver dollar. She is diminutive and temporarily blond with a quick smile and very alert eyes. Lucy baked her tart shell. Kurt gently patted the leaves dry, b-a-r-e-l-y dusted them with flour and sauteed them in a thin film of olive oil, 30 seconds per side, making sure they didn't touch. ''The trick with sage is, not too much moisture so it doesn't get all about the flour. Sometimes you get just the right amount in the leaf.'' 
 We had a fast glass of wine in the garden and praised the tasty fragility of the leaves -- he could have sauteed an entire sage bush, they were so good. Then Kurt quickly (but with understated quickness) heated to shimmering an inch and a half of corn oil, rolled the sliced okra in bread crumbs and gently immersed them in the oil. Almost immediately, they began bonking and bubbling away like oil soup. Lucy removed the tart shell from the oven. It smelled heavenly. ''Mmmm, I just want to go straight to the pie!'' Anne said.
 ''That's what you say now,'' Lucy said, because she's a teenager. 
 With one eye on the bouncing okra, Kurt grilled the tuna steaks and covered them with the chutney. The tuna had a nice charcoaled whiff to it, and the relish gave moisture and a lively goose of flavor. The okra -- don't cancel your subscription now -- was scrumptious. Lucy's fresh-tasting tart revealed a potential Francois Payard, and as befitted our crowd, we discussed subjects of the now, ranging from the exhibit at the Japan Society examining that culture's recent embrace of kawaii, or ''cuteness'' (which puzzled everyone at the table), to the Penn Gillette documentary ''The Aristocrats'' (brilliant and funny), to the redesign of ''The Daily Show'' set (are they getting rid of the desk?), to the unique American specimen who is Jane Fonda.
 Earlier, Kurt said, smiling, ''My Nebraska dream of New York was to live in a brownstone -- that was because of 'The Patty Duke Show.' '' But I don't remember a single episode in which Patty ate fried okra and tackled the world. 

INTO THE FOLD
This splendid wood spatula, which looks as if it could paddle a small canoe, is about 14 inches long. In France, it is known as a crepe spatula and is designed to slip under thin, delicate crepes and flip them without incident. It was a gift to the Andersens, and they use it, Kurt said, for ''any 'folding' -- in batters, souffles and frostings -- a word and cooking activity I happen to love.'' Crepe spatulas are $2.99 to $11.50 at goldaskitchen.com, fantes.com and finerkitchens.com.

Fried Sage Leaves
Olive oil
Sage leaves, rinsed and patted dry
All-purpose flour
Salt and pepper.
 In a medium skillet, heat 1/4 inch oil over medium-high heat until hot enough to toast a bread crumb in 30 seconds. Toss sage in flour, shake vigorously to remove as much flour as possible and fry, 30 seconds per side. Drain on paper towels, sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve with cocktails.

Deep-Fried Okra
1 large egg
1/3 cup milk
2 cups dry bread crumbs
3 cups corn oil
1 pound okra, rinsed and cut into 1/2-inch pieces
Salt and pepper.
 1. In a large bowl, whisk together egg and milk. Place bread crumbs in a second large bowl. Heat oil in a heavy 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat until oil is hot enough to toast a bread crumb in 30 seconds.
 2. Toss half the okra in the egg mixture until thoroughly coated (use your hands or, if you must, a spoon). Pick up large handfuls (or slotted spoonfuls) of the okra pieces, letting the excess liquid drip back into the bowl. Transfer okra to the bowl with bread crumbs and toss until coated.
 3. Add okra to hot oil and cook until well browned, about 5 minutes. Remove okra with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Repeat with remaining okra. Season with salt and pepper and serve hot. Serves 6.

Charcoal-Grilled Tuna Steaks With Mango Chutney
68-ounce tuna steaks, each 1- 1/2 inches thick
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon olive oil
1/2 cup orange juice or blood orange juice (Oranfrizer brand preferred but not essential)
2 tablespoons grated ginger
1 mango, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
1 large yellow bell pepper, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
1 large red bell pepper, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
1 red onion, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
Salt and pepper
Leaves from 1 bunch cilantro, chopped.
 1. Rub steaks with soy sauce and oil and marinate for 30 to 60 minutes.
 2. In a large bowl, whisk together orange juice and ginger. Add mango, bell peppers and onion and set aside.
 3. Prepare a charcoal grill for high-heat cooking. Season tuna with salt and pepper and grill, turning once, until desired doneness, about 2 minutes per side for rare, 3 minutes per side for medium-rare. Stir cilantro into mango mixture, season lightly with salt to taste and serve over tuna steaks. Serves 6. 

All recipes adapted from Kurt Andersen.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sage leaves skitter on the base of a hot skillet.
Sage needs just a whisper of flour for frying. (Photographs by Elinor Carucci for The New York Times)
 Kurt Andersen (Photograph by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); MAYORS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (87%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); LITERATURE (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); PUBLIC RADIO (69%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (68%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Recipes 

PERSON: Jonathan Reynolds; Kurt Andersen

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



324 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 931 words

PERSON: John J. Ford Jr

HEADLINE: John J. Ford Jr., 81, Dies; Coin Dealer and Collector

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
John J. Ford Jr., a coin dealer and collector known for catalogs that brought new clarity to numismatics and whose collections, including the earliest American coins and prized Confederate pennies, have dazzled recent auctiongoers, died on July 7 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 81.
 Susan Dobbins, his daughter, confirmed the death.
The scale and completeness of Mr. Ford's collecting have emerged as 11 of as many as 20 auctions have been held to sell off his esoteric collections, which included the notes of Massachusetts issued in 1690, the oldest coins issued by the Continental Congress and African chiefs' medals. 
 Michael Hodder, a numismatic consultant, said bidders had already spent $35 million on the Ford collections, and the final total may rival the three auctions of the collection of Louis E. Eliasburg Sr., who assembled every known American coin. These exceeded $55 million.
 Francis D. Campbell, the librarian of the American Numismatic Society, said the sales have expanded appreciation of Mr. Ford.
 ''It's going to settle in that he was more important than we thought he was,'' he said.
 Mr. Ford's impact on the field has been better known in the small circle of its professionals, particularly his catalogs for the New Netherlands Coin Company, which he partly owned. His meticulous descriptions of grades, colors and other qualities were unprecedented, wrote Harvey R. Stack, owner of Stack's, which is auctioning Mr. Ford's collections.
 Not only did the catalogs enable people to bid with more confidence, but they also represented some of the highest numismatic scholarship in the United States, Mr. Hodder said. He explained that American numismatists are largely restricted to commercial publications, unlike the approach in Europe, where numismatics museums and university courses are common. In an introduction to a catalog, Q. David Bowers, a well-known numismatist, called Mr. Ford one of the ''most influential figures in American numismatics.''
 He was most prominent in the 1950's and 1960's, when coin collecting, once known as ''the hobby of kings'' greatly broadened its appeal in a booming postwar economy. It trails only stamp collecting in participants, but leads in money spent.
 Mr. Ford's career had controversy. He reversed the industry's practice of overrating coins up for auction. He designated coins ''very fine'' that others might rate ''extremely fine.'' It packed the room, he said.
 Mr. Ford was involved in one of the longest-running, vitriolic disputes in the history of American numismatics. Some prominent experts charged that he was part of a scheme to sell fake gold and silver bars, falsely claiming they came from the American West.
 Mr. Ford, backed by other authorities, categorically denied any fraud. But, when not on the subject of the accusations, he could not help philosophizing.
 ''Ever since the first coin was sold to anybody, somebody has lied about it,'' he said in an interview with the magazine of Heritage Galleries and Auctioneers.
 John Jay Ford Jr. was born on March 5, 1924, in Hollywood, where his father liked to socialize with movie people. The elder Mr. Ford, a scientist and inventor, lost all his money in business failures and retreated to Queens. He borrowed haircut money from his teenage son.
 The son, already a stamp collector, bought his first old currency from a shop on Nostrand Avenue in Brooklyn. He paid 15 cents for a Confederate bill that years later fetched $200.
 He quit his paper route and got a job as a delivery boy for Stack's. By the time he was drafted into the Army, he had a thriving business making his own numismatic deals as he went about his errands.
 He was regarded as a wonder, having virtually memorized ''United States Pattern, Trial and Experimental Pieces'' by Edgar H. Adams and William H. Woodin, then a standard numismatic resource. Mr. Hodder likened this to memorizing all of a day's baseball box scores, only more complicated. 
 After serving as an Army cryptographer, Mr. Ford did other kinds of work before finding his way back to coin shops. He soon joined Charles Wormser at New Netherlands, becoming a partner in two years.
 Mr. Ford discovered and cultivated Walter Breen, often heralded as the genius of numismatics. Mr. Breen, who went on to write what became an industry bible, teamed with Mr. Ford to write New Netherlands' famous catalogs.
 Wayte Raymond, one of America's legendary numismatists, hired Mr. Ford to help him with in-depth research at the National Archives. Mr. Ford also worked closely with F.C.C. Boyd, long a commanding personality in the coin field. He handled both men's estates, giving him a first chance at great treasures.
 Mr. Ford is survived by his wife, Joan; his daughters Susan Dobbins of Scottsdale, Leslie Sanderson of Prescott, Ariz., and Kimberly Moon of Haddonfield, N.J., eight grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
 He is remembered for the no-nonsense bomb shelter full of valuable coins and currencies in the basement of the Long Island home where he long lived, not to mention his Cuban cigars. His stories, like the one about taking a $67,000 check written on toilet paper from a tipsy oilman are still savored: it was the only paper in the hotel room.
 Mr. Ford's enthusiasm for collecting and trading spilled into such varied fields as the medals presidents gave Indian chiefs, the badges slaves wore when they were rented out for day work, Civil War revolvers and an ashtray owned by Hitler.
 At dinner, his trading often continued, as he offered, say, two radishes for three olives.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Ford Jr. in undated photo. (Photo by Stack's Rare Coins)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (94%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); COUNTERFEITING (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (56%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



325 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas's Mayor Trying to Attract a Pro Team

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, July 16 

 BODY:
Mayor Oscar Goodman is obsessed with showgirls. To secure a long interview, he suggested, ''Bring showgirls!'' 
 To lure a Major League Baseball team to Las Vegas, he took two showgirls (and an Elvis impersonator) to the winter meetings in Anaheim, Calif., in 2004. To celebrate his city's being named as host of the 2008 winter meetings on Thursday, he squired two showgirls to Cashman Field, the local minor league park. 
Where does he get them? 
 ''I come from a background where we take the Fifth,'' said Goodman, once a celebrated mob lawyer who played his premayoral self in the film ''Casino'' and his current self in the television series ''CSI'' and ''Las Vegas.''
 That Goodman employs showgirls as alluring economic development tools should not be construed as a lack of seriousness about his goal to attract a major league sports team to the city that has plenty of other diversions. He doesn't care which sport, he just wants one of them, and he was willing to play the fool with his showgirls-and-Elvis stunt in Anaheim. Then, ''my good friend Tommy Lasorda'' kissed him, and friends like Jack McKeon greeted him warmly.
 ''They legitimized me,'' Goodman, the self-professed ''happiest mayor in the world,'' said Friday during an interview in his 10th-floor downtown office.
 Before entering his cluttered inner sanctum, visitors must pass a five-foot-high, diamond-shaped ''Welcome to Fabulous Mayor Oscar Goodman's Office'' sign, a replica of the famous Las Vegas, Nevada, sign that has greeted people along the Strip here since 1959. A sign over the door boasts that electricity for the sign's blinking lights is not being paid by taxpayers.
 ''It costs 11 cents a day,'' he said.
 A star with his name on it is attached to the door to his bathroom (where a large caricature of hizzoner awaits inside). His supply closet is filled with boxes containing little bottles of his favorite gin, Bombay Sapphire (with small caricatures of a martini-wielding mayor taped to them), which he endorsed a few years ago. Four bobblehead dolls bearing his bearded likeness wobble on a bookcase. 
 From a plastic sheet on his desk he pulls a photograph -- one that shows him during his recent stint as a guest photographer for Playboy.
 ''No other mayor did that!'' he said, showing the picture of him photographing Irina Voronina.
 From his amusement park/office, Goodman can see the 61-acre tract that he envisions as the home of an arena or a stadium. He objects to such a facility rising anywhere else, like miles away on the Strip, where the glitziest casinos operate, which is not part of the Las Vegas that he is the mayor of.
 He said he knew how he would finance a stadium or an arena, but he would not divulge it. 
 ''It will be cutting edge, and make everyone happy,'' he said.
 He added: ''Other mayors see sports as a vehicle for economic vitality. But we're booming. We've got a new person coming to town every six minutes. The missing part is a sense of belonging, a sense of self.''
 Boxing matches, like Saturday night's Bernard Hopkins-Jermain Taylor middleweight bout, ''give outsiders a sense of what Las Vegas is about,'' he said. 
 ''I'm talking about a sense of place for the people who live here,'' he added.
 Without any commitments from any teams to move to the desert, Goodman is pinning his intermediate hopes on persuading the National Basketball Association to hold its 2007 All-Star Game here. Gaming regulators in Nevada have agreed to suspend betting on the game at sports books as a condition of the league's approval. The local convention and visitors authority has authorized the city's $4.5 million bid.
 The idea came from George Maloof, who co-owns the Sacramento Kings, with his brother Gavin, and the Palms hotel and casino near the Strip. ''I laughed,'' Goodman said. ''I thought it was a long shot.''
 It is being considered, among bids from other cities. Mike Bass, a league spokesman, would say only that ''The 2007 All-Star Game bids are still under review, with no time frame determined to make the decision.'' 
 Bob Dupuy, the president of Major League Baseball, said that beneath Goodman's glitter, ''he's very committed to bringing major league sports to Las Vegas'' and that ''the city has a chance for a team in the future.''
 But that future might be far off unless casinos agree to suspend all gambling on baseball games, something they were unwilling to do before baseball moved the Montreal Expos to Washington, not Las Vegas.
 Goodman is 65 and a native Philadelphian who is a disciple of classic Vegas fun: showgirls; his fondness for heavy drinking (he recently told a fourth-grade class that if he could have only one thing on a desert island, it would be gin); and his love of sports gambling. He said Friday that he bet on every baseball game.
 ''I'll bet on anything that moves,'' he said. 
 Goodman said any state that policed its casinos and sports books as rigidly as Nevada did would be the safest place for a major league team. 
 ''I represented people accused of fixing games,'' he said. ''Invariably, they got caught by regulators who saw unusual movement on the lines.''
 Goodman has two years left on his second term, and said he hopes that in that time, a decision to bring a team to the city will have been made. Assuming a third four-year term, he insisted that a team will have moved here by 2011.
 ''I can make things happen as a lawyer,'' he said. ''I can persuade a jury or a judge. But as a mayor, I have to rely on other people to get this done. A team has to call me. If I get the call, and have the fish, shame on me if I don't pull it in. Right now, I have my chum out there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Oscar Goodman says a professional sports team would give Las Vegas ''a sense of belonging, a sense of self.'' (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%) Athletics and Sports

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir; Oscar B (Mayor) Goodman

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%) NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



326 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Dude, You're Getting A Loan

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
ON any list of tech-stock hotties, Dell Inc. would certainly rank right up there. Dell, the computer powerhouse, reported revenue of $13.4 billion in the quarter that ended April 29, up 16 percent from a year earlier, and net income of $934 million, a 28 percent jump. Although its shares are down 2.8 percent this year, at $40.96, Dell is trading at a ritzy price-to-earnings ratio of 30, well above the average of 18 for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 One of the fastest-growing elements of Dell's smashing direct-sales model is its financing business. Loans or leases from Dell Financial Services to Dell customers have soared 36 percent, on average, in each of the last six years and are now growing at twice the rate of Dell's overall revenue. 
This business is a natural for Dell, which has flourished by eliminating middlemen wherever it can. Its financing operation is a joint venture with CIT Group Inc., a financial services concern, and generated revenue of $1.5 billion for Dell in the most recent quarter. In the 2005 fiscal year, which ended last January, Dell Financial Services made $5.6 billion in loans and leases. Dell owns 70 percent of the venture.
 For years, Dell profited only on finder's fees it received when it referred a borrower to the joint venture. But now the company is expanding its role: it has set up a special-purpose entity that will profit by packaging and selling one-quarter of the loans or leases originated at Dell Financial in the current fiscal year. And it recently revised its deal with CIT. Now Dell has the right to buy the venture outright in three years. 
 To some degree, Dell's foray into financing is just another example of its quest for profit growth. But as one respected analyst has noted, Dell's financing business brings with it the potential for greater risks. While Dell has rarely disappointed its investors over the years, they should nevertheless be alert to the risks that captive financing units present to nonfinance companies. 
 The analyst in question is Toni Sacconaghi, at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York. He said that while financing transactions were now a very small contributor to Dell's earnings -- an estimated $80 million in operating profits from the business in fiscal 2005, or 2.5 cents a share -- five years from now, the finance business could generate $500 million in annual operating profits for Dell.
 The trouble is, the landscape is littered with manufacturers that, in trying to propel product sales, pushed their financing units to make risky loans. Recall, for example, the crippling losses at Lucent Technologies generated by loosey-goosey vendor financing during the tech bubble. 
 Aggressive consumer lending can be equally perilous. Consider Gateway Inc., a former highflier in personal computers that began a full-throttle finance program in 2000. According to a lawsuit filed against the company in 2003 by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Gateway used the finance program to mask declining product sales. The company settled without admitting or denying wrongdoing.
 Gateway's financing program was aimed at consumers who had been denied loans by the company before the program started. Although Gateway initially intended to finance only $10 million of such dubious loans, according to the suit, as computer sales slipped, the company made $30 million in risky loans to meet a revenue target. 
 Losses on the loans were soon clocked at around 35 percent, according to the S.E.C. In 2001, Gateway took a $100 million charge to reflect the troubled loans. 
 No one is predicting that Dell will follow Gateway's hazardous path. After all, Dell's market share is not declining; in April, its share of the global personal computer market was 18.5 percent, a company best. 
 But the fact remains that when a third party helps oversee such lending, as CIT does now, credit discipline is more likely to be maintained. When Dell buys out CIT, investors will have to be persuaded that credit standards will not be compromised. 
 ''To the degree that Dell takes total control of it, they have to make sure they have the proper expertise in credit scoring and that they are not going to be bullied by the product organization,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''You really want the financing subsidiary to be arm's-length.''
 Brian MacDonald, Dell's treasurer, said that the company was well aware of the risks and had structured the business accordingly. For example, the finance company does not report to Dell's sales executives. ''We'll make sure we have the appropriate checks and balances,'' he said. 
 Last week, Dell hired a veteran executive from MBNA, the credit card concern, to run its financial business, Mr. MacDonald said. 
 Dell could offload some of the risks associated with financing by packaging its loans into securities and selling them to investors, a strategy it now uses in its venture with CIT. 
 But there are risks in this business as well. If the market for such asset-backed securities dried up, Dell would have to hold onto the loans, taking on default risk. 
 ''If we had problems selling into the asset-backed market we would have to fund those originations some other way,'' Mr. MacDonald said. ''But we have an option to fund, not an obligation to fund.'' 
 At the moment, the special-purpose entity set up by Dell does not have to make any public filings. As a result, it is difficult for investors to track the operation. 
 Dell also intends to keep more loans on its balance sheet, although Mr. MacDonald declined to specify a percentage. Dell has a mountain of cash -- almost $6 billion as of the most recent quarter. Deploying cash to make loans, Mr. Sacconaghi said, is not in the best interests of Dell's shareholders. Better to buy back shares or pay dividends.
 Clearly, Dell's shift into lending may soup up profits and please investors. But there is no denying that Dell shareholders will have to monitor the financing business closely to satisfy themselves that the risks do not outweigh the rewards.
 ''I think they're doing it fairly prudently, but a financing business in and of itself bears some risk,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''You really don't get something for nothing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); LITIGATION (79%); ETHICS (78%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%) Computers and the Internet; Credit; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: DELL INC (91%); GATEWAY INC (84%); CIT GROUP INC (69%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Dell Inc; Cit Group Inc; Gateway Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (91%); CIT (NYSE) (69%); ALU (PAR) (60%); ALU (NYSE) (60%); ALU (BIT) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (69%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (69%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (60%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



327 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/Riverside Drive; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: A Super Super (He's a Super Saver) Buys a Co-op

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
''SAVING money was easy for me,'' Sam Vassallo said, ''because I'm very cheap.''
 Mr. Vassallo, 37, was sitting in his new living room, which gleamed with fresh paint, a new parquet floor, a restored onyx fireplace surround and beveled glass French doors. Beyond were the dining room; an enormous open kitchen with handmade cherry wood cabinets, a wine fridge and a Thermador stove; and the television room, three bathrooms and three bedrooms of Mr. Vassallo's exquisitely renovated, 2,000-square-foot Riverside Drive apartment. It is a new home for himself, his wife, Rose, and their growing family, Evie, almost 2, and Sal, 3 months next week.
Like many recent Manhattan homeowners, Mr. Vassallo bought his apartment for its asking price, $1.45 million, last September -- a good portion of which he paid in cash. But unlike, say, a midlevel investment banker, whose bonus last year might have hovered under $1 million, Mr. Vassallo earned his money the old fashioned way, one dollar at a time. 
 A soft-spoken and gently humorous man, Mr. Vassallo is a skilled carpenter, electrician and plumber. He is also the superintendent of his building, 131 Riverside Drive, at 85th Street, a sprawling brick and limestone grande dame that celebrates its 100th birthday this year. In the last decade, it has accrued many capital improvements -- a playroom, a new laundry room, a gym -- all built by Mr. Vassallo. And its residents have made their own improvements to their apartments, with Mr. Vassallo doing much of the work. 
 ''Sam is so integral to all our lives,'' said Carol Pratt, a former board member and a building resident for 12 years. ''He goes way beyond the call of duty and has so many skills. But we didn't have a super's apartment that was appropriate for a family, and we couldn't afford to buy one.''
 Mr. Vassallo, however, had been saving assiduously since he moved to New York from Malta 16 years ago. ''I always had the thought to buy an apartment,'' he said, explaining a bank account that reached a very healthy balance before the purchase of this apartment last year. ''It's not hard, you know,'' he continued, smiling at a visitor's raised eyebrows. ''I've worked at least two jobs and 80 hours a week from the beginning.''
 His first five years here, he said, he worked as a handyman from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at a building on East 87th Street, and then as a doorman from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. at another building, on East 32nd. Sleep was confined to the hours between 5 and 10 p.m. He lived with a friend on West 89th; in exchange for rent, he took out the garbage and performed other maintenance for that building. Two days a week, he worked as a security guard. 
 ''I was single, I didn't buy clothes or spend a lot on food,'' he said. ''I would never put down $6 for a sandwich, or eat at a restaurant. Now, of course, it's a different story.'' 
 During his first two years as super of 131 Riverside, Mr. Vassallo kept his night job. Thereafter, when tenants began asking him to paint, wire or build for them, he exchanged his night doorman job for the renovations. He met Ms. Vassallo in Malta in 1998, home on one of the rare vacations he allowed himself.
 ''In the beginning, when you first come to New York,'' Mr. Vassallo said, ''you want to earn money and go back to Malta. It changes, though, because you get used to the life.''
 Ms. Vassallo added, ''And then it's too quiet for you back home.'' 
 He and Ms. Vassallo were married in 2000 -- four residents from 131 Riverside attended their wedding in Malta -- and she moved into the small, dark one-bedroom super's apartment Mr. Vassallo had been living in since 1994. And then Evie arrived. 
 ''I proposed to the board that I would like to purchase an apartment,'' Mr. Vassallo said. ''I had an idea that this one was going to come up.''
 This one was a near wreck, owned by the estate of a woman who had lived in it for 51 years, Mr. Vassallo said. ''It was scary,'' he said. ''The doors were painted black; there were seven locks on the front door; people were afraid to come in.''
 He approached the tenant's heir, who referred him to her lawyer, who in turn declared that the apartment would be offered for sale with an open house one Sunday last September. It was a typical Manhattan scene, Mr. Vassallo said, with 20 or 25 couples thronging the apartment, all vibrating with anxiety and need. Mr. Vassallo sought advice from Lee Waldman of Stribling & Associates, a resident of 131 Riverside for 44 years and the principal broker for the building -- though Ms, Waldman did not have the listing for this apartment. 
 ''I've sold perhaps 25 apartments here, some of them three or four times over,'' Ms. Waldman said the other day. ''I tried to buy this one for Sam before it went on the market, but the owner wasn't interested. Sam asked me, 'How much do I have to pay?' and I said, 'The asking price. Otherwise you're not going to get it.''' 
 At the end of the open house, Mr. Vassallo tendered his offer, in writing, to the listing broker at the open house, and was quickly accepted. ''In 16 years of doing this, this was like a fairy tale,'' said Lori Braverman, a real estate lawyer who represented Mr. Vassallo on his purchase and was awed by the extent of his savings. ''You usually see this kind of money from investment bankers.''
 Mr. Vassallo had prepared his board package in advance and was examined, and then approved, just like any other shareholder, except that the board agreed to support his maintenance costs because they were not able to offer him an apartment -- and they served Champagne at his interview.
 ''He went through the same financial screening as any shareholder,'' said Deborah Kurz, a resident for 14 years and the co-op board president for the last four years (her term ended two weeks ago). ''We decided it was a win-win situation. Sam is a wonderful super, and he brings cohesiveness to our building. The quality of the work in his apartment is indicative of the work he's done throughout the building. It is an example of the standards he sets and meets.'' 
 Mr. Vassallo is a pretty good architect, too, reworking some of the odder spaces in his new apartment to create a rangy family home. A 17-foot-long bathroom became two; the tangle of pantry, maid's room and tiny kitchen has been unraveled to make a bedroom for Sal, an airy, open kitchen and a third bathroom. Those cherry wood cabinets were built by two Maltese brothers, Godwin and Frank Cauchi, in a tiny basement space. 
 ''He's a super friend,'' Mr. Vassallo said of Godwin Cauchi. ''We've known each other 15 years.'' 
 You wonder, what is it about the arid island between Sicily and Tunisia that makes such extraordinary craftsmen? Mr. Vassallo shrugged and twinkled a bit.
 Malta also provided the beveled glass for his six French doors (that's 90 pieces of glass). A Manhattan estimate was $5,000; a Maltese supplier came in at $1,500. Mr. Vassallo has put the remainder of his savings into this renovation -- which was completed this month -- an amount that includes materials only. All the work -- the carpentry, plumbing and wiring -- was done by Mr. Vassallo. 
 His taste is refined and luxurious, judging from the wine fridge, the second oven, the Bosch and Viking appliances, and the new parquet floor with its Harlequin border, all laid in by Mr. Vassallo. 
 The most luxurious touches, however -- the many sconces, chandeliers and pendant lamps that adorn the walls and ceilings -- are examples of Mr. Vassallo's most prescient economies, as every light fixture was salvaged, plucked from the discards of other apartments as tenants renovated. 
 ''We have very good garbage in this building,'' Mr. Vassallo said. He is a passionate steward of 131 Riverside, proudly showing off its lobby renovation, including the faux wood trompe l'oeil on the steel doors.
 ''I feel very lucky,'' he continued, pointing to his own shiny black door. ''There were originally seven locks to this door. Now I only have one, and I never lock it.''
 Mr. Vassallo has very good neighbors.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A $1.45 MILLION HOME -- Rose and Sam Vassallo with Sal, left, and Evie in their Riverside Drive co-op. Mr. Vassallo is the building's super. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 A HOME FOR THE FAMILY -- Rose and Sam Vassallo with Sal, 3 months, and Evie, nearly 2, in their three-bedroom, three-bath, 2,000-square-foot co-op apartment at 131 Riverside Drive, at 85th Street, which they bought for $1.45 million. Mr. Vassallo is the building's superintendent. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%) Housing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Cooperatives; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Penelope Green; Sam Vassallo; Rose Vassallo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



328 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Responding To the Law Of 'Nimby'

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
PERHAPS the most surprising thing about the past few stormy weeks in the life of Steve Levy, Suffolk's county executive, is that he seems surprised.
 He seems surprised by the names he has been called and perhaps even by the names he has called others. He expresses surprise at the intensive news media attention from near and far, all of it, as he sees it, because he has enforced the law.
 ''I'm frustrated at the myths that are being perpetrated,'' he said in an interview on Tuesday, more than three weeks after he touched off the storm by sending Suffolk police officers to help shut down an illegal rooming house in Farmingville where more than 60 men, most of them illegal immigrants, were living. 
 When advocates for immigrants immediately accused Mr. Levy of insensitivity and race-baiting, he exploded in anger -- first at the advocates, and then at the news media for what he considered unfair coverage. 
 ''I'm 'insensitive' because I'm enforcing the law?'' he said. ''This is what you call damned if you do and damned if you don't.''
 The immigrant problems in Suffolk County are not the county's alone, of course. The workers are part of a nationwide influx, mainly from Latin America, of people seeking the economic opportunity they cannot find at home, and sparks have flown in communities across the country where concentrations of illegal immigrants have appeared. Washington has sent mixed signals about how to handle the influx, so local officials like Mr. Levy have been left to their own devices, which are usually a limited set of political tools and traditions.
 The late-20th-century suburban landscape that produced Mr. Levy may be remembered in the future for a long list of things -- sprawl, the soccer mom, the four-car garage, the Levitt splanch -- but planning won't be on that list.
 What defines this landscape instead is the first law of suburban life, known by the acronym Nimby, for ''not in my backyard.'' It deems that all comers are free to do as they please, as long as it doesn't displease the people next door. 
 This unwritten law of the land is central to the lives of all its politicians -- the more homegrown the politician, the more deeply so -- and there are few politicians on Long Island more homegrown than Mr. Levy, who is a native of Holbrook. So when he entered the county executive's office in 2004 after 14 years as a main-street Democrat -- famous for the door-to-door campaigning that won him six terms in the County Legislature and one in the State Assembly, always from Republican districts -- he was sure to hear the howl rising long and loud from the hamlet of Farmingville.
 Residents there had complained for years about illegal immigrants gathering for day-labor shape-ups in local 7-Eleven parking lots and living, crammed 40 and 50 to a house, on streets of single-family homes. The overcrowding was sometimes so severe, neighbors said, that the men were forced to use the backyards as bathrooms.
 Mr. Levy's predecessor, Robert J. Gaffney, a Republican and former F.B.I. agent, seemed stymied by the crisscrossing mandates of federal immigration policy and local peacekeeping. But Mr. Levy has appeared to see the situation from the start as a neighborhood nuisance problem with a local solution. 
 ''There's only two ways you can go with this,'' he said. ''You enforce the law, or you don't.'' He meant the local health and building codes, but perhaps also the reason they exist, the unwritten law of Nimby.
 His first move last fall was to try to ''deputize'' county police officers as federal immigration agents. When the police union balked, he turned to lending their services to the Town of Brookhaven's building department.
 The town had its sights on what it said were 117 illegal rooming houses in Farmingville, almost all crowded with laborers who cut lawns, bus dishes and paint houses for sub-minimum wages. 
 When outraged advocates for immigrants called his tactics ''ethnic cleansing,'' he dismissed them as a ''a lunatic fringe.'' He lambasted newspaper and television coverage of the men left homeless by the rooming house raids, telling reporters at a news conference on Monday that they had missed the real story, about the ''integrity of neighborhoods,'' and sputtering in indignation at any suggestion that he was singling out Hispanic immigrants or playing to voters' prejudices. 
 ''I like Steve, but I think what's he's done is shameful,'' said Paul Tonna, a county legislator. ''And the fact that many people in Suffolk County are happy about it -- I hear his poll numbers have gone up since he did this -- is even more shameful.'' The poll results he referred to could not be confirmed.
 ''Steve Levy is very much attuned to what I call the windbreaker man,'' said David Bishop, a county legislator who sat next to Mr. Levy at legislative meetings for years. Mr. Bishop described this prototype as the ''Korean war veteran'' who happens to be conservative, Republican-leaning, independent-voting, tax-hating and law-and-order-loving.
 ''He knows exactly what that guy is thinking,'' Mr. Bishop said, ''and that's how he has been able to survive.''
 From the beginning of his career, Mr. Levy has trod a fine line among his several chosen roles as anti-establishment reformer, tax-cutting conservative, environmentalist and the windbreaker man's best friend.
 Patrick Halpin, the last Democratic county executive before Mr. Levy, sees in him a politician ''who eventually ends up in a decent place but has a tendency to appeal to people's worst instincts.''
 In his last term in the County Legislature, for instance, Mr. Levy supported an English-only bill that would have set legal limits on the county's use of Spanish. It was deeply resented in the Hispanic community and ultimately vetoed by Mr. Gaffney. But Mr. Levy's support seems to have left an indelible impression on advocates like the Rev. Allan Ramirez of the Brookville Reformed Church, who has called Mr. Levy evil.
 Mr. Levy's relations with Suffolk's Hispanic population have been soured further by the resignations of Renee L. Ortiz, Mr. Levy's chief of minority affairs, in April and 9 of the 19 members of his Hispanic Advisory Board on July 7. 
 But Mr. Levy's calculation is that sooner or later, everyone will benefit from his policies, Hispanic and non-Hispanic alike. 
 ''I analogize it to what Rudy Giuliani did when he stopped the squeegee men,'' Mr. Levy said in an interview. ''The extremists said he was trampling on rights. But now, even his harshest critics are grateful that they can walk the streets.''
 Alex Gutierrez, a high school Spanish teacher who remains on the Hispanic Advisory Board as its chairman, said he saw Mr. Levy as well intentioned. ''Those places are a disgrace,'' he said, ''and people should put the blame where it belongs, on the landlords.''
 But he also expressed sympathy for the men displaced from the rooming houses. ''These are people taking jobs that no one else wants, and the government should give them working papers so they can participate and pay their taxes,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''These people are here to stay.''
 What happens next to those men is a question not answered, and apparently not asked, by Mr. Levy.
 ''It may not be politically correct to say, but the goal of many of these immigrants is not to establish roots here,'' he said Tuesday, ''but only to work here and mail back as much money as possible to their family elsewhere.''
 Still, how should those men be treated while they are here, he was asked. What is the plan?
 Mr. Levy answered without a pause: ''The plan is to enforce the law.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Levy, the county executive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (88%); POLITICS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); REFUGEES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); SUBURBS (63%) Housing; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Discrimination; Labor; Housing

PERSON: Steve (County Exec) Levy; Paul Vitello

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Farmingville (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



329 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Not Dying

 BODY:

To the Sports Editor:
 As a longtime resident of Michigan, I was disappointed in Tyler Kepner's article about Tiger Stadium (''A Former Baseball Cathedral Now Lies Neglected and Decrepit,'' July 10). With so many positive developments in this city, it is sad that an out-of-town journalist would reach so deep to come up with the proverbial ''Detroit is dying'' story.
Do area residents wish that part of town was experiencing redevelopment and growth, as many other sections of the city? Absolutely. But to imply that the vacant stadium is symbolic of Detroit's fate is not a vision shared by Detroiters or those who care about its future.

Randall Foutch
Farmington Hills, Mich.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Comerica Park, adjacent to Ford Field, was the site of baseball's All-Star Game in Detroit last week. (Photo by Tony Ding/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); JOURNALISM (88%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Baseball; Tiger Stadium (Detroit); Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Randall Foutch

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



330 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Critics and Fans Alike As Navy Chief Steps Down

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
Adm. Vern Clark is stepping down next week as the longest-serving chief of naval operations in a half-century, having spent five years revamping the fleet and trimming Navy budgets in an unusual sacrifice to help pay the Army's bills in Iraq.
 He has increased the Navy's readiness, improved pay and benefits, accelerated the retirement of outdated ships, and submerged parochial Navy interests as a team player on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And what thanks does he get? 
 He has been pilloried by the ship-building industry and members of Congress, and not just those representing districts with shipyards or Navy ports. Within his own branch of the service and among retired officers, it is easy to find people who wish he had fought harder for the Navy's share of the pie. 
 But he also got an unusual second term, granted by Donald H. Rumsfeld, the most hands-on defense secretary in a generation. Even more important, he has been given much leeway in organizing, training and equipping the Navy, a liberty that has been the envy of those leading the other armed services.
 When confronted by critics who count success by the numbers and believe that only size matters, whether in ships, personnel or budgets, Admiral Clark says the friction proves that the system works.
 ''The people that would criticize are again performing a specific role that they've been given to play inside the system that we have,'' Admiral Clark, 60, said in an interview looking back over his last five years. ''A congressman that represents a district where they build ships, I expect them to speak strongly in support of their region and their shipyard and the economic imperatives that go with that. And I decided that I wasn't going to lose a lot of sleep about that.''
 Admiral Clark's tour as chief of naval operations has been bracketed by terror and war. He took over in 2000, just 11 weeks before a bombing off Yemen ripped a hole in the destroyer Cole and brought terrorism's threat to the Navy. Then came the Sept. 11 attacks, which led into wars in Afghanistan and Iraq that still deeply involve his branch today.
 In the two wars, Navy aircraft flew a heavy percentage of the attack sorties, and sea-launched cruise missiles were let loose. But the Navy also adapted to new circumstances, especially in Afghanistan, a country with no coastline. Navy Seals continue to carry out Special Operations missions there, and the service's P-3 Orion, a propeller-driven aircraft designed to fly at low speed over the high seas searching for enemy submarines, has been just as useful in spotting insurgents crossing the scorching desert. 
 Admiral Clark's legacy is further complicated by orders from President Bush and Mr. Rumsfeld to transform his branch within the centralized, planned economy of the military budget.
 He played his role on the Joint Chiefs of Staff under newly defined rules, paying more than just lip service to the ''all for one, one for all'' concept designed to unite the four armed services into a more effective fighting force. He paid by squeezing his own budget.
 He answered the call for transforming the military into a leaner, deadlier and more agile force by trimming Navy personnel so he could increase pay and benefits. He made sure that only the most qualified were asked to remain by instituting a ''perform to serve'' program that winnowed re-enlistments, even as the ground component barely reached its recruitment goals. Under his watch, active-duty personnel dropped by more than 20,000 people, to 362,488 as of Friday from a high of 383,108 in 2002.
 Admiral Clark allowed the Navy to shrink to 287 ships today from 315 in 2000, and has even proposed retiring an aircraft carrier -- certainly among the crown jewels of the Navy -- to save billions of dollars.
 Senators Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, and George Allen, Republican of Virginia, are among those angered by that proposal. They are trying to block the move with legislation requiring the Navy to maintain at least a dozen carrier strike groups. 
 ''When we are at war,'' Mr. Nelson said, ''this is not a time to reduce carriers.''
 Mr. Allen added, ''Now is not the time to do anything that will weaken our strategic military capability of responding quickly and decisively to project our power.''
 At the same time, however, Admiral Clark established a system that allows the Navy to actually double the number of major warships that can be sent into battle quickly. That system, the Fleet Response Plan, compresses the lengthy maintenance cycles for carrier strike groups and redirects money to ready the fleet for war. 
 He also challenged Navy culture with a sea-swap experiment, leaving ships on duty longer than the traditional six months and rotating in fresh crews to operate them.
 Beyond these visible efforts, Admiral Clark worked on issues behind closed doors. He broke the code of how to speak with Mr. Rumsfeld, drawing on experience as commander of the Atlantic Fleet and director of the military's Joint Staff. He also holds an M.B.A., which helped him speak the bottom-line language the defense secretary understands. Pentagon insiders say that only Gen. Richard B. Myers, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs, and Gen. Peter Pace, the vice chairman, have a better line of communication with Mr. Rumsfeld.
 Ask Admiral Clark how he did it, and he gives as an example ''the pucks,'' a packet full of flat circles and a book of classified computer rankings for every potential Navy leader. The system allowed him and Mr. Rumsfeld to shift piles around a desk to plan assignments, education, training and promotions.
 ''One of the reasons this has worked with Rumsfeld is because of tools like this,'' Admiral Clark said. ''In this book is the ranking of all officers in a competitive category, done on a computer-based decision software, that none of our people saw. I show this to Don Rumsfeld, and he knows that this isn't Vern pushing his cousin. This is the collective wisdom and judgment of the senior leadership team of the United States Navy.''
 Admiral Clark laughed when service on the Joint Chiefs of Staff was compared to a real-world, high-stakes version of the ''prisoner's dilemma,'' the theoretical exercise developed by economists and nuclear strategists. The game lays out a situation in which members of a gang are arrested together but interrogated separately, and analyzes whether they will stick together for the benefit of all or cut private deals for their own benefit.
 Even within his own branch, Admiral Clark ended traditional equities that automatically divided money among submarines, surface ships and naval aircraft.
 ''I told Don Rumsfeld in front of the chiefs that day that I was putting everything on the table that the United States Navy owned, and that if we didn't need it that the taxpayers shouldn't have to buy it, and they shouldn't have to spend their money for stuff that was all about a bunch of us playing an ego game,'' Admiral Clark said. ''I just refuse to be part of that. And if anybody else decided they wanted to play like that, let them play like that, but I'm not accountable for them. I'm accountable for me.''
 The question is how this emphasis on personnel and readiness will be managed by Admiral Clark's successors, beginning with the new chief of naval operations, Adm. Michael G. Mullen, who is charged with building a Navy for 2020 and beyond. To that question, Admiral Clark holds the course he has set since 2000.
 ''Where would we be today if five years ago I made shipbuilding my No.1 priority? Where would we be?'' Admiral Clark said. ''We wouldn't have been ready.
 ''When we got ready to go do Iraq in the December meeting of '02, Dick Myers turns to me and he says, 'Vern, can I have four carriers?''' Admiral Clark continued. ''And one of the thrills of my life was, I said, 'Yeah, Dick, you can have eight if you want.''' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Adm. Vern Clark, shown last year, was granted an unusual second term as chief of naval operations. (Photo by Ben Twingley/Pensacola News Journal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%) United States Armament and Defense; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Warships; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Shipbuilding, Conversion and Repair; Ships and Shipping

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Thom Shanker; Eric Schmitt; Vernon (Adm) Clark; Michael G (Adm) Mullen

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



331 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Housing Revival in Bleak Part of Newark

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
FOUR years ago this month, two spiffy new two-family homes opened as models for new construction in a seriously deteriorated Newark neighborhood off Route 78 near Newark Liberty International Airport.
 The two brick-front colonials, each with a three-bedroom, two-bath owner's unit on the second floor and a slightly less roomy tenant's apartment on the first floor, signaled the start of a grand redevelopment plan. It aims eventually to provide 1,500 new homes in Newark -- doubling the number of owner-occupied dwellings that existed in the whole city in the year 2000.
''People were wildly interested from the start,'' said Ken Baris, president of Jordan Baris Realty, which is marketing the homes at Southwyck Estates, the 240-unit first phase of development under the plan. ''We signed 10 contracts that first week, and the developers -- Summit Real Estate -- took the ball and ran as fast as possible.'' 
 Now, there are 100 two-family houses up -- whole blocks of them in some places; in others, new buildings interspersed with old. And demand for the homes remains strong. The model at Southwyck Estates that sold for $210,000 when the project started is now listed for $400,000.
 The existing two- to four-family structures that dot the area fanning out from the corner of Hillside Avenue and Runyon Street in Newark's South Ward have not gotten any younger, Mr. Baris noted. ''Still, they seem to look a little more upright, if only by association,'' he laughed.
 ''The neighborhood, which was really one of the most challenged in the city of Newark, is now really a place anybody can feel comfortable walking around in,'' Mr. Baris added.
 And the impact seems to be even more widespread than that. The average sale price for single-family homes in Newark has grown significantly, according to the Garden State Multiple Listing Service figures analyzed by Jordan Baris, a firm that has dominated the Newark residential market for the last half-century. The firm was founded in 1952 by Ken Baris's father, who remains its chief executive.
 ''I think it's clear that the new construction and creation of a stable multifamily neighborhood are helping to increase the overall property values of Newark,'' the younger Mr. Baris said. 
 The average sale price of a single-family home in the first quarter of this year soared 32 percent over the average price a year earlier, rising to $201,050 from $151,909, according to his analysis. 
 While the final numbers for the second quarter of 2005 are not yet available, enough figures are in to know that sale prices averaged 30 percent more than in 2004, indicating the trend has staying power, Mr. Baris said.
 The average time on the market increased from 76 in the first quarter to 88 days in the second quarter, he said, adding that this was not a surprising development in light of slightly higher mortgage interest rates.
 The percentage increase in average sale price for Newark was sharply higher than that for all of Essex County, where Newark is the county seat. The average price in Essex County rose 18 percent, to $459,602.
 In Union and Morris Counties, where Jordan Baris also maintains offices and sells homes, the average prices were up 15 and 16 percent, respectively, this year over last, Mr. Baris said, adding that Newark does not provide a majority of his company's sales. 
 ''The volume of sales in Newark is on the rise, though,'' he said. ''In the first three months of this year, there were 72 sales -- up 24 percent over the same period the year before.'' In the second quarter, the number of sales was also up more than 20 percent, he said.
 ''Affordability'' is probably the main reason that prices in Newark rose faster than values in the surrounding counties, Mr. Baris said. 
 ''Some buyers are worried about today's high prices and a possible decline in high-end values,'' he said. ''Moderately priced homes are increasingly seen as a safer, less-volatile investment.
 ''I think home prices in Newark increased the most because owner-occupants and investors have decided that's where the room for growth in value is,'' Mr. Baris continued. ''High-end prices are more sensitive to factors such as Wall Street bonuses and stock market performance. The more affordable a price is, the less you are tied to economic factors.''
 At Southwyck Estates, most of the homes are sold before they are built. The buyers are prequalified and may receive counseling on the basics of home ownership and being a landlord. Part of the appeal of a two-family home, of course, has traditionally been that a stable rent income helps pay the mortgage. 
 But with prices rising so fast at Southwyck, Mr. Baris said, he is beginning to see buyers who are weighing the options. ''Some people ask themselves: should we buy a new two-family for $400,000, or a larger house, built in 1940, with no tenant, probably no garage, maybe an old kitchen for $125,000 less?''
 Some other older neighborhoods are experiencing significant increases in average sale price too, he said.
 He mentioned the Vailsburg and Ivy Hill neighborhoods, which run along the Newark border with Maplewood and South Orange. ''You can drive into Ivy Hill, and you won't know you've left South Orange,'' Mr. Baris asserted. ''The prices there have gone way up, but they're still much lower than South Orange, so it has become very attractive.''
 In the Forest Hill neighborhood, replete with huge Victorians and old stone manors, the asking prices have also skyrocketed in the last few years, Mr. Baris said.
 ''You've gone from a situation where you might have sold a house for $225,000 three or four years ago, and the owner would give you a big hug at the closing, to one where asking prices are hitting $600,000,'' he said. ''I saw one on the market recently for $699,000.''
 Jordan Baris harks back 20 years, to a time when the city had so much abandoned and vacant property fall into its hands that it had to hire his company just to make a simple inventory. His 41-year-old son recalls when property owners were so eager to get rid of their houses and apartment buildings that hundreds of them actually paid a $150 fee to the city to take them.
 ''Given all this, Newark is becoming an incredible success story,'' the younger Mr. Baris said. ''The numbers are really up. You can't even argue with it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: AN INCREASINGLY COMFORTABLE AREA -- Some of the 100 two-family homes that have been built in the first phase of development at Southwyck Estates in Newark's South Ward. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Housing; Area Planning and Renewal; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing

ORGANIZATION: Jordan Baris Realty

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Newark (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



332 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; POETRY CHRONICLE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2462 words

BYLINE: By Joel Brouwer and Joshua Clover. 
Joel Brouwer is the author of two books of poems, ''Exactly What Happened'' and ''Centuries.'' He teaches at the University of Alabama. Joshua Clover's most recent book is ''The Matrix''; his next collection of poems, ''The Totality for Kids,'' will be published at the end of the year.

 BODY:
 WHILE WE'VE STILL GOT FEET: New Poems. By David Budbill. (Copper Canyon, paper, $15.) Budbill belongs to the tradition in American letters inaugurated by Thoreau and continuing today in manifestations both benign (Wendell Berry) and malignant (Ted Kaczynski), wherein the writer abandons the cacophony of human society for a little paradise in the woods, but instead of quietly living out his days in smog-free solitude insists on coming to town (or writing an essay, or mailing a bomb) every few months to remind us of what a benighted existence we're living. Budbill's Walden, in Vermont, sounds like an enchanting place, with a ''lovely garden / sleeping quietly now under the snow,'' ''an evening grosbeak / perched on the topmost branch of the / fifty-foot-high white pine tree / here on the edge of the dooryard'' and days filled with reverie. Still, it seems presumptuous for Budbill to assume we'd want to crash his hermitage: ''So much silence / is frightening. Better not come here if you / don't want to fall in upon yourself. Better yet, / better not come here at all.'' Such moments are few, though. Budbill's frank self-awareness keeps him from sounding smug for long; he's quick to include himself among the benighted. When Budbill's on his mountain, he longs for the city, and vice versa. Fame, wealth and sex are false gods, he insists, but he hastens to add that he still, at times, craves all three. These are not new ideas -- a list of references in the book shows how strongly he's been influenced by the classical Chinese poets -- but they find fresh expression here, thanks to Budbill's good humor and gusto. Joel Brouwer
 TANTALUS IN LOVE. By Alan Shapiro. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.) ''All the new thinking is about loss,'' begins Robert Hass's ''Meditation at Lagunitas,'' one of the bellwether poems of our climate. ''In this it resembles all the old thinking.'' Isn't it pretty to think so? Poetry of loss these days, however painful or redemptive, seems to take cold comfort in shutting out complexity, and the possibility there's something new under the sun. Shapiro is an eloquent example. In ''Tantalus in Love,'' he thinks incessantly of loss. A marriage fails, loved ones die, the clock steams pitilessly along; meanwhile, the quatrains run on time. Those who've encountered the author's seven previous collections will recognize the territory. Shapiro handles these universal subjects with acuity; he cuts his eyes at discreet domestic details and they cut back. The husband's lacerated rhapsodizing over his distant wife's foot-of-the-bed yoga practice, in the poem ''Anger,'' is to die for; you can't decide whom to like less, and that's what keeps the poem interesting. Such tightly framed tales of domesticity offer a sense of control parallel to Shapiro's formal facility, reducing and clarifying the poem's field of action in defense against an abysmal multiplicity of things. Who wouldn't, these days, want to imagine that the bedroom, even the unhappy one, is the true arena of our lives? Such strategic exclusions can go too far. ''Didn't someone say somewhere,'' he asks at the end of ''Anger,'' ''if you shot an arrow it would never / reach its target, since the distance could / be halved, and halved, and halved, ad infinitum?'' Yes, someone did: Zeno, as it happens. We all know this, Shapiro included; why pretend otherwise? An austerity program of the sensibilities is one thing; playing dumb amid classical philosophical references is quite another. Joshua Clover
 THE LAST TIME I SAW AMELIA EARHART: Poems. By Gabrielle Calvocoressi. (Persea, paper, $13.95.) Calvocoressi brings keen and sympathetic attention to the local disasters the larger world has often overlooked, from a 1944 circus fire to a small town poisoned by its factory to even less visible dramas of personal longing and loss. The political edge in a poem like ''The Death of Towns,'' which describes an industrial town of ''huddled and wheezing'' workers and a river so poisoned the fish ''wore their organs / on the outside,'' recalls the work of Muriel Rukeyser, but Eavan Boland is a more pervasive influence here; like her, Calvocoressi is more interested in archetypal history than in documentary particulars. In the book's long title poem, a succession of speakers project their own yearnings onto Earhart, gradually turning her into a metaphor for the American dream of escape. When a high school teacher who took her class to see Earhart fly says of one student, ''Camille's father lost an arm / to the canning factory. / She left us to take his place,'' the antecedent for ''she'' remains ambiguous. Just as the daughter left school for the cannery, Earhart left earth to provide us all with a dream of transcendence. Calvocoressi's ability to shape and control complex long poems is remarkable, but at times she keeps her subjects at arm's length. ''From the Adult Drive-In'' is the best of the four long poems that make up the bulk of this collection, largely because its narrator, an adolescent who watches the forbidden films from her hiding place in ''the darkening pines,'' doesn't just observe but implicates herself: ''What was it they wanted that I wanted too?'' J.B.
 LETTERED CREATURES: Light Verse. By Brad Leithauser. Illustrated by Mark Leithauser. (Godine, $19.95.) A chaotic world made manageable (and memorable) via ordering of parts is the ''New Formalist'' dream; it has no more formidable dreamer than Brad Leithauser. MacArthur grantee and author of carefully wrought poems including a verse novel, Leithauser has made a book ideally suited to his talents. ''Lettered Creatures'' is both abecedary and bestiary, from ''Anteater'' to ''Zedonk'' (my dictionary offers the felicitous alternative ''zonkey''). It's packed with charming rhymes (''reader'' / ''Bottom Feeder,'' ''joey'' / ''vertigo-y'') and gallivanting lexicon, justified in ''Octopi'': ''Only the outsize net / Of an odd, overwrought vocabulary / Offers the slightest possibility / Of capturing our inky souls.'' Moments later he drops the word ''obnubilating''; one can be certain he means it. The book is illustrated by his brother, Mark, whose work is said to resemble Audubon's and Tenniel's. Maybe so; it has an affinity also to the animations in Tim Burton's movies, the sort of menacing comic melancholy that really spruces up a camel. This strikes the right tone for reputedly ''light verse,'' pushing the book into the category kids' stuff for adults. In that, the Leithausers' rhyme syndicate is the complement of Tenniel and his collaborator Lewis Carroll, whose Alice put adult stuff on offer for kids. J.C.
 PYX. By Corinne Lee. (Penguin, paper, $18.) A pyx is a box used to store the bread-become-flesh of the Eucharist. Lee's book functions similarly, as a container for the daily bread of life experiences -- marriage and motherhood, in particular -- transubstantiated into poetry. The means of transformation are naturally not divine, but lingual. Packed with extravagant sounds and elaborate vocabularies, ''Pyx'' is a great joy to read aloud. Picking lines almost at random I find ''fall's leaf smoke slips in, / a vellum gravy / on our tongues,'' children returning from play ''shellacked with muck'' and ''sacristies hold caches / of crutches flung aside / like chopsticks.'' Such surfeits of sound can sometimes feel as campy as kazoo music, and Lee's determination to never, ever select the expected word can lead to awkwardness and obscurity. There's no reason to say ''the vox populi queried,'' when ''the people asked'' would do, and the book is rife with lines that probably hold fairly straightforward significance but are too heavily cloaked in metaphor to be understood. ''Slurry'' begins, ''I'll not be covert / and, thus, your capital. Take your pill: Today / is my cedar / disposition,'' which I might be able to make sense of, were I not in such a tamarack mood myself. More often than not, though, Lee is able to focus and control her considerable gifts, and the results can be glorious, as when she describes a baby as ''a fontanel, / cooing and crested / with auburn down, filling / my breasts' cleft. Day-old colostrum / like nougat / on her slightly older chin. Both pinnacle and vortex, / she is. Will always be.'' J.B.
 LEDGER. By Susan Wheeler. (University of Iowa, paper, $14.) Wheeler's poetry doesn't shy from difficulty, complexity or confusion. Her lyrical mode is often one of delight: ''Tyvek Bruce Willis Buffalo Bertelsman,'' she offers in her new book, and ''Nike Iowa Snapple Foucault.'' Nonsense syllables with juicy mouthfeel, or life in the forest of brand names and word games? Either way, Wheeler holds a door open for the jumble of history: Dutch painting and British theology room with old riddles and New York Times articles. If ''Ledger'' brings an order to the world's welter, it's that it speaks often of debt and admits often of guilt. Economics and emotion face each other across a charged field; stuff gathers in the middle, glittery as a sack of diamonds. The risk is that it's just data, Frank O'Hara's ''I do this, I do that'' poem with the ''I'' sidelined, and seeing in place of doing. It would still then be a book of our times, fascinated as these poems are by, in one critic's words, ''mobility, elusiveness, disembodiment, pure visibility and confinement to the world of signs.'' That sounds abstract; at the drop of a hat, Wheeler gets down to brass tacks. Or gold tacks, perhaps. The knockout final poem, ''The Debtor in the Convex Mirror'' (the title nodding to John Ashbery), tracks that trivial thing abounding with metaphysical subtleties and theological niceties, the gold coin. This ''fragment of the debt'' leads us from 16th-century Antwerp to today, ending in Brooklyn with the question of what we owe each other left aching and unresolved -- much less the question of how we'll pay, when saddled with ''Zero / and then sum.'' J.C.
 CRUSH. By Richard Siken. (Yale University, cloth, $26; paper, $14.95.) Siken's title is meant to suggest both that fizzy eighth-grade feeling and the anaconda that tightens in our guts when love fails, but above all the choice between rock and hard place all lovers must make: pursue and risk rejection, or withdraw and risk loneliness. Siken's solution to this quandary is implicit in the title of the book's first poem, ''Scheherazade.'' If he can keep the narrative of his amorous obsession in constant motion, he can defer romantic failure forever. Of course, he'll reach no happy ending. But Siken's not much interested in endings or beginnings; his territory is the passionate apex of an affair, where ripeness first tips toward rot. As Siken teeters on that summit, hysteria creeps into his lines, especially in the virtuosic ''Saying Your Names,'' where the poet struggles to hold on to his lover (referred to in other poems as Henry) by enmeshing him in a web of alternative names: ''Your name like two X's like punched-in eyes, / like a drunk cartoon passed out in the gutter, / your name with two X's to mark the spots, / to hold the place, to keep the treasure from / becoming ever lost.'' An entire book at this pace would become exhausting, but Siken deftly balances such headlong passages with more stately, deliberate lines: ''Every morning the same big / and little words all spelling out desire, all spelling out / You will be alone always and then you will die.'' Best of all are the poems where Siken's passion and eloquence collide and fuse: ''This is where the evening / splits in half, Henry, love or death. Grab an end, pull hard, / and make a wish.'' J.B.
 THIS CONNECTION OF EVERYONE WITH LUNGS: Poems. By Juliana Spahr. (University of California, cloth, $45; paper, $16.95.) Both of the extended pieces that constitute Spahr's new book -- ''Poem Written After September 11, 2001'' and ''Poem Written From November 30, 2002, to March 27, 2003'' -- start with the cellular, the intimate, and reach after the whole shebang. It's political poetry the way it's love poetry; how can it not be, when you go for the everything? The longer, latter portion tracks the approach to the war in Iraq, in fact and in public speech, via some data fountain like Google News. But this means we're soaking in it: cloned sheep, global warming, Ben and J.Lo (Those were the days!). It's a poetics of superinformation: a world where everything is connected, not only by virtue of the Rube Goldberg machine called history, but by the insistent flatness of data, the screen where all that appears, appears equivalent. Spahr is a desolate tenant of this information. She dwells inside the tightening web of connection that links her pointedly plural ''beloveds'' and ''yous'' in their lush corner of Hawaii, to the unceasing cataract of facts, the nausea and euphoria of the new sublime: ''In bed, when I stroke the down on yours cheeks, I stroke also the carrier battle group ships, the guided missile cruisers.'' It's not a comfortable or even manageable condition. The hard-won verdict that ends the book, ''all of us / with all of that,'' is ambivalent, emotionally difficult, as it must be. The book seems, finally, like poetry from the 21st century, poised between trying to vault from the flatness of this new world and trying to inhabit it fully. J.C.
 THE ECLIPSES: Poems. By David Woo. (BOA Editions, paper, $14.95.) Woo's subject is the challenges of caring for his aging parents, and of doing so with a potent combination of deep compassion and cleareyed scrutiny. One poem, ''My Mother's Hands,'' begins, ''Now that she's ashamed of their ancient burls and gibbous knobs -- / 'Don't be ashamed!' I cry -- / I find myself staring at the raw matter of their decay, / nails crumbling to the opalescent grit / of their lunulae, liver spots speckling the dorsal vein / with its throbbing blue limbs, as if the leopard, / symbol of lust in Dante, lay panting, enfeebled, / in the dark wood.'' The honesty here is remarkable: Woo is obviously sympathetic, but he makes no effort to conceal his fascination with his mother's decline. This graceful book succeeds least when the poems are too well behaved; it's disappointing to see a leaf described as ''enflamed with autumn'' or a bobcat ''the size of my neighbor's small collie,'' when we know the poet is capable of fresher ideas. The strongest poems are marked by stern elegance and the faintest strain of anxiety. Where other writers might rage against the dying of the light, he offers subtle internal rhyme and delicate metaphor: ''Today the patches of sunlit mist that flow in / through the foothills and obscure the filigree / on a row of Queen Annes are occlusions / from my mother's CT-scan: that steel-blue blur / on blur of cortex and wine-dark hemorrhage.'' J.B.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Budbill. (Photograph by Robert Eddy)
Gabrielle Calvocoressi. (Photograph by Brigitte Grignet)
Corinne Lee. (Photograph by George Krause)
David Woo. (Photograph by A. Michael Reed)
Juliana Spahr. (Photograph by Candace Ah Nee)
Alan Shapiro. (Photograph by John Rosenthal)
 Susan Wheeler. (Photograph by Jeffrey E. Goldman)Drawings (Drawings by Henrik Drescher)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (89%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Poetry and Poets

PERSON: Joel Brouwer; Joshua Clover; David Budbill; Alan Shapiro; Gabrielle Calvocoressi; Mark Leithauser; Caroline Lee; Susan Wheeler; Richard Siken; Juliana Spahr; David Woo

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



333 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: For Now, the Grass Is Still Greener in Foreign Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
AS the stock market makes its second attempt this year to break out of the doldrums, investors who have stuck with American equities may be feeling a little better. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had its highest close in more than four years on Friday, while the Dow Jones industrial average is now just 360 points from a return to 11,000. 
 But just a quick glance at the performance of stock markets worldwide will make these investors painfully aware that their counterparts abroad are doing much, much better. Although the United States economy is outperforming that of a good portion of the rest of the world, the stock market isn't. 
 ''We are talking about the global economy slowing down, but their stock markets are going up,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis.
 What may make American investors feel even worse is that they have been denied most of the good performance in international markets because of the sudden rally in the dollar -- except against a few emerging-market currencies like those of Mexico and Brazil.
 The dollar is not likely to weaken much very soon, said Paresh Upadhyaya, a portfolio manager at Putnam Investments. He said his quantitative guideposts remained positive across the board for the dollar.
 But while global investors still seem to favor stocks outside the United States, the trend could be shifting. And that would be good for American investors who decided to stay home. 
 The S.&P. 500 is now up 1.3 percent for the year, but the FTSE 100 index in Britain is up 8.7 percent, in pounds. It reached a 38-month high last Thursday, just five trading days after the terrorist bombings in London. (In dollar terms, that gain becomes a loss of 0.6 percent.)
 Other foreign markets are also doing well. While the Dow is still down 1.3 percent for the year, the S.&P. ASX 200 index in Australia is up 6 percent in Australian dollars (1.4 percent in American dollars). Even the Nikkei 225 is up 2.4 percent, in Japanese yen, though it is down 6.5 percent in dollars.
 Emerging markets, measured by the Morgan Stanley Capital International index, were up 9.9 percent through Thursday, in their local currencies. In dollars, the increase is cut only to 8.4 percent, because of the fall of the dollar against the Mexican peso and the Brazilian real.
 One reason for the better performance of stocks outside the United States is global investors' continuing appetite for the higher returns in emerging stock markets -- and their feeling that other developed markets can offer better performance than those in the United States. 
 ''People remain confident about the global economy and they want riskier assets'' that offer better returns, said David Bowers, the London-based chief global investment strategist for Merrill Lynch.
 ''Investors know no fear,'' he added, ''and if you want risk, you get more risk outside the United States than in the United States.''
 Mr. Bowers follows the predilections of big global institutional investors through Merrill Lynch's monthly survey of fund managers, which covers about 300 institutional investors who together manage about $1 trillion.
 In June, the survey showed that 49 percent of those money managers were underweight in United States stocks. This means that the managers have diverged from their global benchmark index by owning a lower percentage of Wall Street than the index does. Twenty-one percent were overweight in American stocks, for a significant net underweighting of 28 percent. 
 Mr. Bowers says investors tend to favor markets outside the United States when the global economy is healthy and when it appears that prices and inflation are rising.
 The ability to raise prices with increasing inflation makes the earnings potential of economically sensitive stocks, which do well in periods of growth, even more attractive. There are more such stocks and companies outside the United States, Mr. Bowers said.
 But if global growth is slowing and inflation is under control, pricing power is reduced and economically sensitive stocks become less attractive. And that may be happening now, he said, noting the very sharp drop in May and June in the prices-paid index of the Institute for Supply Management and the relatively low level of longer-term interest rates.
 ''If you believe that inflation is a problem, you stay with international stocks and avoid the United States,'' he said. ''If you believe inflation is a head fake, and that earnings are becoming a scarce commodity, then you want to be in the United States.'' That is because, in tougher times, the American market has proved to be a better haven.
 MR. BOWERS warned that money managers could now be shifting their sights back to the United States as inflation worries have subsided. The 28 percent net underweighting of American stocks in the June survey, while significant, was down from 32 percent in May and 43 percent in April.
 If this shift continues, the United States market may have the help it needs to put its stocks back on an upward trend.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Drag on the World''Graph tracks the stock markets of all countries without the U.S. and all countries from January through the present.Percentage change since Dec. 31, 2004, in the M.S.C.I. All Country World index and All Country ex-U.S. index, in local currencies. Both indexes include developed and emerging markets.(Source by Morgan Stanley Capital International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); BOMBINGS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



334 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK ON FILM; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: ... And on Roosevelt Island, Being Afraid, Really Afraid

BYLINE: By JOHN FREEMAN GILL

 BODY:
Harry Small, a Roosevelt Island resident, was suitably horrified by his recent viewing of the gloomy new horror movie ''Dark Water,'' but probably not for the reasons the filmmakers intended.
 ''I thought it was the worst portrayal they could have ever made of this island,'' he said of the film, which stars Jennifer Connelly and largely depicts Roosevelt Island as a filthy hellhole populated by sleazebags, delinquents and an icky wet ghost who leaves the water running.
''Dark Water'' was filmed on Roosevelt Island last year, shutting down Main Street and the aerial tramway for a time. Now, some islanders feel like an insulted host as the unflattering portrayal of their home is projected on more than 2,000 screens nationwide. 
 ''We were good sports,'' said Matthew Katz, who was president of the Roosevelt Island Residents Association during the filming. ''We put up with them for well over a month. They co-opted our streets, they co-opted our school, they co-opted the entrances to our buildings so that people in wheelchairs couldn't get in their front doors.'' 
 In exchange, he said, the filmmakers had produced what amounted to a negative commercial for the island. ''We are in the throes of an effort out here to make Roosevelt Island a destination,'' Mr. Katz said. ''I mean, if ever there was a case of one step forward and 20 steps backward, this is it.''
 As critics have pointed out, ''Dark Water'' is a movie about the horror of being priced out of the Manhattan real estate market. When the main character, an unemployed divorcee, rides the tram with her daughter for the first time, the girl points at Roosevelt Island and says, ''Mommy, that's not the city.''
 After disembarking, they're shown a decrepit one-bedroom. As Roger Ebert wrote of Ms. Connelly's character in the Chicago Sun-Times: ''She takes the apartment, violating the ancient tradition that movie characters always live in apartments they could never afford in real life. She can afford this one. It's just that, well, that stain in the ceiling seems sort of malevolent.''
 Dennis Rice, a spokesman for Walt Disney Studios, whose Touchstone Pictures division released the film, said the filmmakers regretted upsetting Roosevelt Islanders, but he did not expect ''Dark Water'' to have a long-term effect on the island's image.
 ''If anything,'' he added, ''it might be something that tells other people it's a great place to make a movie.'' JOHN FREEMAN GILL


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''The worst portrayal they could have ever made,'' said Harry Small,below, of the film ''Dark Water,'' starring Jennifer Connelly, left. (Photos by Top, James Bridges/Touchstone Pictures
 above, Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); HORROR FILMS (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); REAL ESTATE (70%) Motion Pictures

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: John Freeman Gill; Jennifer Connelly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Roosevelt Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



335 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Fairfield Offices: Leases Tepid, Sales Hot

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: Norwalk 

 BODY:
IN Fairfield County, the business of leasing space in office buildings is a struggle. Office vacancies are as high as 24 percent in Stamford, and average annual rents are down from a peak of the mid-$40's a square foot in 2000 to the mid-$30's.
 The rest of the county has vacancies varying from 17 to 21 percent, except for Greenwich. There, vacancies are around 14 percent, and annual rental rates remain at $48 to $70 a square foot. 
Of the county's 44.162 million square feet of office space, the amount available for lease totals 7.8 million square feet, including 1.4 million for sublease, according to figures supplied by CB Richard Ellis and Cushman & Wakefield. 
 Still, there are some signs of improvement. ''The good news,'' said Robert Caruso, managing director of CB Richard Ellis's Stamford office, ''is that the middle of the market is starting to recover, with deals of 10,000 to 50,000 square feet. That's up almost 50 percent.'' 
 And Ed Tonnessen, a senior vice president at Albert B. Ashforth Inc., noted that ''rents for the best located properties in Stamford are up 15 percent over the last nine months.'' But, he cautioned, ''second and third choice locations are not rising.'' 
 As for the business of investing in real estate, the trends are generally seen as stronger than in the rental market. ''The economy is good, the fundamentals of the market are improving and investor demand is huge,'' said James Fagan, senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield. ''A lot of our clients say they want to be in real estate because of the stock market's low performance.''
 In the desirable area around Stamford's train station, where UBS and Metro Center -- two of the city's important buildings -- stand, Mr. Fagan said, ''Metro II will be one of the next spec buildings to come out of the ground, adding to Metro Center's campus and fueled by current tenants expanding from the existing building.''
 A site opposite UBS, owned by the Louis Dreyfus Property Group, Mr. Fagan said, ''is scheduled to become the American headquarters of the Royal Bank of Scotland.''
 ''It will,'' he said, ''be taller than any other Stamford building, containing 700,000 square feet and accommodating 3,000 employees.'' Currently, Stamford's tallest property is the 22-story Landmark Building. Spokesmen at W&M Properties, the developer of Metro Center, and at the Louis Dreyfus Group declined to comment. 
 A long-vacant downtown site is to be proposed for a 320,000-square-foot office building by Lowe Enterprises of Los Angeles. Eileen Circo, senior vice president for the firm's Northeast development region, said: ''We have a 99-year ground lease on just under three acres,'' which are on Tresser Boulevard behind the Rich Forum and the Catholic church and its rectory. ''There are major prelease tenants in the market and activity is discernibly greater here than 18 months ago,'' she added. The architectural firm of Kohn Pedersen Fox is designing the building.
 Meanwhile, new construction is moving up the Route 7 corridor from Norwalk through Wilton. Building and Land Technologies' new 360,000-square-foot building will open for leasing next month at its 1.4-million-square-foot Merritt on the River office and residential complex in Norwalk, and the Davis Companies is preparing to start on two new buildings at its Wilton Corporate Park. Both projects are speculative.
 A smaller Baywater Properties venture in Wilton, consisting of two colonial-style office buildings covering 50,000 square feet, has preleased 20,000 square feet to a surgery center and medical offices; the rest is being marketed to lawyers, money managers and other professionals.
 Building and Land Technologies' new eight-story structure at Merritt on the River is one of three office buildings surrounding a central square secluded from the rest of the complex and enhanced with numerous built-in architectural planters filled with flowers. It is approached up a ramp off Route 7, not far from the Merritt Parkway. The buildings are sheathed in matching curtain walls of glass in a deep blue color, and there is an elegant outdoor cafe in front of one building. 
 The other two buildings are 100 percent leased. One is occupied by Diageo, the giant international wine and liquor corporation, for whom Carl Kuehner, chief executive of Building and Land Technologies, and his brother, Paul Kuehner, chief financial officer, built this American headquarters. 
 The other holds Hewitt Associates, a human relations consulting company, whose headquarters was built by the Fusco Corporation in 2001 and bought by Building and Land Technologies, along with 13 of the 20 acres that the Kuehners have developed along the Norwalk River. 
 The new building has underground parking for 1,100 cars, a full-service cafeteria and spaces of 30,000 square feet to 100,000 square feet. ''We will build out space for tenants,'' Paul Kuehner said, ''and we have done several test fit-ups.'' The complex also includes a former Caldor store converted to an office building, which is 98 percent leased. 
 In Wilton, the Davis Companies' 260,000-square-foot former Perkin-Elmer building, which it renovated for $93 million in 2001, and another existing office building will soon have company.
 According to David P. Fiore, senior vice president for Connecticut Properties, Davis is preparing plans for a 75,000-square-foot building to be situated within the campus traffic circle, and a second 150,000-square-foot building elsewhere on the 33-acre tract.
 ''Activity has been pretty constant,'' Mr. Fiore said. ''The park is fully leased.''
 At present, the hottest sector of the office market is sales of existing office buildings. In terms of the number of sales, ''volume is up by 80 to 100 percent from last year,'' said Jeffrey R. Dunne, vice chairman of CB Richard Ellis's Tristate Investment Team, ''when we did $1.3 billion for the year throughout the area. This year to date we've already done $1.5 billion, with approximately $350 million of it in Connecticut.'' 
 CB Richard Ellis handled the blockbuster sale in Greenwich of 55 Railroad Avenue in January, when the property sold for $97.5 million, or $743 a foot.
 Recently, Cushman & Wakefield also had a stunning deal, brokering the sale of the building occupied by Unilever at 33 Benedict Place in Greenwich for $87.5 million, or $733 a square foot.
 Based on the price per square foot, the two sales are comparable to prices commanded for high-end buildings in Manhattan.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A BUSY CORRIDOR -- A new 360,000-square-foot building will open for leasing next month at the Merritt on the River office and residential complex in Norwalk. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Renting and Leasing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (62%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (56%); CBRE GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (62%); RBS (LSE) (62%); RBS (AMS) (62%); CBG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Fairfield County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



336 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2104 words

HEADLINE: What Happens When Builders Build Their Own

BYLINE: By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

DATELINE: BRIARCLIFF MANOR 

 BODY:
THE Messer family's dream home has a swinging bookcase that leads to a secret passage, a treehouse made from 1930's-era garage doors, a nautically themed master bathroom recently featured in a national magazine, and glass-fronted kitchen drawers filled with jelly beans, Chiclets, Tootsie Rolls and Jolly Ranchers. 
 But Eric Messer is a contractor; his family, after 12 years in this 4,000-square-foot home abandoned long ago by a bankrupt developer, are overdue for a dream change. Although the house's transformation took more than a decade -- and his wife and two sons put up with various stages of construction for much of that time -- the Messers are ready to move into another home-in-progress.
Their destination awaits them across town. It is a splanch -- a boxy 2,200-square-foot amalgam of split-level and ranch design that was contemporary when Eisenhower was president. 
 Despite a rickety carport in front, a healthy crop of moss on the tar-coated roof, and a heating system well beyond its useful life, the family is eager to move inside. The house has great potential -- which is all they require. 
 ''The bones are there, and we'll make it desirable,'' said Mr. Messer, owner of Sunrise Building and Remodeling in Briarcliff Manor.
 An adventurous home improvement spirit like his is presumably what the rest of us search for when hiring someone to renovate our homes. We want a builder whose own home provides concrete evidence of expertise, talent and taste -- even if we never actually see the place.
 Perhaps that is why builders can be fanatical about owning the biggest, most up-to-date homes they can afford. Or perhaps their quest has more to do with the significant tax break available on their resale profit, for a primary residence they have been living in. 
 In Westchester County's superheated real estate market, resale values can be substantial. The county has had the highest residential home sales prices in New York State for years; in May, the median price of a single-family home was $700,500, according to the New York State Association of Realtors. That number, still on the increase, will probably set a record for the second quarter of this year, according to P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Westchester County Board of Realtors.
 ''The activity has shifted from new residential building to renovations, fueled by low interest rates and the tremendous equity people have in their homes,'' said Albert A. Annunziata, executive director of the Builders Institute, a trade organization based in Armonk. 
 Even beyond the investment value their own homes offer, many builders view them as flagships to impress high-end clients or to feature on the company Web site.
 They tend to equip the homes with a hodgepodge of the latest gadgetry, usually bought from repeat suppliers at a steep discount. They may also favor material thrown away by other homeowners or left over from job sites. 
 All these factors can sometimes produce a house not thoroughly welcomed by neighbors -- who may have less eclectic ideas about what constitutes good taste.
 EVEN a builder has his own budget and limitations,'' said Barry L. Cohen, a developer. ''The money is not endless.'' Nevertheless Mr. Cohen recently finished building his family a 6,000-square-foot house on five acres at the end of a 900-foot driveway in Pound Ridge. 
 Mr. Cohen, who has owned J.B.C. Development since 1997, estimates that he spent more than $1 million on his five-bedroom, five-bath, two-half-bath, shingle-style Colonial. It had to be very large, he explained, because when he resells it, he wants to ask more than $2.5 million, and any home at that price has to have at least 5,500 square feet. He also said buyers of such homes expect at least one bathroom for every bedroom.
 In addition to features typically associated with this size house, like granite-topped kitchen counters, fixtures with satin-nickel finishes and a walk-in steam shower seemingly large enough to fit a family of five, there are extras like a six-zone heating system, total home wiring for alarm, heat and stereo system, bundled network cabling, touch-pad lighting and heated cobblestone floors.
 (One luxurious element that he wouldn't choose again: the cedar shingles on the exterior. They have proven extremely popular with Pound Ridge's woodpecker population. Next time, he plans to use hardier synthetic shingles, made to look like wood.) 
 He had intended to use the home as a sales tool -- one that he could show to potential buyers to demonstrate the quality of his work. 
 ''But it's a Catch-22,'' he said, ''because you want to impress people but it's a privacy issue because I don't want to bring strangers into my house like a revolving door.''
 Nor did he really want to show the house to customers tackling more modest renovations, because its features and amenities were out of their price range. 
 For his part, Mr. Messer has solved the privacy problem, as well as the embarrassment of having a nicer home than some of his clients, by anonymously featuring select parts of the house on his Web site, sunrisebuilding.com. He included three of his bathrooms and his kitchen, although they aren't labeled as such.
 The desire for more expensive materials comes naturally in the business, he said: ''If I put granite countertops in 20 kitchens, why would I want to come home to Formica tops?'' Moreover he finds it useful to install all the latest plumbing fixtures, hardware and cabinetry in his own home, ''because I get to test out the products'' before using them on a customer's house. 
 This is music to Mrs. Messer's ears -- although she knows she is in for another wait before getting to try out contraptions like a kitchen drawer that is actually a small dishwasher or another that is a minirefrigerator. The canon of Newer is Better is religiously adhered to by builders and contractors -- even those who have been in the business for decades.
 ''It is absolutely essential that I live in a house of my own design, preferably a new one,'' said Arnold J. Foster, 87, who has built hundreds of homes in the Boston area and, more recently, about a half-dozen in Westchester.
 His current home, 5,500 square feet of gabled stone and stucco in Yonkers, was built on the site of a much smaller 1950's Colonial he tore down in 1998. The new place has a two-story central foyer, five bedrooms and five bathrooms.
 Such homes are rewarding to builders and contractors financially as well as personally. Acutely aware of the investment potential, some call it the best opportunity to build wealth in America. If a contractor sells a primary residence in which he has lived for two out of five years, a profit of up to $500,000 is tax free, according to Leonard M. Sander, a Tarrytown accountant. If he renovates during that time, profits can be substantial. 
 This tax exclusion was clearly important to the Messers, who sold their home for $1.14 million. ''We don't know the stock market,'' Mr. Messer said, ''but we do know how to remodel houses.''
 Another source of savings: Supplies can often be bought at a discount, and odds and ends left over from other jobs can be used. Builders make a point of telling suppliers that the merchandise is for their own home, with a view to getting a discount.
 ''I would expect them to do something for me when I'm a loyal customer,'' Mr. Cohen said, adding that he had probably bought much of what he needed for his own home closer to cost than if he had been building a house for others.
 Builders are adept at finding unwanted treasures in the trash, or in the surplus pile. Mr. Messer installed a door in his home that had been thrown out by a client in Irvington, and he sometimes culls excess Italian tiles elsewhere. Mr. Cohen used discarded barn siding for a built-in wall unit that now surrounds a large plasma television set. He also saved an 1800's outhouse from a client's property; he uses it as a storage shed next to his driveway. 
 WHAT, generally, are the neighbors' reactions to contractor dream homes? Sometimes, as in Mr. Foster's case in Yonkers, they are less than delighted. 
 After he had razed what he called ''a reject home'' in Lawrence Park West, he built one nearly three times the size in its place. Unsurprisingly, the home does not quite blend into its environment of traditional Tudors and center-hall Colonials.
 ''I don't particularly like what it looks like, and I don't think it conforms to the neighborhood as well as it could,'' said a neighbor, who refused to give her name because, she said, she didn't want to stir up bad feelings. 
 Mr. Foster's response to this anonymous criticism: ''I think that's a case of sour grapes, because my house is a little larger.''
 On the other hand, Terrence A. Price's Yonkers neighbors couldn't be happier with his work. Mr. Price bought a run-down 6,000-square-foot Victorian built in 1892 and has spent 11 years renovating the place, which he called ''my showroom.''
 A neighbor, Michael Ingram, was enthusiastic in his compliments, saying Mr. Price's efforts had increased his own property values. The house, he said, ''is beautiful, it's in impeccable taste, it's creative.''
 Every room in the house is painted a different color; there are Palladian windows with leaded glass, as well as 10 fireplaces, and Hudson River views from the redone porch and newly terraced backyard. There is also a pool with a templelike pool house that Mr. Price designed and built.
 Mr. Price's partner, Milton A. Buras, described him as the kind of person who can ''walk into a space and know what it should look like.''
 As an example, Mr. Buras remembered an occasion several years ago, when ''I wanted to have lunch outside, but we didn't have a table.
 ''He said, 'If you make the lunch, I'll make the table.'''
 With legs and braces made from a nearby birch tree and leftover boards for the top, the table was ready before the hamburgers.
 Whatever neighbors may think about the new homes, though, there is no question that many appreciate having a builder nearby. 
 Mr. Cohen, for example, lives near three neighbors on a private road that desperately needed repaving. He recently found an excavator and a paving company at reduced rates -- a favor for which the neighbors were grateful, because they all had to share the cost.
 Mr. Cohen's wife, Jamie, says she appreciates living in a house with the man who built it. ''He knows every wire in the house,'' she said, ''and if there's a leak, he knows exactly where it's coming from.'' 
 Mrs. Messer, making a related point, said friends ''call here when they have an emergency, because their husbands can't fix anything.'' She added that she likes being married to a man who ''really knows how to do everything and how to plan it.'' 
 There are of course the contractors who are too busy to be meticulous about their own home renovations, she added, and they often infuriate their spouses. 
 ''Wives can't stand it if they are in perpetual construction, when their husbands squeeze in the work on nights and weekends,'' she said, especially if the family ends up with no kitchen or bathroom for four years. 
 ''I know many contractors who live in half-built houses,'' she said, ''and each project goes on forever. It causes real marital strife if not planned properly.''
 THAT was not a problem for George S. Braverman, a builder who decided to surprise his wife, Claire, by renovating the bathroom in their 10-year-old house during a week when she was away last fall.
 Mr. Braverman, owner of Nantucket Home Builders, hid all the materials in a shed on the couple's White Plains property, as well as at a house he was building. He made sure that his plumber and carpenter were hiding around the corner on the Saturday morning that his wife left.
 ''The code word for them to show up was 'The chicken has flown the coop,''' Mr. Braverman recalled. Working fast, he and his crew discovered ''how many guys you can get into a bathroom.'' It's about 10, he said.
 This kind of busman's holiday is not for every builder. Norm P. Jen, who has lived in his 2,400-square-foot house in Chappaqua for 12 years, has completed just two modest renovation projects on it. An owner of the Jenesis Building Corporation in Chappaqua along with his two brothers, Mr. Jen has three children, all of whom are competitive swimmers. 
 ''When I come home, the last thing I contemplate doing is ripping my own house apart,'' he said, adding that his house is already ''nice and comfortable, and everything works.'' 
 Mr. Jen spends his time attending swim meets -- at least three a week.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Messer turned his early-90's contemporary in Briarcliff Manor, top, into the family dream home, but now it's time for a new dream, so the Messers are moving across town to a ''splanch,'' below, the it-house of the Eisenhower era. As Mr. Messer sees it, ''The bones are there, and we'll make it desirable.'' Arnold Foster's 5,500-square-foot stucco and stone home in Yonkers, left, a version of today's trophy house, replaced a much smaller 1950's Colonial. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The transparent drawer fronts, far left, in the Messer house in Briarcliff Manor and the walk-in pantry in the Price house in Yonkers, right, are the kinds of features that contractors frequently include when designing their own homes. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)
 A staircase in the 1892 Yonkers home, above left, of Terrence A. Price. With its Hudson River views, below, and the templelike pool house Mr. Price designed and built, neighbors say the house has increased the value of theirs. One of five baths, above right, in the Pound Ridge home of Barry L. Cohen. For resale purposes, he included a bath for each bedroom. And as a nod to history, he salvaged an 1800's outhouse, right, from another site. It is used as a tool shed. The dining room, left, in the Yonkers home of Arnold Foster, who considers it ''absolutely essential that I live in a house of my own design.'' (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (86%); COUNTIES (85%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Housing

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (52%)

PERSON: Eric Messer; Barry Cohen; Carin Rubenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Westchester County (NY); Briarcliff Manor (NY); Pound Ridge (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



337 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; CROSS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Boatcraft Tried and True

BYLINE: By Debra West

 BODY:
A GROUP of ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'' episodes this summer focused on a man who created a boatbuilding and maritime skills program for Bronx teenagers. 
 The man, Adam Green, is executive director of Rock the Boat, an after-school and summer program based on 174th Street near the Cross-Bronx Expressway. But Mr. Green has spread his good works to Westchester, too. 
A year ago, he took his Rock the Boat students to Philipsburg Manor, a living-history museum in Sleepy Hollow, where they spent six weeks learning to build boats 18th-century style. As if boatbuilding weren't hard enough with electric saws and laser levels, they worked on a 21-foot flat-bottom boat using handmade wooden tools and a lot of sweat. 
 ''The kids learned about Colonial history and its connections to the waterways,'' said Mr. Green, who founded Rock the Boat in 1996 and has built 14 other boats with more modern methods. The boat made last summer is now moored on the Pocantico River, as it would have been in 1750 when merchant-owners, tenant farmers and slaves worked the property. 
 And Rock the Boat is back at Philipsburg Manor this summer, with 16 students working on an 18-foot cargo scow, a boat that hauls supplies from one side of a river to another. The students dress in Colonial costume, because part of their job is to show and tell visitors to Philipsburg Manor what it was like to live in 18th-century America. 
 When the scow is complete, it will be moored at another Historic Hudson Valley property, Van Cortlandt Manor, in Croton-on-Hudson.
 Of course, for the students whom Mr. Green works with, a trip to Westchester is sometimes a bit like time travel. 
 ''We bring them up in a van,'' Mr. Green said, ''and it is 30 minutes door to door. In 30 minutes they go from the Bronx to a place where sheep are roaming around. We're not just teaching boatbuilding, we're teaching the possibilities of life -- something that's hard to learn if you never get off the block.'' 
 For a new spin on reality television, the producers of ''Queer Eye'' might consider hiring Mr. Green to encourage their contestants into be more socially conscious. Now that would be must-see programming. 

Make Your Own Kayak
 For those who would like to learn more contemporary boatbuilding methods, and who don't mind being farther from actual water, there is Fox Lane Boatworks, a wooden-boatbuilding school set to open in Brewster this summer. 
 On the walls of the school, in an elegantly converted barn just off I-684, hang several sleek kayaks that the owners, Paul Pasquantonio and Kerry Critzer, have built for themselves and friends. The shop was completed two years ago, but the partners are still waiting for town permits to be granted (within a few weeks, they hope) so they can open for business. 
 ''This is an art with me,'' said Mr. Pasquantonio, 54. ''I'm just beginning to understand the economic swap I've made to be able to do something I love and eke out a living.''
 They build with traditional design and modern composite construction. Using a technique called stitch and glue, they start with plywood planks stitched together with copper wire, glued together with epoxy and then encapsulated in Fiberglas. The results are a stylish and lightweight boat. The ocean-going kayaks they create are 17 feet long and weigh 45 pounds. 
 It will take about 60 hours and cost about $1,750 to build your own kayak; for $2,500, Fox Lane Boatworks will build it for you. 
 Scott Valentine, 14, of West Harrison, is a kind of pilot-student. He is building his own boat from a ready-made set of plans for a kayak called the Chesapeake Light. He used pre-cut planks, but more experienced carpenters can cut their own. 
 ''There really is no hard part,'' Scott said. ''It's all small simple steps put together.'' 

The Learning Curve
 Follow the simple steps. That's what the students competing in the 18th International Young Physicists Tournament say, too. Only their simple steps are likely to include long mathematical equations on tricky subjects like fluid mechanics, air flow and gravitational pull. 
 Three students from Rye Country Day School are on the five-member Team U.S.A. who went to Winterthur in Switzerland this week to compete in the Physics World Cup. (The other two came from California and Florida.) 
 The Rye students, Jonathan Bohren, Robert Kirkham and Divya Krishnan, have been working on solutions to 14 deceptively simple physics problems since September. Guided by their teacher, Bruce Oldaker, they have tackled questions like the following: How does a dragonfly fly? How does spin affect the trajectory of a tennis ball? What exactly creates a mirage on a hot roadway? 
 At the tournament, the team must investigate each problem, pose mathematical theorems to explain the behavior in question, and then defend their ideas against those of opposing teams. 
 The contest started Thursday and lasts seven days. Last year Team U.S.A., which also had students from Rye Country Day , came in 16th out of the more than 20 teams. 
 ''We're hoping we improve a little over that; we've learned some strategies this time,'' said Mr. Kirkham, 18, who graduated in June and plans to attend Harvard University in the fall of 2006. ''Everyone says the team to beat this year is the Germans.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Pasquantonio of Fox Lane Boatworks, who says of boatbuilding, ''This is an art with me.'' (Photo by Alan Zale for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOAT BUILDING (91%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); RIVERS (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (53%) Boats and Boating; Children and Youth; Philipsburg Manor (North Tarrytown, NY); Kayaks; Boats and Boating; Physics; Contests and Prizes

ORGANIZATION: Fox Lane Boatworks

PERSON: Debra West; Adam Green; Jonathan Bohren; Robert Kirkham; Divya Krishnan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (59%) Brewster (NY); Winterthur (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



338 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: A Diary Comes to Life Musically and Electronically 

BYLINE: By BRIAN WISE

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
AN 1890 music box nestled in the parlor of the Hudson River Museum's Glenview Mansion is easy to overlook amid the clutter of Victorian-era furniture, oil paintings and knickknacks. But thanks to John Morton, a composer who specializes in pieces using electronically altered sounds of music boxes, this antique instrument -- which chimes arias and popular ditties from the early 20th century -- is having its solo turn here through early September. 
 Mr. Morton has created an 11-minute composition, ''The Diaries of Emily Trevor,'' named after a woman who was an original occupant of the 1877 Glenview Mansion and whose father, John Trevor, was a wealthy Wall Street businessman whose money built Glenview. 
The work features sounds from the music box interlaced with recorded snippets from her diaries, which together are reassembled by a computer in collage-like fashion. The result is a study in the meeting of old and new technology that is played over four loudspeakers in the house's parlor. 
 The piece is paid for by a new grant sponsored by the New York State Council of the Arts that brings contemporary artists into historic spaces. The Hudson River Museum was one of four recipients from a pool of 34 applicants in various disciplines. 
 For Mr. Morton, ''The Diaries of Emily Trevor'' is part of a continuing interest in music boxes that began six years ago.
 ''I was a classical composer writing chamber works, performing on piano and having, to be honest, little success,'' he said. ''My wife is a sculptor and she had a show where they wanted artists to create works using children's toys. She approached me and said, 'Why don't we do a music box together?' I said, 'I hate music boxes.' I hate those tunes that go over and over again. She said, 'Well, make up your own tune.' I was sort of intrigued.''
 Since then, Mr. Morton has become adept at ripping out the internal mechanisms of music boxes, reconfiguring them, and turning them into new musical instruments. His surreal, sometimes unsettling music has been featured on National Public Radio, and is collected on ''Outlier: New Music for Music Boxes,'' a 2001 CD on Innova recordings. He has also received grants to write pieces that combine music boxes with old farm equipment and even plumbing parts.
 At the Hudson River Museum, Mr. Morton was faced with a different task. Because the museum's music box, built by the Swiss company Mermod Freres, could not be dismantled, Mr. Morton brought in a Macintosh computer, with software that, when connected to the music box, creates different permutations of pitch, timbre and rhythm. 
 He then approached Claudia Marshall, an announcer at WFUV, the radio station run by Fordham University, who recorded passages from Emily Trevor's diaries. Mr. Morton spent several months working in the mansion's attic with these raw materials, including the music box's interchangeable metal cylinders. 
 The resulting work is an interactive duet between the music box and the computer. ''I like the idea of reclaiming old music and moving it into other currents of the world, but not in a nostalgic way,'' he said. ''It's a way of saying this music continues to live but in another form.''
 Mr. Morton called the diary passages ''the perfect minimalist material'' because they don't tell a story, but rather offer a snapshot of the Trevors' wealthy life. ''The diaries are very plain,'' he said. ''There was no literary aspiration here. It's the affluent life, which gets very dull after a while. There doesn't seem to be any anxiety. It's all wonderful dinners and operas and things like that.''
 Emily Trevor died in 1922, just as Yonkers was starting to lose its status as an industrial and shipping port, and the social and economic disparities in the city were on the rise. The piece contains recorded snippets of the Metropolitan Opera star Enrico Caruso singing Verdi's ''Trovatore,'' which are combined with the increasingly distorted music box sounds, suggesting the dissolution of an era, a gilded age enjoying its last gasp. 
 Mr. Morton said he would eventually like to expand the piece to include live performers. He was recently inspired after attending a gospel service at an African-American church nearby in Yonkers. 
 ''I would love to bring in a gospel choir,'' he said. ''On the one hand, this was a woman's experience of life in Yonkers. On the other hand you have a whole other experience of life from a whole other culture happening just around the block, which she probably had no idea was happening, except maybe from her servants.''
 At a recent unveiling of the installation, visitors reacted to the piece with a mix of interest and bewilderment. Some moved on after a few minutes of the performance, a reaction corroborated by Bartholomew Bland, a curator at the Hudson River Museum. ''We've had some donors complain about it, but we've also had a lot of very positive feedback,'' he said.
 Just as Glenview and its surroundings were changing by the 1920's, music boxes themselves were falling out of fashion, replaced by player pianos and the phonograph. Music box production rapidly disappeared and major companies went out of business. Nevertheless, Mr. Morton sees contemporary technology as a way of preserving the music box.
 ''The music box when it started was really a musical instrument,'' he said. ''People actually wrote pieces for music boxes and would create arrangements for music boxes. It was a form of home entertainment before there were stereos.''
 ''The Diaries of Emily Trevor,'' an installation by John Morton, will be on exhibit through Sept. 11, at the Glenview Mansion, the Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue, Yonkers. Information: (914)963-4550.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Morton, a composer, with his music box installation at the Hudson River Museum.
 A computer creates different pitches, timbres and rhythms. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); PAINTING (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%); PUBLIC RADIO (60%) Music; Diaries; Glenview Mansion (Yonkers, NY); Music Boxes

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Hudson River Museum (Yonkers, NY)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (52%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%)

PERSON: John Morton; Emily Trevor; John Trevor; Brian Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



339 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: A Quest for Green, Not Asphalt

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: PATTERSON 

 BODY:
WHEN Lynn Eckardt, a Brewster resident, senses a bout of serious shopping coming on, she fills the gas tank and heads for a big-box store in Westchester, Fairfield or Dutchess Counties. Close to home in Putnam County, there isn't much to choose from, she said, except for one shopping center and a few small strip malls.
 But for a self-styled tree-hugger like Ms. Eckardt, who owns a garden center in Brewster, driving 20 miles or more to shop at a Costco is a small price to pay for keeping Putnam the way it is: a rich shade of green throughout, only occasionally interrupted by the asphalt of a highway or a parking lot. 
''If shopping were my main concern,'' said Ms. Eckardt, president of the Putnam Smart Growth Alliance, a regional organization of people from area civic and environmental groups, ''I wouldn't have moved to Putnam to begin with. I would have chosen White Plains or Yonkers.''
 In recent months, the Smart Growth Alliance has focused its attentions on a proposed 410,000-square-foot shopping center, with big-box retailers, on the border of Patterson and Kent.
 Expressing the opinion of many in Putnam opposed to the shopping center, Patterson Crossing, Ms. Eckardt called it ''ill conceived and potentially harmful to the environment.'' Her year-old group seeks environmentally conscious regional development that does not result in overcrowded schools, congested roadways, increased taxes or sprawl.
 ''Our goal as an organization is to do what's best for Putnam,'' she said. 
 Petitions being circulated by those opposing Patterson Crossing, claim that it would result in more than 30 acres of paved surfaces in an area where much of the land belongs to the New York City watershed. The petitions also claim, among other things, that small businesses in the area would suffer from the competition.
 But not everyone thinks a big-box shopping center would be bad for Putnam. 
 The Patterson Chamber of Commerce contends that the proposed $100 million retail center would give Putnam the economic boost it needs. As proposed, it would occupy a 90-acre site along Interstate 84 and Route 311, which is already zoned for retail use, with 73 acres in Patterson and 17 acres in Kent. 
 The 100-member chamber of commerce, which is sponsoring an online petition drive in support of the shopping center, estimates it would create hundreds of construction jobs and 500 permanent jobs. The business group predicts the retail center would generate close to $1 million annually in real estate taxes for Patterson -- with much of that going to the Carmel Central School District.
 Opponents dispute those tax projections by the developer, claiming they are inflated. They say that after tax incentives, road costs and other municipal requirements, the amount would be far less.
 But Anthony LoMeli, the chamber's vice president and a Web developer, is firm in his support of the shopping center: ''The problem we see is that there's really no shopping to speak of now in Patterson. We need this.''
 Putnam, which has a population of 100,000 and covers 232 square miles, is one of the fastest-growing counties in the state.
 Paul A. Camarda, the developer of Patterson Crossing and a member of the Patterson Chamber of Commerce, said: ''I call it the Putnam paradox. There's all this spending power in the county, but when it comes to shopping, people drive someplace else because you can't even buy a man's suit here. People sleep in Putnam.''
 Mr. Camarda said he was negotiating with future tenants like Costco and Lowe's Home Improvement Center. Other retailers in the center would include a home furnishings store, an electronics audio-visual store, clothing and sporting goods shops and places to eat.
 But shopping center opponents like Jerry Ravnitzky, president of Concerned Residents of Carmel and Mahopac, a planning and advocacy group, said there was no need for such big stores. Mr. Ravnitzky noted that Brewster Highlands Mall is just several minutes from Mr. Camarda's proposed complex. That mall, which was built in Brewster about five years ago, includes Home Depot, Linens N' Things and Kohl's.
 ''Why chop all those trees down for yet another big-box development so close by,'' Mr. Ravnitzky said. ''The traffic is already backing up on the roads. It's enough.''
 Some of the opposition to the new center is coming from Kent, which will not realize any tax benefits from the project, even though part of the proposed shopping center site is in that town. ''Aside from some asphalt close to residents' backyards, Kent gets very little from it,'' Mr. Ravnitzky said.
 In Kent, one side of the shopping center would be about 85 feet from privately owned parcels, Mrs. Eckardt said.
 Public hearings on the proposal are scheduled before the Patterson planning board for the fall and winter in Patterson, where officials will decide the matter. For now, Michael Griffin, Patterson's supervisor, said he was taking an unbiased stance.
 ''I like what I've seen so far,'' said Mr. Griffin, a Republican who has held the town's top office since 1994. ''But it's way too early to jump to any conclusions.''
 Meanwhile, Ms. Eckardt said her group was hoping officials would strike a middle ground.
 ''We know we can't stop growth altogether,'' she said. ''We're swimming against the tide because many of the elected and appointed officials in the county are pro-development.
 ''But at least if there has to be growth, we want it to be smart growth, sustainable growth, with as little negative impact on the environment as possible.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lynn Eckardt, shown at the site of a proposed shopping center, calls the plan ill conceived. A sign marks the site. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); PETITIONS (88%); TAX LAW (87%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); ZONING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (68%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Economic Conditions and Trends; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Putnam Smart Growth Alliance

PERSON: Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Putnam County (NY); Patterson (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



340 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Early Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: The Lethal Water Wells of Bangladesh

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE; Julfikar Ali Manik contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CHAPAI NAWABGANJ, Bangladesh 

 BODY:
The gaggle of children seemed puzzled by the question. Joly Khatun, a playful 8-year-old girl, said of course she drank water from her neighborhood pump. Muhammad Morsalin, a mischievous 10-year-old boy, said he did, too.
 ''No one told me not to,'' he said. 
 The two children are victims of what the World Health Organization has declared the ''largest mass poisoning of a population in history.'' Their hand-operated water pump in this town in northwestern Bangladesh produces water laced with arsenic. The poison gradually debilitates its victims before spawning cancers that kill them.
 As many as 20 million Bangladeshis drink water contaminated with arsenic, according to American and Bangladeshi researchers; estimates vary widely, but some experts believe arsenic poisoning, if left unchecked, could ultimately cause cancers that could kill millions. . Dr. Allan H. Smith, director of the arsenic research program at the University of California, Berkeley, called the situation ''the highest environmental cancer risk ever found,'' a threat worse than Chernobyl or Bhopal. 
 A decade after Bangladeshi officials confirmed the widespread arsenic contamination, some signs of progress are emerging, according to Bangladeshi officials and American experts. But even as initial steps are taken to counter arsenic poisoning, new complications arise.
 In a step forward, a $30 million project financed by the World Bank and the Swedish government has tested 5 million of the country's 11 million tube wells and found 1.4 million, or roughly 29 percent, to be contaminated, according to Bangladeshi officials. Alternative water supplies are being constructed in 10,000 of the worst affected areas, they said. And after initially refusing to admit the problem, the Bangladeshi government has adopted a national arsenic mitigation strategy.
 But the international and national response remains far too slow, according to Bangladeshi arsenic victims and American experts. They contend that comparatively meager efforts are being made. ''There are simple things to do,'' said Richard Wilson, a Harvard University physicist and arsenic poisoning expert. ''But they're not being done.'' 
 Bangladeshi government and World Bank officials say they are doing their best to counter a staggering problem. Testing and possibly replacing millions of tube wells in Bangladesh, one of the world's poorest countries, is a gargantuan task.
 They also point out that more immediate killers, like bacterial contamination of drinking water, compete for the same resources and attention. Khwaja M. Minnatullah, a senior water and sanitation specialist for the World Bank, said bacteria in drinking water continued to kill about 110,000 children a year in Bangladesh.
 ''This is still the major killer related to drinking water contamination in Bangladesh and across the developing world,'' Mr. Minnatullah said. ''There should be a balanced response to address the whole issue of contamination of drinking water.''
 Chapai Nawabganj illustrates the new complications that have emerged.
 A year after inspectors declared the water at the pump in the impoverished neighborhood of Rajarampur Master Para contaminated, some families use it only to wash clothes and floors, according to residents. But other families, and many neighborhood children, continue to drink from the pump.
 Muhammad Yad Ali, 42, a neighborhood yarn trader, said inspectors painted the water pump's spout red as a warning. But over time, the paint has washed away, and fears of poisoning have faded. Hot and thirsty after playing games, children drink the water in great gulps.
 ''When they first put the red color, everyone became afraid,'' Mr. Ali said. ''Now, they became more relaxed and don't think about the drinking.''
 A new system of piped water is being built, he added. But the slow-moving project has yet to reach Rajarampur Master Para.
 A second neighborhood, Swarupnagar, illustrated another problem. Munir ul Haq, 26, a motor-parts shop owner, said one team tested his neighborhood tube well and declared the water safe to drink. A year later, a second team tested it, declared the water unsafe and painted the spout red. He said residents had stopped drinking the water but were unsure what to believe.
 A half mile away, Sumon Ali, a 20-year-old mechanic, said inspectors declared water from the tube well behind his auto repair shop contaminated two years ago. Ten months ago, he dug a new well a few feet away to create more space for his garage. No one knows if the new tube well is also contaminated.
 The arsenic problem in Bangladesh was born of good intentions. For 20 years, government and United Nations officials, as well as Bangladeshi aid groups, urged Bangladeshis to stop drinking unclean pond water, to prevent the lethal diseases it bred. Instead, they were to invest in tube wells to tap into underground aquifers. Unfortunately, no one tested the aquifers for arsenic. 
 Salma Begum, 30 and the mother of three, lives in the village of Abirpara in central Bangladesh. She is one of 38,118 arsenic patients identified by the World Bank study. (Some experts contend that the number is far higher.) 
 Ms. Begum said her poisoning stemmed from years of drinking from an arsenic-laced well in her home village. She began drinking clean water five years ago, but her health continues to worsen.
 Arsenic kills quickly in high doses, but is a slow and unpredictable attacker in small amounts. It takes 2 to 20 years to unleash its damage, affecting different people in different ways. Some people, including all of Ms. Begum's relatives, drank arsenic-laced water for years and are unaffected. 
 All over Ms. Begum's tiny, slowly withering body, signs of arsenic poisoning have emerged. Ugly and painful boils cover her hands and feet. Her veins protrude from her skin. Dark spots cover her arms, legs and parts of her body she declines to show. Her skin itches endlessly when exposed to sunlight.
 She said her largest problem was a creeping weakness and constant ache in her arms and wrists. Her arms have grown so feeble that she struggles to hold her 2-year-old son and care for her husband and two daughters. As she speaks, she constantly kneads the muscles in her forearms and wrists, as if trying to wring the pain from her flesh.
 Ms. Begum said she could not afford to buy medicine to counter some of the symptoms. She is not alone. Bangladesh's government has adopted a protocol to treat people identified with arsenic poisoning, but the outreach group that aids her, Dhaka Community Hospital, says it does not have adequate financing to provide treatment.
 Ms. Begum, meanwhile, grows weaker and more frustrated by the day. Teams conducting surveys for arsenic victims have interviewed her, she said, but the poison continues to slowly devour her body. 
 ''Visitors come and write down our problems in the notebook,'' she said, as her children clutched at her legs. ''But no action is taken.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Children in Chapai Nawabganj drink water from the neighborhood pump, whose water contains arsenic. ''No one told me not to,'' one said. (Photo by Zakir Hossain for The New York Times)Map of Bangladesh highlighting Chapai Nawabganj: Well water in Chapai Nawabganj and other places, is poisoned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); POISONINGS (90%); CANCER (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); CHILDREN (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (77%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (74%); BACTERIA (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); WATER QUALITY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) BANGLADESH (97%); UKRAINE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005



341 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SQUARE FEET: THE INTERVIEW -- WITH RICHARD I. BERNSTEIN; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: A Leader Who Values Harmony Over Aggression

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
IT isn't easy being a commercial real estate executive. Modern leaders must mix frontier passion with corporate savvy, while traveling in rarefied philanthropic and social circles. 
 So the selection last November of Richard I. Bernstein to lead the fledgling New York outpost of the Trammell Crow Company did not exactly send ripples through the city's brokerage industry. The company, based in Dallas, is a global real estate brokerage, investment sales and management company with annual revenue of $800 million, but until Mr. Bernstein's appointment, it had just 30 people in its New York office.
 If Trammell intended to gain fat institutional clients from industry megaliths like CB Richard Ellis, his former employer, some insiders expected a higher-profile leader than the mild-mannered Mr. Bernstein. 
 A broker with 16 years' experience, Mr. Bernstein, 52, had built a reputation as a strategic thinker who, despite a healthy ego, opposed winning through intimidation. Rather than attending galas, this father of three prefers taking the 6:30 p.m. express home to White Plains, and he is an accomplished classical pianist who stashed a Steinway grand piano into a basement studio near his old office in order to squeeze a fugue into his spare moments.
 Mr. Bernstein shared his skeptics' concerns about the scale of the challenge.
 ''I thought long and hard before coming to Crow,'' he said recently from his 27th-story corner office on Madison Avenue near Grand Central Terminal. A gleaming Petrof upright piano -- he practices several mornings a week, before work, arriving at the office around 6 a.m. -- faces off against a looming view of the MetLife Building, which houses the New York headquarters of CB Richard Ellis. ''Could I build a platform and could I succeed, when clearly the cost of doing business and the threshold for success are higher than any city in the world?''
 Mr. Bernstein had been increasingly preoccupied by a tectonic shift in the tenant population. ''The number of tenants started to shrink,'' he said of the consolidations beginning in the 1980's among the bread-and-butter law firms, securities firms and accounting firms. ''Their numbers are incredibly small compared to 15 years ago.'' 
 To Mr. Bernstein, it was a leitmotif. A wave of consolidation among clothing retailers two decades earlier threatened the family apparel business that he had run since age 23, after his father's death. ''I've always tried to be an opportunist, including determining when to exit,'' said Mr. Bernstein of his decision to sell in 1986. 
 Long intrigued with real estate development and eager to remain an entrepreneur, he spent several years as a minor-league developer. Then another paradigm shift -- a broad investor retrenchment after the 1987 stock market crash -- pushed the pragmatic Mr. Bernstein to the service side, more insulated from the economy's vagaries. 
 As a broker, he enjoyed learning about clients' businesses, gaining their trust and developing programs to meet their objectives. But there was a darker aspect.
 ''If you had drive and creativity, you could earn a good living,'' he said. ''On the flip side, it was a very tough environment, a very competitive environment. My competition unquestionably came from within the very company I was working for.''
 He came to view big firms as too broker-centric. Organized into discrete business lines, they did not seem able to smoothly integrate a host of services -- including property management, project management and consulting -- that were increasingly demanded by ever-larger institutional clients.
 Last year, after a successful global push, Trammell Crow -- with its deep background in project and facilities management and a mandate to increase brokerage business -- hired Mr. Bernstein and gave him a war chest. Cherry-picking a handful of leaders in areas like project management, facilities management and investment sales, he increased the number of employees to 45. Next, he will be hiring more brokers, in numbers proportional to the other groups. 
 ''The culture at Crow was born around collaboration and integration'' among the different disciplines, he said. ''There are some things we can do in an unparalleled way as a boutique firm that are culturally a bigger challenge in a larger less-well-integrated firm. My accountability as area president runs across all disciplines.'' 
 (His fixation on parity and balance is reflected in the equilibrium he keeps among work, family and music. It's a short leap from his upbringing in a close-knit household in the comfortable suburb of Great Neck on Long Island, where he was encouraged to diversify his interests among sports, music and academics.) 
 Last December, Mr. Bernstein was instrumental in securing Trammell Crow's appointment to handle all real estate needs for the Chubb Corporation, which owns or leases 4.2 million square feet worldwide. At CB Richard Ellis, he had long shared the client with a counterpart at Cushman & Wakefield, and Mr. Bernstein's low-key but effective bedside manner helped win a subsequent beauty contest. 
 ''I just think that he is really a professional when it comes to this line of business, and he tries very hard to work with us and listen to what we need,'' said Baxter Graham, a senior vice president and managing director of corporate administrative services at Chubb. ''He's been a tough negotiator of our position on a number of occasions and saved us millions of dollars over 15 years.'' 
 John Krush, Trammell Crow's new senior vice president for project and development management, brought another significant chunk of business: development management for Bank of America in constructing its new headquarters, One Bryant Park, in Midtown Manhattan. Describing his boss as ''driven but he's not driven out of control,'' Mr. Krush added: ''His personality is very steady, and he is incredibly committed to making this office successful. His spirit jumps out at you, and it's very contagious.''
 But Mary Ann Tighe, Mr. Bernstein's former superior and CB Richard Ellis's top executive for the New York tristate region, contends that without a deep proprietary database, a boutique like Trammell Crow cannot deliver sophisticated services in transactions like leasing. 
 ''There is an illusion that negotiation is about charisma and personality,'' she said. ''With the institutionalizing of real estate, data is becoming so pivotal.'' Her firm's research team -- amassing proprietary information on tens of thousands of properties, tenants and leases -- brings critical leverage to the bargaining table, she said. With a staff of 30, her research department is as big as Trammell's entire New York office was when Mr. Bernstein arrived. 
 MR. BERNSTEIN maintains that his boutique has enough data, both proprietary and through third parties, and will gather more. More important, he said: ''Our formula is very different. At Crow, we're much more interested in developing a relationship with clients that have a portfolio with multiple locations that need transaction work on a routine basis, or sophisticated transactions that require integrated services, or freestanding project management on its own.'' 
 Much of Trammell Crow's $75 million annual tristate revenue comes from recurring annual fees, rather than single transactions, and is derived from business handling the local needs of clients in the larger Trammell network. In theory, this renewable bedrock will support the measured growth that Mr. Bernstein expects. 
 Indeed, farfrom gunning for the mountaintop, he seems to aim for the grassy plateau two-thirds of the way up --perfect for opportunistic raids on his competitors at the peak, and sheltered enough to conjure the focused calm of the Japanese garden he designed for his home in White Plains. 
 ''In robust economic times, growth and revenue at the larger platforms are likely to exceed the growth at Crow; but clearly, and here's the important point,'' he said, leaning forward: ''In the lean times, our revenue base is much less likely to correct than our competitors.''' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard I. Bernstein, New York area president of Trammell Crow, in his office near Grand Central Terminal. He arrives about 6 a.m. some days to practice the piano. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); LEGAL SERVICES (60%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO (72%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (72%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (72%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (72%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (72%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



342 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Geula Raivich, Joshua Solomon

 BODY:
Geula Raivich, the daughter of Mina and Roman Raivich of Vancouver, British Columbia, is to be married there today to Joshua Newman Solomon, the son of Linda N. Schapiro and Peter J. Solomon, both of Manhattan. Rabbi Yitzchak Wineberg will officiate at the Four Seasons Hotel. 
 The bride, 35, is a director in the investment banking division of Credit Suisse First Boston in Manhattan. She graduated with two degrees from the University of Michigan and received an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. Her father is the electrical foreman at the Triumf National Laboratory, Canada's laboratory for particle and nuclear physics, in Vancouver.
 The bridegroom, 37, was until June 30 the principal of Bronx Expeditionary Learning High School. He graduated from Harvard, where he also received an M.B.A. He is a candidate for a doctorate in education at Columbia. His mother is the director of fund-raising for the Dalton School in Manhattan. 
 His father is the founder and chairman of Peter J. Solomon Company, an investment bank in Manhattan. From 1978 to 1980, he was the deputy mayor of New York for economic development under Mayor Edward I. Koch. 
 The bridegroom is a stepson of Susan Solomon and of Donald Schapiro. His stepmother is a member of the board of Safe Horizon, a nonprofit program in Manhattan that supports victims of violence. His stepfather is a senior partner at Chadbourne & Parke, the law firm in Manhattan.
 The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Nicole Friedler Photography) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STEPPARENTS (87%); MARRIAGE (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); PHYSICS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



343 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: OFFICIALS' PITCH FOR DRUG PLAN MEETS SKEPTICS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: SCARBOROUGH, Me., July 15 

 BODY:
Four months before enrollment begins, the Bush administration has started a cross-country campaign to sell its most significant domestic policy initiative, the new Medicare drug benefit. But it is encountering skepticism from some consumers, whose participation is critical to the program's success. 
 In a stop here, four top Bush administration officials, including the surgeon general of the United States, said the drug benefit would be a boon to retirees, worth $1,300 a year to a typical recipient and much more to those with low incomes. 
 But the officials offered none of the details that would have allowed beneficiaries to judge for themselves. Crucial information, like the monthly premiums and the names of covered drugs, will not be available until mid-September. 
 After hearing federal officials praise the program for about 45 minutes, Joan M. Jenness, 72, of Bridgton, Me., said: ''I heard nothing I had not heard before. I still have lots of questions.''
 Everyone enrolled in Medicare is eligible for prescription drug coverage. But public opinion polls suggest that many people have not heard about the new benefit or do not understand it, and many have not decided whether to sign up for it. 
 The economics of the new program depend on the assumption that large numbers of relatively healthy people will enroll and pay premiums, to help defray the costs of those with high drug expenses. Insurers say the new program cannot survive if the only people who sign up are heavy users of prescription drugs. 
 That is why President Bush flew to Minnesota last month to open a national ''education and outreach'' tour, and why other officials have taken the message to Florida and South Carolina. 
 This week's bus tour rolled into Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Rhode Island with a twofold purpose: to educate consumers and to galvanize community groups, which are needed to help people enroll. The campaign is headed for Chicago, Milwaukee, Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio, next week. 
 On Tuesday, more than 30 organizations plan to announce a coordinated national effort, including a television advertising campaign, to disseminate information on the Medicare drug benefit. The organizations include AARP and groups representing doctors, pharmacists, insurance companies and people with chronic diseases.
 Federal officials face a huge task in trying to educate the 42 million Medicare enrollees about a drug benefit that differs radically from the traditional fee-for-service program. In this Portland suburb, that challenge was on display. 
 People who said they were healthy said they saw no immediate need to buy the Medicare drug coverage. People who said they were ill said the benefit seemed meager. And local insurance counselors said they shuddered at the complexity of the program.
 Officials arrived in a big blue bus painted with the message that people could sign up for the drug benefit on Nov. 15, for coverage beginning on Jan. 1. Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, explained why federal officials were here. 
 ''What matters most,'' Dr. McClellan said, ''is not what happens in Washington, but what happens all over the country as people make decisions about their health care and prescription drug coverage.''
 In deciding whether to sign up for the drug benefit, people will want to evaluate whether they will be getting their money's worth. That depends, in part, on how much they currently spend on drugs.
 Health policy specialists say the new benefit will generally be a good deal for low-income people, who are entitled to extra subsidies, and for people with drug costs exceeding $5,100 a year, since Medicare will pay about 95 percent of the cost of each prescription beyond that point. People who have solid drug coverage from other sources, like a former employer or the veterans' health program, may not see a need to sign up immediately for the Medicare drug benefit.
 Maine is a good state in which to sample public sentiment about the benefit. About 18 percent of residents, -- 239,000 of 1.3 million, are on Medicare. Concern about drug costs figures prominently in state politics. Because Maine is on the Canadian border, residents have ready access to information on drug prices in Canada. 
 In addition, Maine has been a leader in devising state programs to reduce drug costs. It defended one such program all the way to the United States Supreme Court.
 The event here was held at the Southern Maine Agency on Aging, a nonprofit organization that offers counseling and other services. Federal officials are counting on such agencies to help beneficiaries select drug plans.
 As he welcomed visiting officials on Wednesday, Laurence W. Gross, executive director of the agency, described the drug benefit as ''one of the most important changes in Medicare in 35 years.''
 But Mr. Gross has yet to persuade his mother, Lisette V. DeBruycker. ''I'm betwixt and between,'' said Ms. DeBruycker, 81. ''I don't take any medications aside from an occasional aspirin. What will the new program do for me?''
 Richard E. Robbins, 72, said he would probably sign up, although he uses only a few hundred dollars' worth of drugs in a year. ''It's a no-brainer,'' he said. ''The drug coverage is a safety net. We never know from day to day what our needs will be.'' 
 Many Democrats adamantly opposed the drug bill when Republicans pushed it through Congress in 2003. Democrats denounced the measure as a giveaway to drug companies and insurers. But Gov. John Baldacci of Maine, a Democrat, is working with the Bush administration to help people enroll.
 ''This is not the drug benefit we would have designed,'' said Jude E. Walsh, the governor's top adviser on pharmacy programs. ''But we have no choice. It's coming whether we want it or not. We are trying to make it work for vulnerable people in the state of Maine.''
 The officials who barnstormed through New England called themselves ''the four docs.'' Besides Dr. McClellan, those visiting were Surgeon General Richard H. Carmona; Julie L. Gerberding, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and Elias A. Zerhouni, director of the National Institutes of Health. 
 In establishing the drug benefit, Congress and Mr. Bush are trying to inject market forces into the traditional Medicare program.
 Under the law, Medicare will subsidize drug coverage offered by private insurers if it is at least as generous as a standard benefit defined by Congress. Private plans can charge different premiums and co-payments and will cover different drugs, creating a potentially confusing situation for beneficiaries.
 Carmela Decker, 74, of Portland, asked, ''Wouldn't it have been easier if Medicare had just established a prescription plan and said, 'We will pay 80 percent of the cost'?'' Medicare typically pays doctors 80 percent of the approved amount for treating Medicare patients.
 Mr. Bush and Congressional Republicans wanted to create a market in which insurers would compete for Medicare business by offering better benefits at lower prices. Maine officials said they expected 10 or 12 drug plans to be offered here.
 Estimates of enrollment nationwide are uncertain. In the Federal Register of Jan. 28, the Bush administration predicted that 39 million people would receive drug coverage in 2006 through a Medicare plan or an employer-sponsored health plan subsidized by Medicare. In June, Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, predicted that 28 million to 30 million people would receive such coverage.
 Carol S. Rancourt, coordinator of health insurance counseling at the Southern Maine Agency on Aging, said, ''My biggest fear is that people will be confused by the large number of options, will be shocked into inertia and will just do nothing.''
 Many people are automatically enrolled in Medicare when they turn 65, Ms. Rancourt said. But, she added, most beneficiaries must ''make an affirmative choice to enroll in the drug benefit.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, took questions on Tuesday from an audience in Maine, where federal officials were promoting the new Medicare drug benefit. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); SURGEON GENERAL (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (77%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (53%); DAYTON, OH, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (77%); MAINE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



344 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Designed to Save, Hybrids Burn Gas in Drive for Power

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16 

 BODY:
Mark Buford is happy with the Honda Accord hybrid that he bought six months ago, and he has already driven it 13,000 miles. He was determined to buy a hybrid electric car, he said, and this one is clean, ''green'' and accelerates faster than the nonhybrid version. He just cannot count on it to save much gasoline.
 Many people concerned with oil consumption, including President Bush and members of Congress, are pointing to hybrids -- vehicles with electric motors as well as internal combustion engines -- as a way to reduce fuel use and dependence on imported oil. The first ones to reach the market did that; the two-seat Honda Insight, introduced in December 1999, was rated at 70 miles per gallon, and it was followed by the five-seat Toyota Prius, also built for reduced fuel consumption. Those cars have no nonhybrid equivalents. Then came the Civic hybrid, designed to perform almost as well as the original, only using a lot less gasoline.
 But the pendulum has swung. The 2005 Honda Accord hybrid gets about the same miles per gallon as the basic four-cylinder model, according to a review by Consumer Reports, a car-buyer's guide, and it saves only about two miles a gallon compared with the V-6 model on which it is based. Thanks to the hybrid technology, though, it accelerates better. 
 Hybrid technology, it seems, is being used in much the same way as earlier under-the-hood innovations that increased gasoline efficiency: to satisfy the American appetite for acceleration and bulk.
 Despite the use of hybrids to achieve better performance with about the same fuel economy, consumers who buy the cars continue to get a tax credit that the Internal Revenue Service allows under a ''clean fuels'' program that does not take fuel savings into account.
 And the image of hybrids as fuel-stingy workhorses persists. In a June 15 speech at an energy forum, Mr. Bush proposed a tax credit of up to $4,000 to ''encourage people to make right choices in the marketplace that will make us less dependent on foreign sources of oil and to help improve our environment.''
 But some hybrids save hardly any fuel, energy efficiency advocates say. ''The new ones are all being used for power,'' said Kateri Callahan, the president of the Alliance to Save Energy, a nonprofit advocacy group based here. 
 Hybrids should be encouraged, Ms. Callahan said, because their electric components some day could be useful in an all-electric car, perhaps running on a fuel cell. But she added that the government should be careful about which hybrids it subsidizes through tax benefits. Now, she said, the car companies are ''building to the high-end market. They think people want performance.''
 The companies may have sized up their customers pretty well. Mr. Buford, for example, bought his Accord hybrid in January, a month after the model came out, replacing a 2001 Accord coupe. 
 Mr. Buford, a telecommunications analyst at Kraft Foods who works in the Chicago area, said he decided on a hybrid because he wanted to ''go green,'' although he added, ''I wasn't willing to make any of the trade-offs normally associated with a hybrid.'' He said he liked the way that the electric motor on his new car kicked in early during acceleration, at a speed range in which the V-6 gasoline engine is relatively weak. And its emissions of smog-forming pollutants are low, he said. (The Environmental Protection Agency puts the hybrid and nonhybrid Accords in the same emissions category).
 If sold at list price, the hybrid costs about $3,300 more than the V-6 with no hybrid. Mr. Buford said he was not sure if the gas savings would ever pay for the difference. But in that price range -- about $30,000 -- many buyers are not looking for a car that is the cheapest to buy or to operate. 
 Mr. Buford said he expected that when he files his taxes next April, the purchase will cut his tax bill by about $600. The tax credit will begin to be phased out in 2006. 
 The Accord hybrid is not alone in using technology for power; the Toyota Highlander and the Lexus RX330, two premium vehicles, both gained horsepower when they were produced as hybrids. When Lexus created a hybrid version of the RX330 it kept the same 3.3-liter engine, but to get across the idea that the hybrid had as much power as a vehicle with a 4-liter engine it named it the RX400h.
 In the Accord, the mechanism was simple. Honda took the model with the 3.0-liter V-6 engine, which generates 240 horsepower, and added a 16-horsepower electric system. That is in contrast to the Civic, in which Honda pulled out the standard 1.7-liter engine and replaced it with a 1.3-liter engine when it made a hybrid version of the car. Combined with the electric drive, the car's horsepower remained roughly constant.
 Consumer Reports called the hybrid portion of the Accord a ''green turbocharger.'' The main benefit is in getting from zero to 60 miles per hour in 6.9 seconds, compared with 9.0 seconds for the basic four-cylinder model.
 A Honda spokesman, Andrew Boyd, said the company already had hybrids that minimize fuel use, notably the Insight, for customers whose top priority was to save gasoline, and the Civic for customers who wanted a car that performs the same but uses less fuel. Performance in the Civic hybrid is slightly lower than the original model, Mr. Boyd said, and as a result it gets 36 miles per gallon instead of 29.
 Mr. Boyd said the Accord split the benefit between fuel economy and performance. He did not describe its selling point as the ability to save gas, but ''the appeal of a hybrid.'' 
 ''The closer you get to the mainstream buyer, fuel economy is still part of the equation, but a smaller part,'' he said. ''In the Accord, people will pay all kinds of money for more performance. We can deliver that performance, but in addition, with better fuel economy.''
 Hybrid technology seems to be heading the way of earlier technologies, which got more work out of a gallon of gasoline, like four valves per cylinder and variable valve timing, that have been used in the end to make cars accelerate faster, rather than to hold them steady in performance and to cut fuel consumption.
 Daniel A. Lashof, a car expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said, ''The horsepower wars have really gotten out of control in the last few years.'' 
 Acceleration is one indication of horsepower. According to the E.P.A., the average new vehicle accelerates from zero to 60 m.p.h. in under 10 seconds, down from 14 seconds in the early 1980's. The average weight has increased by about 750 pounds in the same period. If cars in the 2004 model year had the same weight and acceleration as cars did in 1987, according to the agency, they would get 20 percent better gas mileage. 
 Consumer Reports, in an article published in May, found that in actual on-the-road conditions the Accord hybrid averaged 25 m.p.g., versus 24 m.p.g. for the 4-cylinder model and 23 m.p.g. for the nonhybrid V-6. The E.P.A. figures show a larger benefit for the hybrid, but the agency's fuel economy figures are considered by many to be inaccurate because they do not reflect the way cars are actually driven. 
 The two-miles-per-gallon increase over the V-6, about 8 percent, is still significant, and federal tax rules, which are based on cost and not mileage benefit achieved, still give an Accord hybrid buyer a substantial subsidy. But 8 percent is not in the range that would make a substantial dent in American oil consumption.
 Mr. Buford said he got just what he wanted from the Accord, a hybrid with no sacrifices. ''I wasn't prepared to give up anything to 'go green' -- not performance, amenities, or space,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about gas usage by hybrid cars misstated the type of tax subsidy currently available to people who buy hybrids. It is a tax deduction, allowed under the Internal Revenue Service's ''Clean Fuels'' program, not a tax credit. (President Bush has proposed that hybrid buyers be given a tax credit of up to $4,000.)


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Buford with his Honda Accord hybrid last week in Bannockburn, Ill. He said that he can now ''go green'' without sacrificing performance. (Photo by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times)Chart: ''Hybridizing for Performance''The Honda Accord hybrid uses an electric motor and the same V-6 gasoline engine as the standard Accord, resulting in quicker acceleration and only moderately better gas mileage. The hybrid version of the Honda Civic has a smaller gasoline engine than the all-gasoline model, resulting in lower performance but significantly better mileage.VEHICLE: Accord EX (4-cyl.)HORSEPOWERGAS: 160ELECTRICTOTAL: 160ACCELERATION 0-60 M.P.H.: 9.0 secondsOVERALL MILEAGE M.P.G.: 24Accord EX (V-6)VEHICLE:HORSEPOWERGAS: 240ELECTRICTOTAL: 240ACCELERATION 0-60 M.P.H.: 7.4OVERALL MILEAGE M.P.G.: 23VEHICLE: Accord HybridHORSEPOWERGAS: 240ELECTRIC: 16TOTAL: 255ACCELERATION 0-60 M.P.H.: 6.9OVERALL MILEAGE M.P.G.: 25*VEHICLE: CivicHORSEPOWERGAS: 115ELECTRICTOTAL: 115ACCELERATION 0-60 M.P.H.: 10.5OVERALL MILEAGE M.P.G.: 29VEHICLE: Civic HybridHORSEPOWERGAS: 85ELECTRIC: 13.4TOTAL: 93*ACCELERATION 0-60 M.P.H.: 13.4OVERALL MILEAGE M.P.G.: 36All figures are for vehicles with automatic or continuously variable transmission.*Totals do not add up because gasoline engines and electric motors reach their peak power at different speeds.(Sources by Honda
 Consumer Reports [acceleration and mileage])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (63%); TAX AUTHORITIES (63%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Fuel Efficiency; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



345 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: India to Seek Expanded Access to U.S. Nuclear Technology

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, July 16 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Friday that persuading the United States to share more of its nuclear technology would be a priority in his meeting next week with President Bush, and said he hoped the two countries would move from being ''estranged'' to ''engaged'' on issues of mutual interest.
 ''It's much too presumptuous on my part to say that I can predict the outcome, but I am looking forward, with hope, that out of this visit we will have a stronger, more durable, more productive relationship with the United States,'' he said in an interview. ''People have described in the past our two countries' relations as two estranged democracies,'' Dr. Singh said. ''I would like to work towards a new era where our two democracies are engaged.'' 
 After India's independence from Britain in 1947, the politics of the cold war era infused India-United States relations with mutual distrust. Change came slowly, with the opening up of India's economy in 1991 -- Dr. Singh, an Oxford-educated economist and the finance minister at the time, was its chief architect -- and relations fell to a new low in 1998, when India conducted nuclear tests. 
 India, which is not a party to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, has been clamoring for fuel and technology. United States law bars export of technology that could aid a nuclear program to any country that has not signed the treaty.
 Dr. Singh said he was encouraged by previous meetings with Mr. Bush on nuclear technology. ''The president himself has mentioned to me a country like India needs to be helped to reach its full potential in the area of nuclear energy,'' he said. 
 Relations between the countries warmed considerably after Sept. 11, 2001, with joint warfare exercises and Washington's offer of fighter planes for the Indian Air Force. A defense pact signed in June promised joint weapons production and multinational peacekeeping operations. 
 The United States is India's largest trading partner, and Washington has welcomed India's new patent law restricting production of low-cost Indian-made generic drugs and an ''open skies'' agreement intended to draw American airline companies to a booming Indian market. 
 In a telling snapshot of Indian perceptions, a survey commissioned by the Pew Global Attitudes Project in June found that Indians were singular in the world for having a positive view of United States policy. 
 Indian officials have been eager in recent weeks to emphasize what they refer to as a ''convergence of interests'' between New Delhi and Washington: a common stance against terrorism, a shared interest in the opportunities of a booming Indian economy, the need to stabilize global oil prices and, increasingly, what one senior official called ''the affinities we have as democracies.'' 
 In the wide-ranging half-hour interview on Friday in his official residence, the prime minister hit the same notes. Offering an implicit contrast to China, he described India as a unique social experiment based on ''an open society and an open economy,'' and dismissed the idea that India could be used as a bulwark against its ever-mightier neighbor. 
 ''I think a strong India is in the interests of Asia and I think in the interests of the world, but that doesn't mean we are in competition with China,'' Dr. Singh said. ''I don't think our relationship with the United States is at the cost of our relationships with China, with Russia or, for that matter, the E.U.''
 Dr. Singh, 72, a soft-spoken farmer's son, pointed out -- as he has to in a country where members of his own government harbor reservations about an alliance with the United States -- that India would not sacrifice its policy of independence. 
 ''We are an independent power, we are not a client state, we are not a supplicant,'' Dr. Singh said. ''As two equal societies, we should explore together where there is convergence of interests and work together.'' 
 Indeed, the discussions about Dr. Singh's visit to Washington have started a furious debate here. As relations between the world's oldest democracy and its largest grow warmer, Indian politicians, intellectuals and policy makers ask: what does it mean to be a friend of America? 
 ''The challenge of India is to have a close alliance with the U.S. without becoming a poodle,'' said Jairam Ramesh, a member of Parliament with the ruling Congress Party. ''It's a very delicate thing. There is simply no alternative to building a close alliance with the United States.'' 
 Discussions of India-United States ties are still colored with distrust. 
 The leftist parties that belong to Dr. Singh's coalition government have criticized the new defense pact as a threat to India's credibility. 
 Skeptics have wondered aloud whether India will get the high-technology help it wants. Others worry whether linking arms with the United States could subject a country painfully familiar with terrorism to a new round of political violence, or at least, sour its relations with countries in the Muslim world.
 India's aspirations for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, meanwhile, took a blow this week when the United States rejected a proposal to enlarge it to include India, Japan, Germany, Brazil and two unidentified African states as permanent members. Dr. Singh did not say he would raise the Security Council issue with Mr. Bush. 
 Proponents of the new India-United States amity see long-term advantages for India. 
 ''If America is supportive of Indian aspirations, it facilitates it,'' said Uday Bhaskar of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses here. ''India is concerned about what price it is going to pay. 
 ''At the moment that has not been defined adequately. That's the anxiety: what's the pound of flesh?''
 Pratap Bhanu Mehta, a political analyst, read in the United States-India camaraderie a larger message about India's idea of itself. ''We've learned to project power,'' he argued. ''A crucial element of being able to project that power is to say we can deal with the United States, we are so confident nothing of our core self-interests will be compromised. I actually think it's foolhardy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PATENTS (73%); AIR FORCES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); TERRORISM (67%); PATENT LAW (64%); GENERIC DRUGS (64%); AIRLINES (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (61%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Electric Light and Power; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Atomic Energy; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Somini Sengupta; Manmohan (Prime Min) Singh; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) India

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



346 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 4446 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Lessons 

BYLINE: By Michael Ignatieff. 
Michael Ignatieff, a contributing writer, teaches about human rights at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. He is the editor of ''American Exceptionalism and Human Rights,'' just published by Princeton University Press.

 BODY:
[I]
In south Tehran there is a huge walled cemetery dedicated to the martyrs, the young men who died fighting in the 1979 revolution and the Iran-Iraq war of 1980-1988. This vast city of the dead, complete with its own subway station and shops, does not share Arlington National Cemetery's sublimely stoic aesthetic of identical tombstones, row upon row. In Tehran's war cemetery, each of the fallen is remembered individually with his own martyr's shrine, a sealed glass cabinet on a stand. The cabinets are filled with faded photos of men forever young, some in helmets or red bandannas, some carrying their weapons, others at home stroking the family cat or grinning during a meal with friends. Next to the yellowing photographs might be a Koran, or a faded copy of a Persian poem, or a set of plastic flowers, or one of the painted eggs that Iranian families exchange at their New Year. These little shrines seem to go on forever, each one a family's attempt to confer immortality on some young man who died in the trenches at a place like Khorramshahr, the pinnacle of Iranian resistance to the Iraqi invaders.
 More than a million Iranians served in the war with Iraq. Three hundred thousand died and a larger number came home wounded. Although the conflict ended in stalemate and disillusion, it remains the Iranian revolution's defining moment of sacrifice. Accordingly, the regime still exploits the martyrs' sacrifices at every traffic roundabout in the country, with enormous posters of the bearded, unsmiling, very young men in uniform, heading off to battle and divine reward.
 The religion of Iran, Shiite Islam, is a martyr's faith. Shiite culture has aspects of a death cult, including an obsession with blood sacrifice. For some surviving veterans, the camaraderie they experienced on the Iraqi front epitomized not only the patriotic virtues of the revolution but also the self-sacrificing virtues of their faith. Any American neoconservative betting on the Iranian regime to crumble under the impact of isolation, blockade, sanctions or foreign condemnation ought to pay a visit to the martyrs' cemetery. Revolutionary regimes anchored in faith and blood sacrifice have good reason to believe they are impervious to outside pressure.
 I visited the cemetery of the martyrs late last month, during a trip to Iran to lecture on human rights, mostly to reform-minded students and intellectuals. My arrival fell between rounds of the country's presidential election. In the first round of voting, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad -- the son of an ironworker, a former Revolutionary Guard during the war with Iraq and, briefly, the appointed mayor of Tehran -- had come from nowhere to win about 20 percent of the vote. The former Iranian president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the supposedly reformist candidate, was struggling to hold off Ahmadinejad's challenge in the second round. Ahmadinejad is an authoritarian populist with a base of support among the poor in the shantytowns and warrens of south Tehran. Unlike Rafsanjani, he is not a mullah, and he served in the war. This gave him access to the war veterans and the Basiji, the paramilitary popular militias created during the war, and he was using them to get out the vote in the poorest neighborhoods of south Tehran. He promised the poor justice, but most of all he promised the veterans rewards for their sacrifice. Immediately labeled a hard-liner by most American commentators, Ahmadinejad sent out more populist, inclusive signals at home, leading some Iranians to worry that quick American condemnations of him as a reactionary might only provoke him into becoming one.
 At the beginning of the week that I arrived, there were few Ahmadinejad posters around Tehran for the presidential runoff. Thanks to the veterans, by the eve of the final vote, banners and posters were displayed everywhere. At night, cars would grind to a halt while Ahmadinejad supporters, with his picture plastered on their foreheads, danced around the traffic circles. In the end, Ahmadinejad easily defeated Rafsanjani in the runoff election, winning with about 60 percent of the vote. It was a victory so unexpected that some were already calling it the second Iranian revolution.

[II]
Ahmadinejad had capitalized not only on his war service but also on gathering disillusion with the failure of the reformers -- nominally in power since the election of President Mohammad Khatami in 1997 -- to address popular grievances relating to jobs, housing, transport and, above all, the growing class divide. In leafy north Tehran, reformers were talking about human rights and democracy, while in dusty south Tehran, the poor were struggling to hold onto jobs in an economy in which unemployment was officially 15 percent and probably twice that. For the reformers, the victory brought home how out of touch with ordinary Iranians many of them had become.
 ''That was our chief mistake,'' Amir Hossein Barmaki, a middle-class Tehrani who now works for the United Nations in the city, told me. ''The reformers -- Khatami and Rafsanjani -- came to power after the war and they did nothing for the veterans. These boys from the poor districts came home, having saved the country, and we did nothing for them. There were some who are dying of Saddam's poison gas attacks who didn't even get a pension.''
 ''No,'' he went on. ''There was worse. None of us actually went to the war. All the middle class went abroad or stayed in university. We sent the poor instead. We could even buy our way out of military service. It is our shame.''
 On the nights after Ahmadinejad's victory, the atmosphere among many of the liberal Iranians I talked with was reminiscent of another group of intellectuals: the Russian thinkers of the 1860's, Western-educated men and women who had to discover, painfully, just how out of touch their reformist ideas were with the poor and burdened of their own society. Barmaki told me mournfully, ''We reformers have lost five years.''
 The political task ahead for the liberal thinkers of Iran is to find a program that links human rights and democracy to the poor's economic grievances.

[III]
I had been invited to lecture on human rights and democracy, but Ahmadinejad's unexpected victory changed the agenda of my talks. Suddenly the question was no longer, What do democracy and human rights mean in an Islamic society? but, Can democracy and human rights make any headway at all in a society deeply divided between rich and poor, included and excluded, educated and uneducated? The reformers had promoted human rights and democracy as a panacea for Iran's poor, and what had been the result? The slums of Tehran voted for a man who advocated stricter discipline for women, tougher theocratic rule and state control of the economy.
 I was invited not by the mullah-dominated universities but by the Cultural Research Bureau, an independent center in Tehran that publishes books and runs its own gift shop, gallery and lecture hall. My Iranian host, Ramin Jahanbegloo, works in a tiny shared office at the bureau, inviting foreign guests and building up a small circle of free-minded students whom he lectures on European thought. He and I had never met, but he has published a book of conversations he had as a student with Isaiah Berlin, the Oxford philosopher of liberalism, and I have written a biography of Berlin. We are Berliners.
 Berlin himself visited Tehran in the late 1970's, during the dying years of the shah's regime. He gave a lecture -- ''On the Rise of Cultural Pluralism'' -- in front of the empress, who, as Berlin later recounted, fidgeted irritably and then made a sign to a courtier to get Berlin to cut it short. In midlecture, Berlin sat down, he told a friend, ''as if stung by several wasps.'' All in all it was not a happy visit. The shah's Iran, he decided, was the last czarist regime on earth. Propped up by the Americans and kept in power by a hated secret police, the shah launched a White Revolution in the 1960's, a grandiose modernization program that alienated mullahs, merchants and students alike. Eventually, street demonstrations forced him to abdicate, and he fled into exile in 1979. After that came the Shiite revolution, led by Ayatollah Khomeini. Since then, hundreds of thousands of Iranians have gone into exile, and the liberal intelligentsia that remains is both cut off from the mass of the Iranian population and isolated from the Western universities from which it draws its inspiration.
 Jahanbegloo says he thinks of himself as a bridge between Iran and those universities. He invites a steady stream of philosophers like Richard Rorty from Stanford and Agnes Heller from the New School in New York to give talks to students. He sees some signs that their ideas are finding a toehold in Tehran. Three decades ago, the intellectuels du jour were Michel Foucault and fellow radical theorists. They arrived in Tehran proclaiming their solidarity with a revolution that actively despised them while persecuting its own freethinkers. Now the pendulum in Tehran has swung toward pragmatic liberals like Berlin.
 Upon arrival, I was immediately plunged into the kinds of discussions about democracy and freedom that took place in Prague, Warsaw and Budapest in the 1980's. On my first day, young journalists at a reform-minded newspaper called Shargh quizzed me about the difference between ''maximal'' and ''minimal'' democracy. Maximal democracy means elections plus rule of law, bills of rights and checks and balances. That is decades away in Iran. Minimal democracy is what they already have: guided rule by the mullahs that may deliver the country straight to tyranny under Ahmadinejad.
 It became apparent that what I should have been teaching during my visit was the history of the Protestant Reformation. It's not just that Islam badly needs a Reformation. It's also that Iranians need to know how the Reformation and the bloody religious wars that followed it taught the West to put God in his place. Democracy arises, I told the students, not just to enthrone the people but also to separate religion and politics, establishing rules of tolerance that allow all religions to enjoy freedom and creating a political system in which religious and secular arguments compete on equal ground.
 Many young Iranians I talked to were so hostile to clerical rule that I found myself cautioning them against going too far in the other direction. Many seemed in favor of a secular republicanism in which religion was excluded from politics altogether, as it was in Turkey during the rule of that country's modernizing dictator, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. As Isaiah Berlin warned, however, if you bend the twig too far, it will snap back in your face. In Turkey, the reaction against the extremes of Ataturk's secularism has brought an Islamic government, though admittedly a moderate one, to power. Secularism, I argued, doesn't mean crushing religion, it just means creating a neutral space in which arguments between religious and secular people are settled by evidence, not dogma.
 ''Like in the United States?'' a bright female student asked me with a coy smile. In the United States, I said, God is never out of the public sphere. The furor over the end of Terri Schiavo's life and the Bush administration's restrictions on federal financing for stem cell research, among other things, make that obvious. From their vantage point inside a theocracy, young Iranians long for ''a wall of separation'' between religion and government, as Thomas Jefferson called it, and they told me they found it puzzling, even disappointing, that religion and politics are not actually separate in the United States. I tried to explain that keeping God in his place in a democracy is work that never ends.
 Democracy in Iran also means working free of what one student called ''the culture of dictatorship,'' a floating web of patriarchal controls over private life. All of the young people I talked to were under 30, invariably were living at home till marriage and were chafing under restrictions on their personal lives. For young women, living free means the right to choose whom you marry and how much hair to display around your hijab; it means leaving to get an M.B.A. in Australia and then coming back and running a business. For one young man, struggling to find how he might buy his way out of compulsory military service, it means the freedom, he confessed in a whisper, to be gay. Homosexuality is a crime in Iran, and seemingly the only time when conversations do become furtive, with anxious looks over shoulders, is when homosexuality is the topic.
 The hostility toward homosexuality is not just a reflex of a deeply traditional family culture. The Shiite regime has waged a 26-year war on pleasures both homosexual and heterosexual. In Persian culture, however, the taste for pleasure runs deep. Just think of the music-making, dancing and the costumed beauty of the men and women in classical Persian miniatures. During the revolution, many of these Persian treasures were hacked off the walls of mosques and palaces by Shiite zealots.
 Thankfully, Persian pleasure remains stubbornly alive. When I flew south from Tehran to Isfahan, the astounding capital of the Safavid shahs of the 17th century, I spent one night wandering along the exquisitely lighted vaulted bridges, watching men, not necessarily gay, stroll hand in hand, singing to each other and dancing beneath the arches, while families picnicked on the grass by the banks of the river and men and women passed a water pipe around. Though it cannot be much comfort to those who have to live, here and now, under public and private tyrannies, I came away from a night in Isfahan believing that Persian pleasure, in the long run, would outlast Shiite puritanism.

[IV]
Like all revolutionary regimes, the Iranian state seems to have reproduced the ugliness of the regime it overthrew. The shah had a secret police -- Savak -- and the mullahs have one, too. One day in Tehran, on a street corner, I passed a small student demonstration linked to the elections and watched as a sweaty secret-police officer, with a gun in his waistband, tried to muscle a demonstrator away into a car. Other demonstrators started punching the officer, and he had to call for reinforcements. While he did so, the seized student wriggled free and disappeared into the crowd.
 In a more genuinely fearful police state, he would have gone quietly. On the other hand, when this regime wants to crush the opposition, it does so with unflinching ruthlessness. Some religious minorities -- like the Armenian Christians -- are not persecuted, but others, like the Bahais -- a schismatic sect of Islam -- have been barred from the universities, and their leaders have been arrested, tortured and, in some cases, killed. Iranian human rights lawyers told me that they defend as many political prisoners as they can, but there are hundreds more held incommunicado. Some go into the prisons and never emerge alive. In June 2003, Zahra Kazemi, an Iranian holding a Canadian passport, was taking photographs outside the notorious Evin prison in Tehran when she was arrested and dragged inside. Three weeks later, the authorities announced that she had died under interrogation, and soon after that, evidence came out indicating that she had been tortured and raped. The Canadian government is demanding that those responsible be punished or dismissed, but a case in an Iranian court seems to be going nowhere.
 Shirin Ebadi, the lawyer handling the Kazemi case and the regime's most visible opponent, is a heroic figure, a physically tiny dynamo, bursting with scorn for the regime and quick to shed her hijab in private houses as a sign of her independence. She walks a careful line, distancing herself from the Bush administration's criticism of the presidential elections, but remaining equally dismissive of the regime's claims that its guided democracy remains a democracy nonetheless. Having done time for political offenses herself, she knows the insides of the prisons where her clients now languish. The outgoing president, the supposed reformer Khatami, notably failed to lend Ebadi political cover and support when she came back from Oslo with the Nobel Peace Prize, the first ever Nobel given to an Iranian. When I asked her whether the prize and the recognition it brought protect her, she replied with a quizzical arch of an eyebrow: ''No, the Nobel does not protect me at all.''

[V]
At Shahid Beheshti University, I gave a seminar on human rights to a class composed mostly of young women in full-length black robes and head coverings. When I went up to shake their hands before the session started, they pulled their hands away. Such contact between the sexes is frowned upon. But in class, they were anything but docile. In often fluent English, they asked what I thought about Islamic Shariah law and its punishments, which can include stoning women to death for adultery. The challenge, I argued, is not understanding why these are wrong but prevailing politically against the religious authorities who believe that their own power depends on enforcing these penalties. The students replied that they needed help from Western intellectuals like me to get rid of Islamic punishments. I replied that while outside pressure can help, Western human rights advocacy can often have counterproductive results. In Nigeria, for example, an international letter-writing campaign organized by human rights advocates did not persuade an Islamic governor in northern Nigeria to halt the flogging of a teenage girl for having sex (she says she was raped) -- and the campaign might even have persuaded him to proceed, if reports are to be believed. On the other hand, a group of female Islamic lawyers worked within the Shariah system to defend another Nigerian woman who had been sentenced to stoning for adultery, securing her acquittal on a technicality (which drew criticism from some Western human rights advocates).
 The women in the class were not happy with my suggestion that they should reform Shariah from within. ''There should be one law for everybody, not two systems, one of Islamic law and the other of secular law,'' one student argued. I agree, I said, but it's not obvious how you are going to get there in Iran. The students found this too defeatist. ''We are very glad that you come to our class, professor,'' one said to me, ''but you are too nice to the Shariah law. It must be abolished. It cannot be changed.''
 One professor observing these exchanges was a middle-aged man in the light brown robes and white turban that designate a religious scholar. Having listened carefully, with his long legs stretched out beneath the desk, he asked me -- in fluent English -- why I thought human rights were universal. I gave the answer I use in my class at Harvard -- that if I were to go up to him, right now, and smack him across the face, anywhere in the world the act would count as an injustice and an insult. Human rights law codifies our agreement about stopping these intuitively obvious injustices.
 But why, he pressed further, would an injustice against him also be perceived by me as an injustice? Because, I replied, human beings are not closed compartments. We can imagine what it would be like to be at the receiving end of the very blows we strike.
 ''You are an intuitionist,'' he said with a smile. I countered that the human capacity to understand the pain of others is a fact, not an intuition. ''But you need something stronger than this,'' he said. We continued for a while, agreeably disagreeing, but as he gathered up his papers to depart, he was smiling like someone who thought he had just won an argument. As far as he was concerned, beneath his belief in human rights lies the bedrock of the Koran, while beneath mine lies nothing but hopeful instincts.

[VI]
One day, I paid a call on Saeed Semnanian, the chancellor of one of Tehran's most conservative universities. We sat in his spartan office, while female engineering students walked to and fro in the gardens outside his window. I began with compliments about the achievements of the revolution. Female literacy has risen to 70 percent (though male literacy is still higher, at 84 percent), while income per head has doubled since the end of the war with Iraq. But, I went on, everyone I talked to in Tehran told me the revolution has congealed into a corrupt, repressive system of privileges that exploits Islamic orthodoxy to remain in power.
 ''Whom do you talk to?'' he asked me with a level stare.
 ''Intellectuals, writers, journalists.''
 ''You are trying to take the temperature of the revolution, but all your thermometers are wrong,'' he responded.
 All this complaining, he implied, is what you would expect from discontented liberals. The achievement that matters, he said, is that Iran is independent. In the presidential elections, all the candidates were pure Iranian. In the shah's time, nothing was pure Iranian. Everything was decided in the American or the British Embassy. 
 He seemed faintly amused by my failure to understand his country. For him, the history of Iran is the history of attempts to subvert its independence. As far as he is concerned, it might be yesterday, and not in 1953, that Kermit Roosevelt and the C.I.A. organized the coup that overthrew Mohammed Mossadegh, the prime minister who nationalized the Iranian oil fields. The seizure of the American Embassy and the hostage drama were, as Semnanian saw it, an exquisitely drawn out revenge for the C.I.A.-inspired coup, just as the regime's current drive for nuclear weapons is a search for an ultimate guarantee of its freedom from foreign interference.
 Iranian democrats contend that if Iran were a democracy, its nuclear weapons would not threaten anyone. What makes Iranian weapons dangerous, they argue, is that the regime is a theocracy with connections to Hamas and Hezbollah. A democratic Iran that broke with terrorism would be easier to live with, even if it possessed a nuclear bomb. As Shirin Ebadi told me, ''Who cares about France's force de frappe?''
 American neoconservatives also tend to argue that democracy will make Iran peaceful and pro-American. This might be wishful thinking. Fear of encirclement by the United States means that the regime's drive for weapons has widespread popular support. If a genuine Iranian democracy were as nationalistic as most new democracies usually are, a democratic Iran might well remain a bellicose opponent of the United States and Israel. 
 In any event, America has almost no capacity to promote democracy inside Iran, and some capacity to do harm to Iranian democrats. Every Iranian I met wanted to spend time in the United States -- and wished there were more scholarships to take them to America -- but nearly every one of them laughed when I mentioned the recent Congressional appropriation of $3 million to support democratic opposition groups inside and outside the country. Iranian democrats look on American good intentions with incredulity. It would be fatal for any of them to accept American dollars. ''Do they want to get us all arrested as spies?'' one said to me. 
 Hence the paradox: the Middle Eastern Muslim society with the most pro-American democrats will strenuously resist any American attempt to promote democracy inside it. It is easy to understand why. ''We fought for our independence,'' Semnanian told me. ''You think when our people fought to drive out the invaders from Iraq for seven years, we were fighting only Saddam? We were fighting the U.S.A., Britain, the whole world. We saved our country. And now we are free.''

[VII]
The night before I left Tehran, I had a private conversation about Ahmadinejad's political program with one of the new president's advisers, A. Asgarkhani, a genial, long-haired professor in his 60's. When Asgarkhani, who holds a Western doctorate, first began predicting victory for his candidate a month ago, nobody believed him. Even a week before the runoff, nobody took him seriously. Now it had happened.
 The good thing about Ahmadinejad's victory, Asgarkhani said, is that it will end the paralysis of the regime, the division between the reformers and the religious guardians who control the political system. All power will finally be in one set of hands. So the president can do something.
 But won't that be bad for human rights? I asked.
 Maybe at first, he replied, but then Ahmadinejad will bring human rights and democracy -- here he gestured with his hands -- ''from the top down.''
 And how is Ahmadinejad going to change the economy? ''If he listens to me,'' Asgarkhani said, ''he is going to go with 'techno-nationalism.' ''
 Techno-nationalism, import substitution, new growth theory -- all the catch phrases of Western development economics tumbled out of Asgarkhani's mouth, but they still sounded like the Islamic Marxism that has passed for economic theory in Iran since the revolution: don't depend on foreigners; keep the economy in state hands, otherwise foreign capitalists will get control of it; restrain the financial sector, because a free financial sector will cause the economy to melt down.
 With oil at about $60 a barrel as I write, there is little likelihood that the regime will be forced to open up and reform the economy. But unless it does, there won't be much democracy or progress for the poor. One human rights truth, universally acknowledged, is that oil is an obstacle to democracy in every developing society. When a government can get what it needs out of oil derricks and ceases to derive its revenue from taxes, it loses any incentive to respond to the people. Theocracy in Iran is built on oil and will endure as long as the oil price holds up.
 One young female Iranian economics major had told me wearily that she wondered why she bothered to study macroeconomics at all, since, in Iran, all economic decisions are made politically. The incoming president has promised the desperately poor the better life the revolution was supposed to deliver. What happens if all that the poor get are programs and policies like Asgarkhani's voodoo economics? Then all that will be left is the iron fist. 
 When I said this to another young Iranian woman and told her that when Ahmadinejad fails the poor, the only recourse left will be further repression, she said, determinedly: ''No, he cannot turn back the clock. He cannot send us backward.'' I hoped she was right, but I noticed that she made a small involuntary gesture. She pulled her hijab down and covered her hair entirely. For the first time, she looked uncertain and concerned. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Young Iranian men pass the time outside a mall in Tehran. There is much speculation that under President-elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a conservative former mayor of Tehran, recent freedoms will be curtailed.
Shirin Ebadi, a human rights lawyer, says her 2003 Nobel Peace Prize does not make her feel safe in Iran.
 Young Iranian women find creative ways to adhere to hijab laws. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMETERIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); CULTS & SECTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); DEATHS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); CATS (69%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (68%); TRENDS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); POLITICS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Islam; Elections

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (57%) Michael Ignatieff; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (91%) Iran; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



347 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: A Sucker Bet

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PYONGYANG, North Korea 

 BODY:
Every single home in this country has two portraits on the wall, one of the Great Leader, Kim Il Sung, who is still president even though he died 11 years ago, and one of his son, the Dear Leader, Kim Jong Il. Inspectors regularly visit homes to make sure the portraits are well cared for.
 Every subway car carries those same two portraits as well, and every adult wears a button depicting the Great Leader. And every home (or village, in rural areas) has an audio speaker, which starts broadcasting propaganda at 6 each morning to tell people how lucky they are. 
 Children spend long hours in day care centers from the age of 6 months, sometimes returning to their parents only on weekends. Men normally perform seven or more years of military service. Disabled people are sometimes expelled from Pyongyang, a green and well-groomed capital that is one of the prettiest in Asia, because they are considered unsightly.
 And although the national ideology is juche, or self-reliance, the U.N. World Food Program feeds 6.5 million North Koreans, almost one-third of the population. Even so, hunger is widespread and has left 37 percent of the children stunted. 
 Yet North Korea focuses its resources on prestige projects, like an amazing 10-lane highway to Nampo (with no traffic).
 Many conservatives in and out of the Bush administration assume that North Korea's population must be seething and that the regime must be on its last legs. Indeed, the Bush administration's policy on North Korea, to the extent that it has one, seems to be to wait for it to collapse.
 I'm afraid that could be a long, long wait. The central paradox of North Korea is this: No government in the world today is more brutal or has failed its people more abjectly, yet it appears to be in solid control and may even have substantial popular support.
 From a brief visit like mine, it's hard to gauge the mood, because anyone who criticizes the government risks immediate arrest. But Chinese and other foreigners I've spoken to who live in North Korea or visit regularly say they believe that most North Koreans buy into the system, just as ordinary Chinese did during the Maoist period.
 Likewise, over the years I've interviewed dozens of North Koreans who have fled to China or South Korea, and they overwhelmingly say that while they personally dislike the regime -- that's why they fled -- their relatives believe in the Kim dynasty with a quasi-religious faith. They say that when everyone is raised to worship the Dear Leader, when there are no contrary voices, people genuinely revere the leader.
 Most say the faith is not as strong as it was a dozen years ago, mostly because so many people have heard whispers of Chinese prosperity. But they still laugh at the idea that the Dear Leader is about to be toppled. 
 ''I think we'll have regime change in America before we have regime change in North Korea,'' says Han Park, a Korea specialist at the University of Georgia. He estimates that 30 percent of North Koreans have a stake in the system, and that most of the rest know so little about the outside world that they don't realize how badly off they are. 
 A hermetic seal is the main reason the Kim dynasty has survived so long. When I arrived at Pyongyang airport, I was obliged to hand over my cellphones and satellite phones, to be picked up on my departure. Even many senior government officials have no access to the Internet.
 From the moment I landed at the airport, I kept trying to change money. But the airport refused, my hotel refused and shops refused. Foreigners are supposed to pay for everything only in foreign currency and be isolated from the local economy. (Finally, a friendly Korean official -- they were all surprisingly friendly, with unexpectedly good senses of humor -- gave me a few coins as souvenirs for my children.)
 If the American policy premise about North Korea -- that it is near collapse -- is highly dubious, our essential policy approach is even more so. The West should be trying to break that hermetic seal, to increase interactions with North Korea and to infiltrate into North Korea the most effective subversive agents we have: overweight Western business executives. 
 Instead, we maintain sanctions, isolate North Korea and wait indefinitely for the regime to collapse. I'm afraid we're helping the Dear Leader stay in power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); RELIGION (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (52%); ARRESTS (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (78%) Nicholas D Kristof; George W (Pres) Bush; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%) North Korea

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



348 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: A Week To Follow The Fed

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
IT'S Fed speak week.
 On Wednesday, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, will appear before the House Financial Services Committee to present the central bank's semiannual report on the economy and monetary policy to Congress.
On Thursday, the Fed will release the minutes of the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee of June 29 and 30, when policy makers decided to raise their benchmark short-term interest rate to 3.25 percent, their ninth quarter-point increase in the last year. 
 Mr. Greenspan's testimony, the final semiannual report he will make before leaving as chairman at the end of January, comes as prospects for economic growth have again turned more positive, after concerns about a slowdown based on weaker-than-expected economic data for May.
 Of course, investors and analysts will be looking for any hint that the central bank's policy makers are thinking of slowing the pace of rate increases -- or for any indication of how high the benchmark rate will go before they stop.
 In his report to Congress on Feb. 16, Mr. Greenspan, above, strongly suggested that the Fed would keep raising its benchmark interest rate.
 He also said that he could not explain why the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note had dropped, instead of climbed, since the Fed began raising the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks the previous June. He called the 10-year note's performance a ''conundrum.''
 The stock market was subdued then, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up just 0.22 points. And the bond market trembled, with the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note jumping to 4.16 percent, from 4.10 percent the previous day. On Friday, that yield was still 4.16 percent, and Mr. Greenspan still had his conundrum.
 The minutes of the June meeting may not cause much of a stir, because Mr. Greenspan will have already testified and been questioned about the meeting.

DATA WATCH -- The report on foreign purchases of American stocks and bonds in May is due Monday. It could move the dollar, which fell 0.6 percent against the euro last week, its second consecutive weekly decline. The dollar slipped 0.1 percent against the Japanese yen, ending a three-week rally. Analysts are predicting that the report will show that net foreign purchases totaled $60 billion in May, up from $47.4 billion in April, according to Bloomberg News.
 Housing starts for June will be reported on Tuesday, with forecasters expecting a rise of 2 percent, to an annual rate of 2.05 million. The June index of leading economic indicators, due Thursday, is expected to rise 0.4 percent, after falling 0.5 percent in May.


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks housing starts (monthly change) from 2004-2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); STATISTICS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); JAPANESE YEN (72%); EURO (72%); HOUSING STARTS (71%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) Jonathan Fuerbringer; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



349 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Deer Stalker Heads East

 BODY:
Evidence that deer in upstate New York have been infected with a disorder called chronic wasting disease is stirring great anxiety among hunters, conservationists and politicians. The disease is invariably fatal to deer and elk, but is not known to harm humans. 
 First identified in the 1970's, the disease, which affects the brain and nervous system, is endemic in regions of Colorado and Wyoming and has been found in a half-dozen other Western and Midwestern states. Its emergence in New York has prompted officials to declare a containment zone in Oneida and Madison Counties, where the first seven cases of the highly transferable disease were found. 
 It has also captured Congressional attention. Senator Charles Schumer has rifled off a five-page warning about the threat to the upstate hunting economy and deer herds. Conservation officials in neighboring states are warily watching their New York borders, particularly concerned that crowded deer populations in the suburbs be kept clear of the disease.
 As for how the disease might affect the good deer/bad deer debate in the exurbs, a state university veterinarian in Pennsylvania predicted recently that it would become a ''political nightmare.'' 
 The spread of this disease is not necessarily nature's magic bullet to thin the herds of limpid-eyed intruders that seem to treat local landscapes like family salad bars. But it is beyond dispute that the disease is density-related, and that people who sympathetically feed deer invite heavier concentrations and, hence, greater risk -- at least to other deer. 
 With this in mind, New York, which has already outlawed the feeding of deer near roads in an effort to reduce auto collisions, has now extended the feeding ban to all parts of the state. 
 Hunters in the containment zone may be surprised that their prize kills will be beheaded at state checkpoints, since a brain exam is the one sure way to diagnose the disease. Indeed, so little is known about the disease that Mr. Schumer would make the Animal Health Diagnostic Center at Cornell into a national research center. 
 And even though scientists have found no evidence so far that animals can transmit the disease to humans, the center would further explore the potential risk to humans in an environment where disparate, determined creatures increasingly compete for the same green spaces.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); MAMMALS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SUBURBS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) Deer; Editorials; Chronic Wasting Disease

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); WYOMING, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; Oneida County (Ny); Madison County (Ny)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



350 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Homeland Security's Intelligence Gap

BYLINE: By Clark Kent Ervin. 
Clark Kent Ervin, inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security from 2003 to 2004, is director of the Homeland Security Initiative at the Aspen Institute.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE results of Secretary Michael Chertoff's top-to-bottom analysis of the Department of Homeland Security are in, and the reviews are following close behind. The critics fall, predictably, into two camps: those who think that the changes are merely cosmetic, essentially rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic; and those who think that they represent a first step in the right direction. 
 Because the edifice was constructed on a solid foundation, I count myself among the optimists. But one essential building block seems to be very much misplaced, which could delay the sharing of information about possible terrorist attacks with the potential targets themselves. 
Mr. Chertoff is bringing a much-needed dose of strategic thinking to the monumental task of securing the homeland. Inarguably, he stresses that we cannot protect ourselves against every conceivable threat. Instead we should focus our resources on those threats that are likeliest to materialize and that would have the greatest consequences in terms of death, injury and economic loss. 
 The cornerstone of this sound strategic structure, however, is intelligence. Only if the relevant section of the department has complete and timely access to all available information concerning dangers to American targets can it distinguish between likely threats and unlikely ones. 
 To date, the department's intelligence group, called the Information Analysis Unit, has largely been on the outside of the intelligence community with its nose pressed against the glass. The multiagency federal entity that synthesizes all intelligence concerning threats into a coherent whole, the National Counterterrorism Center, is led by the Central Intelligence Agency. The Terrorist Screening Center, which consolidates the various terrorist watch lists compiled by federal agencies, is led by the F.B.I. 
 It was little surprise, then, that the presidential commission on American intelligence failures, headed by Judge Laurence H. Silberman and former Senator Charles S. Robb of Virginia, concluded that Homeland Security had difficulty getting answers to ''hot questions'' from the F.B.I. and the counterterrorism center. And now, with the creation of the office of director of national intelligence and the attendant reorganization of the entire community, Homeland Security has moved even further down the intelligence-community totem pole.
 The one strength to date of the Information Analysis Unit has been its close structural ties to an even lesser-known division of the Homeland Security Department: the so-called Infrastructure Protection Unit. This division is in charge of preparing energy suppliers, financial networks, food producers, operators of computer systems and telecommunications networks, the transportation industry and other providers of services vital to our national security for possible terrorist attacks. This is a complicated job, not only because of the scale involved but also because 85 percent of the potential targets -- from cellphone service towers to nuclear power plants -- are not owned by the government but are in private hands. 
 Under the old system, intelligence gleaned by the information analysis group could be communicated in a timely fashion to the infrastructure unit so that protective measures could be taken quickly. The 9/11 attacks showed what can happen when this communication between intelligence and preparedness breaks down: our intelligence system was ''blinking red'' with information about a serious threat to aviation in the summer of 2001, and yet our airports, airlines and transportation agencies had not been sufficiently warned to take steps to protect themselves. 
 The good news is that Mr. Chertoff's reorganization will elevate the intelligence component of his department. The chief of the information unit will report directly to the secretary, and will have more power and responsibility for overseeing intelligence-related activities throughout the department. He will also work directly with the office of the director of national intelligence and with the information-gathering agencies in other departments to ensure that Homeland Security is more than a bit player in the intelligence community.
 Unfortunately, under the new plan the intelligence unit will be decoupled from the infrastructure protection group, which will be folded into a larger group within Homeland Security exclusively focused on preparedness. The problem with this is that the preparedness unit needs to know what to prepare for. There's where intelligence comes in.
 To put the issue in perspective, an attack on a single chemical plant in northern New Jersey could endanger the lives and health of millions. If the intelligence analysts who learn of a threatened attack are in the same part of the department as those whose job is to warn the plant's owners and advise them of how they should safeguard it, word can go out quickly and we can save lives and dollars. Now, apparently, there will be an organizational disconnect between intelligence and preparedness. What good is ringing the alarm bell if the intended victim can't hear it?
 The Department of Homeland Security has been a frequent object of criticism, much of it deserved. Mr. Chertoff deserves credit for trying to give it a strategic direction. But if this plan creates a gap between those on the lookout for attacks and those responsible for preparing the potential targets, we will have made ourselves only more vulnerable to our enemies.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lloyd Miller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%) Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (90%); LAURENCE H SILBERMAN (51%) Clark Kent Ervin; Michael (Sec) Chertoff

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



351 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Here's a Social Security Plan That's Really Two Plans

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
IT'S no surprise that President Bush can't seem to gain enough allies in Washington for his Social Security plan. The program pits two very different constituencies against each other, and trying to please both with the same policy changes is a thankless task. It's time for a healing dose of new ideas.
 Transforming Social Security into a set of individual savings accounts seems a good idea to plenty of people, for one big reason: they don't think they'll need the relatively small benefits that the current program would pay when they retired, so they'd rather stop paying the payroll tax and save their money instead.
Because these people feel financially secure, Social Security looks like an awful savings program. As President Bush has repeatedly pointed out, it pays a fairly paltry rate of return on contributions -- unless, as he usually fails to note, you happened to earn a low income during your working years. And that's when Social Security's insurance aspect kicks in, providing a modest living for those who couldn't earn or save enough. 
 Plenty of Americans fit that description, and they still want that insurance. They saw pensions go up in smoke as big manufacturing companies began to fail, businesses of all types stopped contributing to their retirement funds and the stock market started to wobble. 
 The fundamental problem with Social Security is that it can't make both of these groups happy at once. By suggesting plans that try to do so, the White House and others don't help matters much.
 Instead, it's worth considering how the nation might best serve both goals: a government-encouraged saving program with a high rate of return, and an insurance program to prevent poverty among the elderly (Social Security's original purpose). The most efficient solution, most economists are likely to tell you, is to have separate programs, each focused exclusively on one of the two goals.
 The first one is easy. The federal government already offers a raft of tax-free or tax-deferred saving devices like individual retirement accounts and 401(k)'s, and the Bush administration has made concrete suggestions for expanding them. Most of those devices also allow savers to take advantage of the high rates of return available -- sometimes -- in the financial markets.
 Then comes the second one, the insurance program. This one is tougher, because people don't seem to know their own risks very well when it comes to their lifetime incomes. People often know more than insurers about their chances of suffering misfortunes like illnesses, fires and floods. As a result, the people with the biggest risks usually tend to buy the most insurance against these disasters. But the situation is reversed when it comes to saving for retirement: Americans usually overestimate their future earning power, and, to make matters worse, they're often pretty myopic about their spending habits.
 In other words, joining the insurance pool might have to be mandatory for everyone to ensure that the people who would benefit the most would buy in. If it were mandatory, however, it's likely that the premium would be fairly low.
 The reason is in the numbers. To make sure that people who can save actually do save, the benefit offered by the insurance plan shouldn't be too high. Let's say it stood at $20,000 a year, adjusted continuously for inflation -- enough for a single person to live on, but still far from the lap of luxury.
 To avoid big swings in payouts caused by population changes, like the one the nation is facing now, each cohort of workers could insure itself. In other words, everyone who is 18 now would start contributing to one insurance pool for all people who were also born in 1987; that pool would pay off a half-century from now. People who are 19 would already be contributing to a different pool, for everyone born in 1986; it would start paying off when those people reached retirement age.
 How much would everyone need to pay in premiums? The answer would depend on several factors: the number of people born in a particular year, how many survived to the retirement age, how many were likely to be eligible for the benefit (that is, are poor enough at retirement to qualify), how long they were forecast to live while receiving the benefit, and their lifetime incomes. 
 To cut a long statistical story short, let's say that 20 percent of retirees became eligible -- because of neediness -- for insurance payouts of $20,000 a year, lasting an average of a decade. Those payouts, beginning 50 years from now, would probably require a lifetime contribution rate of 2 to 3 percent of all income, or about 5 percent of wages -- a fraction of today's payroll tax rate of 12.4 percent.
 Why so cheap? Under this program, 80 percent of the contributors who lived to retirement age would receive nothing because they would have accumulated enough savings on their own. That's a sharp contrast to today's Social Security, but it's also what insurance is all about: it pays off only when you have a bad outcome, in this case being old and poor. 
 Specifying who fits that bad outcome could depend on a combined test of wealth and lifetime income, or simply income at retirement age. That second choice, however, could perversely encourage people to spend or hide accumulated assets. 
 As the Social Security debate has shown, paying for the benefits owed to everyone who contributed to the existing system is a costly challenge. Workers and their employers now pay a tax of 12.4 percent on the first $90,000 of income to support it, and in several decades that will not be enough to keep it going. A new insurancelike system, similar to the one described here, could work with a 5 percent tax. (The current rate might have to rise briefly, to make up for young workers shifting into the new system, or the federal government could borrow to cover the transition.)
 The only remaining issue would be maintaining the benefit under the new system. People who received it would have a very low income in retirement -- that is, people who could not or would not save enough while they were working. These people usually don't have much political power, so it wouldn't be surprising if a government trying to pinch a few pennies tried to cut their benefits.
 This issue doesn't plague the current Social Security program quite as much, because so many voters are eligible to receive benefits. In the new system I have sketched out, beneficiaries would be only a small fraction of voters, so the level of benefits would have to be protected for posterity.
 At first, this seems like another impossible mission. Even the Social Security surpluses built up since the 1980's under the orders of Ronald Reagan and the advice of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, have been usurped in just a few years by the Bush administration.
 No melodrama intended, but the only solution may be a constitutional amendment. The nation once ratified an amendment to authorize federal income taxes, and this one could be an appropriate adjunct. 
 And as the population ages, what could be more important than guaranteeing its financial security? 


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's ideas about Social Security pit two groups with very different interests against each other, making compromise difficult. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%) Social Security (US); Privatization; Social Security (US)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005



352 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.24 percent.
The rate on the six-month issue was 3.46 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 3.02 percent. 
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT
TOMORROW

Knoxville, Tenn., Waste and Water, $140 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY

Maryland, $430 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK

Alaska Student Loan Corporation, $58.3 million of education loan revenue bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.

Berkeley County, S.C., Water and Sewer System, $140.4 million of revenue bonds. Banc of America Securities.

California Health Facility Finance Authority, $522.3 million of debt securities for Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. UBS.

Clark County, Nev., $114.7 million of general obligation transportation refunding bonds. UBS.

Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles, $99.8 million of lease revenue bonds for Vermont-Manchester Social Services Project.

Contra Costa County, Calif., Fire Protection District, $130 million of district's taxable pension obligation bonds. Lehman Brothers.

Denver Public Facilities Lease, $60 million of trust certificates of participation.

Detroit, $470 million of city school district refunding bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.

Flagler County, Fla., School District, $77 million of certificate of participation. Citigroup Global Markets.

Forest Hills Public Schools, Kent County, Mich., $105.2 million of debt securities. A.G. Edwards.

Honolulu Wastewater, $150 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.

Houston Independent School District, $270 million of debt securities. Lehman Brothers.

Kansas Development Finance Authority, $100 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.

La Joya, Tex., Independent School District, $75 million of debt securities. Raymond James.

Lee Memorial Health System, Fort Myers, Fla., $63 million of 1997A advance refunding bonds. Goldman Sachs.

Massachusetts Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $50 million of debt securities for Berkshire Health Systems. Cain Brothers.

McAllen, Tex., Independent School District, $120 million of school building bonds. UBS.

Missouri Housing Development Commission, $68 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds for the homeownership program 2005 series. A.G. Edwards.

New York State Thruway Authority, $3 billion of debt securities for second general highway and bridge trust fund restructuring program. Goldman Sachs.

North City West School Facilities Financing Authority, $80 million of subordinate special tax revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.

Ohio State University, $277 million of general receipts bonds. Lehman Brothers.

Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation, $114.8 million of homeownership opportunity bonds. Goldman Sachs.

South Dakota Housing, $60 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); STUDENT LOANS (88%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); STUDENT LOAN CORP (70%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); BERKSHIRE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%); RY (TSX) (69%); RY (SWX) (69%); RY (NYSE) (69%); MS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (52%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (75%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (73%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



353 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: As China Raises Its Arts Profile, Officials Try to Catch Up 

BYLINE: By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17 

 BODY:
Zhou Ping joined the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra five years ago as a librarian, cataloging its scores and recordings. A sharp, plain-spoken former music major, she was promoted last August to performance and promotions manager. With a nine-person staff and no management experience, Ms. Zhou, 30, suddenly found herself with a mandate to raise the 126-year-old orchestra's public profile -- and by extension, its profits. 
 In a conference room at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the struggling new manager stood and asked a simple and pointed question of Michael M. Kaiser, the center's president: ''How do you run a marketing department with no marketing budget?'' A room full of her peers looked up eagerly for an answer. 
As China races toward a more market-driven economy, it is building new theaters, concert halls and museums nearly as fast as it is erecting Western-style shopping malls, hotels and business complexes. But the government is also decentralizing control of the arts industry, cutting the full subsidies long provided to companies and performers. Now scrambling to staff and operate a slew of increasingly independent arts organizations, the government has turned for help and advice to the Kennedy Center, which just concluded a two-week arts management seminar for the Chinese. During the program, a group of newly appointed managers and government officials charged with overseeing the arts in China sought the counsel of Mr. Kaiser and his staff on tricky concepts like courting donors, developing operating budgets and projecting and sustaining ticket sales. Chinese officials said they hoped the seminar would become an annual event.
 During the opening session on strategic planning and mission statements, Mr. Kaiser referred to the cultural development boom with a note of caution. ''This concerns me a great deal in China,'' he said. ''You're building so much, there is a fear I have that if your missions are not complete you're going to try to have every organization doing everything.'' 
 Although many of China's current global ambitions engender fear and suspicion among some American political and corporate leaders, the belief that cultural exchange can soften hostility between nations may make the growing superpower's artistic modernization less threatening.
 The management seminar is not the only major collaboration between the Kennedy Center and the Chinese government this year. In October, the Kennedy Center will present a monthlong Festival of China that it is promoting as ''the single-largest celebration of Chinese performing arts in American history.'' With 20 companies and 600 artists, the festival will showcase a wide range of performances and exhibitions, including traditional Beijing opera, modern dance, a display of Qin dynasty terra-cotta warriors and a fashion exhibition celebrating the designs of Vivienne Tam and other Chinese-born designers. 
 For the Chinese, the festival is as much study-abroad program as international tour. While Americans are taking in performances, Ministry of Culture officials said, managers traveling with the companies will have a chance to observe everything from press relations and electronic ticketing systems to coordinating ushers. 
 According to the most recent figures available from China's Ministry of Finance, government spending on the arts -- a broad category that includes performing arts, sports, film, television and radio -- rose to $6 billion in 2003 from $3.6 billion in 2000. But while overall spending on the arts has increased, much of the additional financing for the performing arts is being directed toward building new venues like the National Grand Theater, a 6,000-seat, egg-shaped, glass and titanium complex under construction in central Beijing near Tiananmen Square. Current cost estimates for the ultramodern project, which will include an opera house, concert hall and theater, are roughly $360 million. 
 Arts companies art not only competing for funds with such special projects, but also grappling with new fiinancing structures. China has a long history of supporting the arts. But for decades the Communist government ran its opera companies and orchestras essentially the same way it did steel factories and other enterprises -- it paid for and controlled virtually everything. The government covered the salaries of performers, directors, designers and stagehands alike. Ticket sales and donor support were nonissues, because company costs were fully underwritten. 
 ''When I started there was no such thing as marketing,'' Ms. Zhou said. ''The government gave us a performance plan and we did it. Things are changing very fast. There is a lot of opportunity, but we all have to figure out how it will all work.''
 Only over the past five years has government decentralization of industry spread on a large scale to artistic organizations. In 2003, according to Li Dongwen, minister-counselor for cultural affairs at the Chinese Embassy in Washington, the Chinese government instituted a new policy to gradually reduce direct financing to arts organizations. 
 Unlike in Eastern Europe, where government support of the arts was cut in the midst of economic crisis, China's cultural restructuring is happening during an economic boom. Indeed, Mr. Li and other officials insist that the central government is not so much cutting funds to the arts as it is redistributing resources. Some of the apparent reduced financing actually includes money that is being held in reserve in the form of incentive programs, they say. 
 Mr. Li said that about $2.5 million was set aside for performing arts companies to be used over a five-year period from 2003 to 2007 as bonuses to companies that produce successful, audience-drawing programs. Some artists in China have criticized the bonus program, saying it encourages overly commercial art.
 ''Performing companies now have to find the market,'' Mr. Li said. ''They must be concerned with marketing and box office. The market is the fundamental lifeline for everyone now.''
 The group of keen but largely inexperienced managers visiting Washington this month included a marketing executive charged with creating his organization's first customer database and the director of a research company responsible for designing a management focused Web site for cultural groups. 
 Pan Yong, an assistant director of performance administration for the yet unfinished National Grand Theater, left the session on writing mission statements exhilarated and overwhelmed. His responsibilities include developing fund-raising, education, marketing, exhibition and international promotions plans for the complex, which the government hopes will become the country's premier performance venue. 
 If his title obscures the breadth and weight of his responsibilities, his proposed mission statement did not. ''To be the leading performing arts institution in China,'' he told the group. ''To preserve, develop and help to flourish the continued development of classical and traditional Chinese performing arts, while using all possible resources to create and promote the highest quality of modern performing to be among the best both in China and internationally.''
 Mr. Kaiser, who listened with raised eyebrows, smiled and responded: ''That's very ambitious. Good luck.''
 Though Kennedy Center staff led sessions on topics including sales services, customer relations, grants and scholarships, and program development, Mr. Kaiser taught the majority of the course himself. His industry handbook, ''Strategic Planning in the Arts: A Practical Guide,'' published in 1995, was translated into Chinese two years ago by Mr. Pan, who had participated in a yearlong management fellowship at the Kennedy Center in 2002. The book has become a prized resource for the new cultural management class in China, and Mr. Kaiser is regarded as a demigod of sorts. 
 Students took copious notes as he referenced his personal experiences as case studies. In a session on marketing strategy, he detailed the campaign he waged as executive director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater to bring the company out of bankruptcy in the early 1990's. For a segment on fund-raising, he spoke of the donor strategies he employed in the late 1990's when he ran the Royal Opera House in England, to pay for a beleaguered building project. 
 For artistic strategy he discussed his ongoing mission to broaden the reach and significance of Kennedy Center programs -- the Festival of China being an example of an ambitious new programming schedule.
 He wrote the three strategic areas -- artistic, marketing and fund-raising -- on a notepad and connected them in the shape of a three-legged stool. ''In a market economy,'' he told the group. ''It's not supportable to have just one leg of the stool.''
 At a wrap-up session, managers and bureaucrats alike vowed new approaches. Ms. Zhou said she would set firm fund-raising targets and begin compiling data on her symphony's patrons. A Culture Ministry official said she was going to propose to her government leaders a new policy of tax deductions for contributions to nonprofit organizations.
 In the past decade, Mr. Kaiser told the group, China had, in his opinion, done better than any country in the world at training young artists. With a polite nod to the government officials in the room, he urged China's leaders to invest the same resources training arts managers. ''Your country is very good at creating miracles,'' he said. ''This would be a miracle. And I hope it happens.'' 
 Around the conference table, heads nodded back.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael M. Kaiser, right, president of the Kennedy Center, helped lead a two-week management seminar for Chinese arts executives and officials. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Michael M. Kaiser, president of the Kennedy Center, and Tiki Davies, a spokeswoman, with a gift from the arts officials visiting from China.
 From left, Jiang Haoshu, Chen Jianying, Zhou Ping and Pan Yong were part of the delegation at the Kennedy Center learning about such topics as customer relations, grants and program development. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MANAGER TRAINING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); HISTORY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); DANCE (72%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (69%); RETAILERS (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TICKET SALES (64%); FASHION SHOWS (60%) Culture; Conventions and Conferences; Finances; Culture

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (94%) Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts (Washington, DC)

PERSON: Michael Kaiser; Lynette Clemetson

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



354 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: America's Truth Deficit

BYLINE: By William Greider. 
William Greider, the national affairs columnist of The Nation, is the author of ''One World, Ready or Not.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
DURING the cold war, as the Soviet economic system slowly unraveled, internal reform was impossible because highly placed officials who recognized the systemic disorders could not talk about them honestly. The United States is now in an equivalent predicament. Its weakening position in the global trading system is obvious and ominous, yet leaders in politics, business, finance and the news media are not willing to discuss candidly what is happening and why. Instead, they recycle the usual bromides about the benefits of free trade and assurances that everything will work out for the best. 
 Much like Soviet leaders, the American establishment is enthralled by utopian convictions -- the market orthodoxy of free trade globalization. The United States is heading for yet another record trade deficit in 2005, possibly 25 percent larger than last year's. Our economy's international debt position -- accumulated from many years of tolerating larger and larger trade deficits -- began compounding ferociously in the last five years. Our net foreign indebtedness is now more than 25 percent of gross domestic product and at the current pace will reach 50 percent in four or five years . 
For years, elite opinion dismissed the buildup of foreign indebtedness as a trivial issue. Now that it is too large to deny, they concede the trend is ''unsustainable.'' That's an economist's euphemism which means: things cannot go on like this, not without ugly consequences for American living standards. But why alarm the public? The authorities assure us timely policy adjustments will fix the matter. 
 Reporters and editors typically take cues from the same influential sources and learned experts in business, finance and government. If the news media decided to cast these facts as the story of the world's only superpower losing ground in global competition and becoming financially dependent on strategic rivals like China, the public would take greater notice. But governing elites would regard such clarity as inflammatory. America's awesome trade problem is instead portrayed as something else -- an esoteric technical dispute about currency values, the dollar versus the Chinese yuan. The context is guaranteed to baffle and benumb citizens.
 The possibility that the United States can no longer afford globalization, at least not as it now functions, is what opinion leaders do not wish to discuss. A few brave dissenters have stated the matter plainly and called for significant policy shifts to stop the hemorrhaging. Warren Buffett, the legendary investor, says the United States is destined to become not an ''ownership society,'' but a ''sharecropper society.'' But his analysis, and others like it, are brushed aside. 
 An authentic debate might start by asking heretical questions: Why is the United States one of the few advanced economies that suffers from perennial trade deficits? Why do new trade agreements, despite official promises, always leave the United States with a deeper deficit hole, with another wave of jobs moving overseas? How do the authorities explain the 30-year stagnation of working-class wages that is peculiar to America? Are we supposed to believe that everyone else is simply more competitive or slyly breaking the rules? In the last three decades, American policymakers have succeeded in closing the trade gap with only one event -- a recession. 
 The American predicament is shaped by operating dynamics grounded in the global system, singularly embraced by Washington because Washington originated most of them. At the outset, these practices were both virtuous and self-interested for the United States -- encouraging industrialization in poor countries, binding cold war allies together with trade and investment, furthering the global advance of American business and finance. With its wide-open market, America played -- and still plays -- buyer of last resort for world exports. Its leading companies and banks gained access to developing new markets, often by sharing jobs, production and technology with others. American policymakers also got to run the world.
 The utopian expectations behind this arrangement turned out to be wrong, judging by empirical evidence rather than theory. But why wrong? American political debate is enveloped by the ideology of free trade, but ''free trade'' does not actually describe the global economic system. A more accurate description would be ''managed trade'' -- a dense web of bargaining and deal-making among governments and multinational corporations, all with self-interested objectives that the marketplace doesn't determine or deliver. Every sovereign nation, the United States included, uses its vast arsenal of policies to pursue its national interest.
 But on the crucial question of how policy makers define ''national interest,'' Washington stands alone. Western Europe, whatever its problems, manages economic policy to maintain modest trade surpluses. Japan manages to insure far larger surpluses in recessions (its export income subsidizes inefficient domestic employers). China strives to acquire a larger, more advanced industrial base at the expense of worker incomes and bank profits. Germany and Japan, despite vast differences, both manage to keep advanced manufacturing sectors anchored at home and to defend domestic wage levels and social guarantees. When they do disperse production and jobs overseas, as they must, they do so strategically.
 By contrast, Washington defines ''national interest'' primarily in terms of advancing the global reach of our multinational enterprises. Elites are persuaded by the reigning orthodoxy that subsidiary domestic interests will ultimately benefit too. The distinctive power of America's globalized companies is reflected in trade patterns. Nearly half of American exports and imports are not traded in open markets -- the price auction idealized by neoclassical economics -- but within the companies themselves, moving materials and components back and forth among their far-flung factories. A trade deficit does not show on the company's balance sheet, only on the nation's. In recent years, much of the trade deficit has reflected the value-added production and jobs that companies moved elsewhere.
 The United States is thus especially vulnerable to the downward pressures on working-class wages that exist on both ends of the global system. American producers are generally free -- and even encouraged by Washington -- to shift production to low-wage locations. Companies regularly use this cost-cutting technique as a competitive weapon without regard to the domestic consequences. The practice works for companies and investors, but not so well for a nation. 
 INDEED, the cumulative effects of retarding labor incomes worldwide repeatedly threatens stagnation or worse for the entire system. Workers, to put it crudely, cannot buy what the world can make. Too much capital leads to the speculative ''bubbles'' that bounce around the world, visiting financial crisis on rich and poor alike.
 At a different moment in history, American leadership might have stepped up to these disorders and led the way to solutions. If globalization is to continue without encountering more crisis and random destruction, governments must together shift the balance of power so labor incomes can rise in step with rising productivity and profits. If the United States is to avert its own reckoning, it must take decisive action to draw firm limits on its exposure to trade deficits, that is, resign its position as the open-armed buyer of last resort. In effect, Washington would also reform its own national interest imperatives so that they more closely resemble what other nations already embrace. Ultimately, American remedial action may protect the global system from its own crisis -- the moment when trading partners discover they have just lost their best customer.
 But to describe plausible remedies is to explain why none are likely. The webs of mutual interests connecting government, corporate boardrooms and Wall Street are too deeply woven, as are habits of thought among policy makers and politicians. So I do not expect anything fundamental will be altered in time. We are going to find out if the dissenters are right.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); COLD WAR (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TRENDS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%) William Greider

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



355 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Edward Heath Is Dead; Led Britain in Early 70's
Sir Edward Heath, who as prime minister took Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973 and for decades was the Conservative Party's leading advocate of European unity, died at his home in Salisbury, his spokesman said. He was 89 and had served in Parliament for 51 years. PAGE A17

British Terror Inquiry Grows
The British police are trying to determine whether four men believed to have carried out the terrorist attacks in London had financial or logistical assistance from inside Britain or elsewhere, and are seeking clues in Pakistan and Egypt. PAGE A8

Concern Over F.B.I. Files
The F.B.I. has collected thousands of pages of documents in recent years on a few civil rights and antiwar groups in what the groups say is an effort to stifle political opposition to the Bush administration. PAGE A12

Whirlpool in Bid for Maytag
The Whirlpool Corporation made a surprise $1.36 billion bid for Maytag, possibly igniting a three-way takeover battle for the appliance maker. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

2 Officers Shot in Queens
A man attacked a statue outside a Queens church with a shotgun, then fired at two police officers who responded, critically wounding them. The man was also wounded. PAGE B1

Tiger, Tiger!
Tiger Woods, cheered on by his fans at St. Andrews, pulled away in the final round to win his second British Open and his 10th career major. SPORTSMONDAY, PAGE D1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by David Cannon/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TAKEOVERS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



356 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: The Dropout Puzzle

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Many seemingly authoritative figures, not all of them partisan shills, say that the American economy has fully recovered from the recession that began in 2001. They point to the unemployment rate, which has fallen from a peak of 6.3 percent in 2003 to 5 percent last month. That's not quite as low as the 4.2 percent unemployment rate in February 2001, when the recession began, but it's fairly low by historical standards.
 For some reason, however, the public isn't feeling prosperous. Gallup tells us that only 3 percent of Americans describe the economy as ''excellent,'' and only 33 percent describe it as ''good.'' 
Maybe people are just ungrateful. Maybe they've been misled by negative media reports. Maybe they're grumpy about their paychecks: adjusted for inflation, average weekly earnings have been flat for the past five years.
 Or maybe the figures on unemployment are giving a false signal. 
 Economists who argue that there's something wrong with the unemployment numbers are buzzing about a new study by Katharine Bradbury, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, which suggests that millions of Americans who should be in the labor force aren't. ''The addition of these hypothetical participants,'' she writes, ''would raise the unemployment rate by one to three-plus percentage points.'' 
 Some background: the unemployment rate is only one of several numbers economists use to assess the jobs picture. When the economy is generating an abundance of jobs, economists expect to see strong growth in the payrolls reported by employers and in the number of people who say they have jobs, together with a rise in the length of the average workweek. They also expect to see wage gains well in excess of inflation, as employers compete to attract workers.
 In fact, we see none of these things. As Berkeley's J. Bradford DeLong writes on his influential economics blog, ''We have four of five indicators telling us that the state of the job market is not that good and only one -- the unemployment rate -- reading green.''
 In particular, even the most favorable measures show that employment growth has lagged well behind population growth over the past four years. Yet the measured unemployment rate isn't much higher than it was in early 2001. How is that possible?
 The answer, according to the survey used to estimate the unemployment rate, is a decline in labor force participation. Nonworking Americans aren't considered unemployed unless they are actively looking for work, and hence counted as part of the labor force. And a large number of people have, for some reason, dropped out of the official labor force.
 Those with a downbeat view of the jobs picture argue that the low reported unemployment rate is a statistical illusion, that there are millions of Americans who would be looking for jobs if more jobs were available. Those with an upbeat view argue that labor force participation has fallen for reasons that have nothing to do with job availability -- for example, young adults, recognizing the importance of education, may have chosen to stay in school longer.
 That's where Dr. Bradbury's study comes in. She shows that the upbeat view doesn't hold up in the face of a careful examination of the numbers. In fact, because older Americans, especially older women, are more likely to work than in the past, labor force participation should have risen, not fallen, over the past four years. As a result, she suggests that there may be ''considerable slack in the U.S. labor market'': there are at least 1.6 million and possibly as many as 5.1 million people who aren't counted as unemployed but would take jobs if they were available.
 There's both good news and bad news in that assessment. The good news is that the economy probably has plenty of room to expand before inflation becomes a problem (which implies that the Fed's decision to start raising interest rates was premature).
 The bad news is that it's hard to see where further expansion will come from. We've already had four years of extremely loose fiscal and monetary policy. Tax cuts have pushed the federal budget deep into the red. Low interest rates have helped generate a housing bubble that has lifted real estate prices to ludicrous heights in major parts of the country.
 If all that wasn't enough to give us a full economic recovery, what will?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); STATISTICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) Labor; Unemployment; United States Economy; Labor

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank of Boston

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) Paul Krugman; Katharine Bradbury

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



357 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Two G.O.P. Lawmakers Spar Over Climate Study

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
A public dispute has flared between two Republican House committee chairmen over an inquiry one of them began last month into the integrity of an influential study of global temperature trends.
 The study, published in 1998 and 1999, meshed data from modern thermometers and evidence of past warmth or cold, like variations in tree rings. The result was a curve showing little variation for nearly 1,000 years and then a sharp upward hook in recent decades. 
 The inquiry was initiated by Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas, who heads the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, after two Canadians with no expertise in climate change published academic papers and opinion articles challenging the study's methods.
 Letters requesting detailed responses to the criticisms as well as raw data, documents and financial information were sent last month by the committee to the scientists who generated the graph: Michael E. Mann, the climatologist who led the research and has just become the director of the Earth System Science Center at Pennsylvania State University; Raymond S. Bradley, a climatologist at the University of Massachusetts; and Malcolm K. Hughes, a tree-ring expert at the University of Arizona.
 The inquiry has since been criticized by scientists and Democratic lawmakers. Now the critics have been joined by Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York, the chairman of the House Science Committee, who late last week sent a letter to Mr. Barton calling the investigation ''misguided and illegitimate.''
 Copies of the letter were provided to several reporters.
 Mr. Boehlert noted that other recent analyses have supported the main conclusion of the study: that the climate's warming since the late 20th century appears to be significantly outside the bounds of natural variability. 
 But Mr. Barton's inquiry focuses on the critique by the Canadians, Steven McIntyre, an amateur statistician and mining consultant, and Ross McKitrick, an economist at the University of Guelph. 
 In his letter to Mr. Barton, Mr. Boehlert said the effort ''raises the specter of politicians opening investigations against any scientist who reaches a conclusion that makes the political elite uncomfortable.''
 In a statement sent by e-mail to several reporters, Larry Neal, a spokesman for the Energy and Commerce Committee, responded to Mr. Boehlert's letter.
 ''Requests for information are a common exercise of the Energy and Commerce Committee's responsibility to gather knowledge on matters within its jurisdiction,'' the statement said. ''When global warming studies were criticized and results seemed hard to replicate by other researchers, asking why seemed like a modest but necessary step. It still does.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); SCIENCE POLICY (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (72%) Weather; Global Warming; Research; Weather

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

PERSON: Andrew Revkin; Sherwood (Rep) Boehlert; Joe L (Rep) Barton

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



358 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5510 words

HEADLINE: New York Medicaid Fraud May Reach Into Billions

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY and MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
It was created 40 years ago to provide health care for the poorest New Yorkers, offering a lifeline to those who could not afford to have a baby or a heart attack. But in the decades since, New York State's Medicaid program has also become a $44.5 billion target for the unscrupulous and the opportunistic.
 It has drawn dentists like Dr. Dolly Rosen, who within 12 months somehow built the state's biggest Medicaid dental practice out of a Brooklyn storefront, where she claimed to have performed as many as 991 procedures a day in 2003. After The New York Times discovered her extraordinary billings through a computer analysis and questioned the state about them, Dr. Rosen and two associates were indicted on charges of stealing more than $1 million from the program. 
 It has drawn van services, intended as medical transportation for patients who cannot walk unaided, that regularly picked up scores of people who walked quite easily when a reporter was watching nearby. In cooperation with medical offices that order these services, the ambulettes typically cost the taxpayers more than $50 a round trip, adding up to $200 million a year. In some cases, the rides that the state paid for may never have taken place. 
 School officials around the state have enrolled tens of thousands of low-income students in speech therapy without the required evaluation, garnering more than $1 billion in questionable Medicaid payments for their districts. One Buffalo school official sent 4,434 students into speech therapy in a single day without talking to them or reviewing their records, according to federal investigators. 
 Nursing home operators have received substantial salaries and profits from Medicaid payments, while keeping staffing levels below the national average. One operator took in $1.5 million in salary and profit in the same year he was fined for neglecting the home's residents.
 Medicaid has even drawn several criminal rings that duped the program into paying for an expensive muscle-building drug intended for AIDS patients that was then diverted to bodybuilders, at a cost of tens of millions. A single doctor in Brooklyn prescribed $11.5 million worth of the drug, the vast majority of it after the state said it had tightened rules for covering the drug.
 New York's Medicaid program, once a beacon of the Great Society era, has become so huge, so complex and so lightly policed that it is easily exploited. Though the program is a vital resource for 4.2 million poor people who rely on it for their health care, a yearlong investigation by The Times found that the program has been misspending billions of dollars annually because of fraud, waste and profiteering. A computer analysis of several million records obtained under the state Freedom of Information Law revealed numerous indications of fraud and abuse that the state had never looked into.
 ''It's like a honey pot,'' said John M. Meekins, a former senior Medicaid fraud prosecutor in Albany who said he grew increasingly disillusioned before he retired in 2003. ''It truly is. That is what they use it for.''
 State health officials denied in interviews that Medicaid was easily cheated, saying that they were doing an excellent job of overseeing the program. 
 ''This continues to be an area where we think that we have made substantial progress,'' said Dennis P. Whalen, executive deputy commissioner of the State Health Department. ''But by no means are we sitting back and resting on the accomplishments that we have made.''
 Nonetheless, after being informed of The Times's findings, the Republican majority in the State Senate began a push recently to overhaul the system intended to protect Medicaid, which has been sharply reduced even as Gov. George E. Pataki and lawmakers have nearly doubled the program's budget over the last decade. The Democratic majority in the Assembly has remained on the sidelines. So has Mr. Pataki. 
 New York's Medicaid program is by far the most expensive and most generous in the nation. It spends far more -- now $44.5 billion annually -- than that of any other state, even California, whose Medicaid program covers about 55 percent more people. New York's Medicaid budget is larger than most states' entire budgets, and it spends nearly twice the national average -- roughly $10,600, more than any other state -- on each of its 4.2 million recipients, one in every five New Yorkers.
 That generosity was born of good intentions when Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller signed the program into law in 1966, following the state's tradition of creating big antipoverty programs. But Medicaid has become far more than the child of that altruism, having morphed into an economic engine that fuels one of the state's biggest industries, leaving fraud and unnecessary spending to grow in its wake. 
 There are no precise estimates for the cost to the state's program. Officials who have spent their careers chasing unscrupulous doctors and other providers in New York Medicaid say the losses to taxpayers here are probably higher than typical estimates of overall health care fraud. The Government Accountability Office in Washington and others have estimated that 10 percent of all health care spending nationally is lost to ''fraud and abuse.''
 James Mehmet, who retired in 2001 as chief state investigator of Medicaid fraud and abuse in New York City, said he and his colleagues believed that at least 10 percent of state Medicaid dollars were spent on fraudulent claims, while 20 or 30 percent more were siphoned off by what they termed abuse, meaning unnecessary spending that might not be criminal. ''So we're talking about 40 percent of all claims are questionable,'' Mr. Mehmet said -- an amount that would approach $18 billion a year.
 Despite the debate, and the enormous sums at stake, Albany has never formally studied how much of the huge government investment in Medicaid is lost to criminal activity and abuse. 
 For their part, federal auditors have made New York a leading target for inspection as Washington has begun to crack down on Medicaid spending abuses. The federal government shares the cost of Medicaid with the states. In New York, it pays half the bill; Albany splits the rest of the cost with its counties and New York City.
 The lax regulation of the program did not come about by chance. Doctors, hospitals, health care unions and drug companies have long resisted attempts to increase the policing of Medicaid. The pharmaceutical industry, which has spent millions of dollars annually on political contributions and lobbying in Albany, has defeated several attempts to limit the drugs covered by Medicaid; other states have saved hundreds of millions of dollars annually with such restrictions. 
 Earlier this year, after the Legislature agreed to impose such a limit and steer patients to generic drugs, the industry won a major loophole that allowed any doctor to substitute a higher-priced brand name with a simple phone call to the state.
 Governor Pataki would not be interviewed about Medicaid for this article, and his aides referred questions to the State Department of Health, which is part of his administration. The health commissioner, Dr. Antonia C. Novello, also declined to be interviewed.
 In defending the department's performance, Mr. Whalen, the executive deputy commissioner, said it had saved $9.3 billion in recent years through investigations of providers, a new computer system and other measures.
 Asked repeatedly to provide an in-depth explanation of their claim of major savings or for any state records or other documentation to back up the figures, department officials would not supply any.
 The Times investigation drew upon interviews with scores of current and former officials and health-care providers, including several former investigators who say they left the state disillusioned about its commitment to fighting fraud. A review of thousands of pages of state, federal and local records turned up repeated examples of cost savings and waste reduction used by the federal government and other states, but not by New York. 
 The investigation found audits on Medicaid spending that were brushed aside, and reports on waste that appear to have been shelved. There have been multiple warnings from watchdog agencies in New York and in Washington that indicate that the program is becoming increasingly porous. Prosecutors said state regulators had all but lost interest in bringing Medicaid thieves to justice, preferring instead to focus on recouping money through a few civil cases that have little deterrent value.

The Dentist
 On the streets of Downtown Brooklyn, the young men would regularly fan out to drum up business for Fulton Gentle Family Dentistry.
 ''Got a Medicaid card?'' one of the men shouted one day last November. ''Come in and get your free CD player right now!''
 But inside the office at 575 Fulton Street, Dr. Dolly Rosen seemed to make money whether or not the barkers did their job. She simply invented the dental work she did, according to state prosecutors alerted by The Times, and then billed it to Medicaid. And the breadth of her deception was enormous, the prosecutors said.
 In 2003, less than two years after joining Medicaid, Dr. Rosen and an associate reaped $5.4 million, more than the amounts garnered by 98 percent of providers of all types in the entire New York program, according to the analysis of Medicaid billings.
 Dr. Rosen claimed to be doing thousands of procedures every month, far more than any group of dentists could possibly perform, according to the analysis and interviews with dental experts.
 In September 2003, she charged Medicaid roughly $725,000 for 9,500 individual dental procedures, many of them expensive and complicated, such as filling cavities that had rotted away much of the tooth. On a single day that month, she billed for 991 procedures, or more than 100 an hour in a typical workday.
 In criminal complaints, an investigator said that more than 80 percent of the procedures for which the dental office billed were not performed, were unnecessary or were improper.
 Dr. Rosen, who is 48 and lives in Manhattan, was licensed in 1995 and joined the Medicaid program in 2002. Since then, she has billed taxpayers more than $7 million.
 She and her lawyer, Jeffrey A. Granat, would not comment. 
 The allegations of fraud in this case involved dentistry, but in the world of New York Medicaid, this kind of scheme is not unusual in any specialty, although it rarely occurs on such a scale. Many doctors, clinics, pharmacists and other providers routinely exaggerate their billings, investigators say, often claiming to do more work than they really performed, or substituting an expensive procedure for a minor one. Others invent visits that never occurred.
 ''This is an age-old problem in New York,'' said Professor Malcolm Sparrow of Harvard, who has written extensively on health care fraud.
 Albany stood by as Dr. Rosen's Medicaid billings went from zero in 2001 to $4 million in 2003, according to the analysis of her billing records. 
 Her 2003 billings were by far the highest of the 50,000 dentists or doctors in New York Medicaid -- $1 million more than those of the next highest, the records show.
 Dr. Rosen had an associate in the Brooklyn office, Dr. Alex Silman, who sent his own bills to Medicaid. His billings showed a similar spike, rising to $1.4 million in 2003 from $115,000 in 2002, records show. 
 The Department of Health and the state attorney general's office blamed each other for failing to stop Dr. Rosen and Dr. Silman. The department said it had alerted the office that it should investigate possible improprieties with their practices. The office said the department had botched its inquiry.
 Last fall, The Times brought its findings on Dr. Rosen and Dr. Silman to the attention of the Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, which is in the state attorney general's office. On March 24, prosecutors in the unit had Dr. Rosen and Dr. Silman arrested.
 This month, the two were indicted on charges of first-degree grand larceny, each accused of stealing more than $1 million from the program. Another associate, David Ibragimov, who handled billing for the office, was also indicted. All three have pleaded not guilty.
 The Times found Dr. Rosen's extraordinary billings using a laptop computer and commonly available software after spending a few hours studying New York Medicaid billings. And she was only one of scores of medical providers who turned up in the search with similar spikes in revenues, including three Brooklyn pharmacies, a Manhattan doctor and a Queens medical supply company. None had even been audited by the state.

The AIDS Drug
 The woman said her name was Pamela Borden, but it was not. She told the doctor that she had AIDS and had been losing weight rapidly, but she did not have AIDS and was overweight. Yet when she walked out of Dr. Mikhail Makhlin's Brooklyn office in February 2002, she was clutching a prescription for a very expensive synthetic growth hormone intended to treat wasting syndrome, a side effect of AIDS.
 The cost of the drug, entirely borne by taxpayers, was $6,400 a month.
 The woman's real intention for the synthetic hormone, Serostim, had nothing to do with AIDS. Serostim is highly sought in a thriving black market among bodybuilders, who use it like a steroid to bulk up.
 And Dr. Makhlin wrote far more prescriptions for Serostim than any other Medicaid doctor in the state, more than even prominent AIDS specialists with large practices. From 2000 to 2003, Dr. Makhlin prescribed 12 percent of all the Serostim purchased by New York Medicaid, costing the program $11.5 million, according to the Times analysis of Medicaid billings.
 Medical records and interviews with state officials suggest that the woman's visit was part of an elaborate series of scams involving Serostim that stole tens of millions of dollars from New York Medicaid, long after other states realized what was going on. In 2000, New York Medicaid paid $7 million for Serostim, but the following year, after the schemes took off, the state spent $50 million on the drug.
 The money was spent despite national publicity that had led other states to realize that Serostim was being abused, and to begin reining in their spending on the drug. Florida, for example, put restrictions on Medicaid payments for Serostim in 1997. The same year, federal officials broke up a Medicaid fraud ring that recruited people from Washington Square Park and paid them $20 to $50 to get Serostim illegally.
 At the Health Department, Mr. Whalen and his aides described the department's handling of the drug as a success. They said they had detected the increase in Serostim prescriptions and required doctors to get special approval to prescribe the drug after January 2002. But billing records show that Dr. Makhlin wrote 80 percent of his Serostim prescriptions after the restrictions were adopted.
 Serostim was approved in the mid-1990's to treat wasting syndrome, a side effect of AIDS. It is injected under the skin and causes a significant increase in lean body mass and weight. 
 The drug's manufacturer, Serono Laboratories, is the subject of an extensive federal criminal investigation into whether its executives paid kickbacks to doctors to prescribe Serostim. The company said it was cooperating with the inquiry.
 Federal authorities would not say whether Dr. Makhlin had been questioned in the federal inquiry. What is clear is that Dr. Makhlin played a pivotal role in the epidemic of Serostim abuse on the East Coast. Even now, he retains his Medicaid privileges and medical license, and has not been a subject of a state criminal inquiry.
 Dr. Makhlin, who was educated in Russia and arrived in New York in 1989, maintains that he was unwittingly duped by a parade of patients he tried to help, and that he received no benefit for prescribing a drug he considered necessary. But he and his lawyer, Nathan Dembin, will not explain how he ended up prescribing far more Serostim under Medicaid than any other doctor in the state. Thirty of his patients each received more than $100,000 worth of the drug.
 The State Department of Health did not try to discipline Dr. Makhlin until late 2003, seeking to suspend him from the program for five years and fine him $164,000. But Dr. Makhlin has successfully fought the penalties, and retains his Medicaid privileges while an administrative law judge in the department weighs his case.
 ''I did not intentionally or knowingly violate any Medicaid regulations,'' Dr. Makhlin said in court papers. ''I was simply exercising my best medical, professional judgment.''
 It was not until 2004 that the amount of Serostim purchased by New York Medicaid returned to where it was before the spike.
 The true identity of the woman who received the prescriptions from him in February 2002 will probably never be known. The real Pamela Borden was found in Brooklyn and said her Medicaid card had been stolen in late 2001. She said no one from the state had contacted her about Dr. Makhlin.

The Ambulettes
 With an immense public transit system and fleets of taxis and car services, New York is one of the nation's easiest cities to get around in, even for the old and the sick. But instead of reimbursing patients for a $2 bus ride to their doctor's office, or a $10 fare for a car service, Medicaid typically pays $25 or $31 each way for these rides, and it adds up.
 New York Medicaid paid far more than any other state to get patients to hospitals and doctor's appointments: $316 million in 2003. The state accounts for about 15 percent of all the nonemergency Medicaid transportation spending in the country, according to a 2001 report by the Community Transportation Association of America, and spends more than the next three states -- California, New Jersey and Florida -- combined. 
 The largest chunk of the $316 million spent on transportation went to some 450 ambulette services, about a fifth of which are clustered in Brooklyn. 
 And much of that spending appears to be entirely unnecessary.
 That was clear on a recent afternoon in southern Brooklyn, when an elderly woman strolled out of a doctor's office and clambered into the front seat of a van owned by M.J. Trans Corporation, a medical transport company that billed Medicaid for more than $2 million last year. After a 25-minute ride across the borough, she got out in front of her apartment, again without help, and walked inside. 
 The van is called an ambulette, and Medicaid is supposed to pay for it only when a patient cannot walk without help or requires a wheelchair. In fact, the state refers to the service as an ''invalid coach.'' But on three days spent following M.J. vans over several months, a Times reporter found that almost all of the company's passengers walked easily, without assistance. The pattern was repeated as recently as last month.
 Many doctors, therapists and clinics regularly order ambulette transportation for their patients when cheaper alternatives should have been used instead, according to a 2003 audit of Medicaid transportation expenses in New York City by the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi. 
 The state has known about abuses in the ambulette industry for years, and about the neighborhoods where kickbacks and other questionable activity takes place. In the early 1990's, regulators discovered that a quarter of the entire state's transportation billings were coming from Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, where a few companies had cornered the market with an elaborate set of kickback arrangements, according to a 1996 report on waste in the industry by the New York City public advocate's office. The report, along with others on the industry, suggested that many ambulette services billed Medicaid for rides that were never delivered. 
 But even though these schemes date back years, government records show that the state has spent almost no time looking into the ambulette industry. Prosecutors and outside auditors say that fraud, including the kind in which van services pay kickbacks to medical offices that order rides, remains rampant.
 Only five ambulette providers who billed Medicaid in the 2004 state fiscal year had even a portion of their billings audited by state officials, according to state records. 
 Mr. Whalen, the senior state health official, maintained that the industry was properly regulated, adding that in an effort to detect fraud, the department had begun requiring providers to supply more information on their operations. ''Transportation and ambulettes are on our radar screen as an active area of inquiry,'' he said.
 One of the ambulette companies that has never been audited is M.J. Trans, though it had more billings per vehicle than almost any other of its size in the state. Its Medicaid billings jumped to more than $2 million annually in 2004 and 2003 from $700,000 in 2001.
 Yuri Levitas, a manager at the ambulette company, said none of its billings were illegal or improper.
 ''We do only legal business,'' he said.
 In fact, an analysis of its Medicaid billings raises questions about whether the company is abusing the system, or possibly allowing individual patients and doctors to do so. The records indicate that the company has business relationships with medical practices in southern Brooklyn that often bill Medicaid for what seem an inordinate number of trips. 
 A doctor at a pair of clinics that specialize in pain relief and massage therapy often ordered more than 90 trips a day, as did a colleague of his. 
 At another doctor's office, Medicaid was billed 153 times by M.J. for transporting a single passenger in 2003, or essentially two or three times a week for an entire year. Another recipient went 152 times. Still others made the trip in M.J. vans more than 130 times.
 M.J. Trans said most of those rides were ordered by the office for recipients receiving physical therapy there.
 ''They order, and we go,'' Mr. Levitas said, adding that he was not responsible for ensuring that the rides were necessary.
 Several physical therapists expressed skepticism that anyone would need so much therapy.
 ''There is always the difficult or complicated case here and there that requires extensive and intensive therapy, but as a general rule, 153 visits would seem excessive,'' said Gabriel E. Yankowitz, a physical therapist for more than two decades and an official with the New York Physical Therapy Association.
 But Gail Bednik, the manager of the office, at 280 Quentin Road in Gravesend, that is in the records as having ordered the 153 rides, said there was nothing surprising about the patients who took scores of ambulettes annually at taxpayer expense.
 ''It's old people,'' Ms. Bednik said. ''They want to come every day because they're bored at home.''

The School Districts
 In just a few hours on a single day in September 2000, a senior official in the Buffalo school system wielded a rubber signature stamp and cost millions of dollars in questionable Medicaid payments for children.
 Her name was Sheryl Carswell, and at the time she was Buffalo's director of special education. Moving her rubber stamp with assembly-line speed that day, she put 4,434 special-education students on the Medicaid rolls by recommending that they receive speech therapy, according to a federal audit. That represented nearly 60 percent of the district's special-education population, roughly twice the national average of special-education students who require speech therapy.
 Yet she had not evaluated more than a few of those 4,434 students, according to the audit, issued by the inspector general of the federal Department of Health and Human Services, nor had she reviewed their case files. 
 Ms. Carswell was not stealing the money for herself or maliciously abusing the system. Instead, she was doing business in a way that has become increasingly common in Buffalo, New York City and around the state, collecting millions of Medicaid dollars for her school district by putting students into health and speech programs, often without any apparent effort to see if the students really needed them.
 All told, the schools in New York State misspent $1.2 billion in Medicaid payments on speech services from 1993 to 2001, federal audits concluded.
 In an interview, Ms. Carswell said she was simply following longstanding school procedures. ''I just filled out the paper,'' she said. ''Nobody bothered me about it.'' 
 Since 1990, schools in New York have been able to bill Medicaid for speech, hearing, and other school health services, and the state has become the most aggressive in the nation at taking advantage of this benefit. Around the state, school districts short on cash discovered in Medicaid a new revenue source. As a result, in recent years, school health services have become an $800 million annual expense, rising to the point that New York accounts for 44 percent of this type of Medicaid spending nationally, according to federal statistics.
 Licensed speech professionals quickly realized what was happening, and many have complained that schools are cutting corners and using the funds to pay for services that have nothing to do with helping poor children speak or hear better. ''We have been seeing a lot of very suspicious billing practices in New York,'' said James G. Potter, director of government relations and public policy at the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, which has 118,000 members. ''At times, folks in the schools have been just plain making it up out there when it comes to billing.'' 
 This spending was routinely approved by the state, but the federal government was not as credulous. The questionable spending touched off two audits in 2002 by the inspector general, and a civil inquiry by the federal Department of Justice.
 In an audit released last month, the inspector general revealed that in New York City schools, 86 percent of the Medicaid claims that were paid from 1993 to 2001 lacked any explanation for why the services had been ordered or violated other program rules. In Buffalo and other upstate schools, the auditors concluded that the figure was 56 percent for the same period, according to a report released last year. 
 The audits should not have come as a shock. In the mid 1990's, a private consultant told New York City school officials that their record-keeping was in such disarray that 51 percent of attendance forms for speech students could not be found. Yet school officials did not change their practices, according to the subsequent audit. 
 When the upstate school districts found out about the audits in 2002, some tried to cover their tracks, the inspector general found. Digging through their filing cabinets, they backdated records to justify Medicaid spending for services performed as many as eight years earlier.
 Now, after the audits, federal officials say Washington is likely to begin demanding its money back, and so this misuse of Medicaid money could haunt either the districts that spent it, or the state, or both. Many districts are worried that the repayment could devastate their education budgets. 
 School officials, including those in New York City, have sharply disputed the audits, and called for them to be withdrawn.
 The Justice Department suspended its civil inquiry after complaints from Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and other politicians, and federal health officials have agreed, for now, not to seek restitution from school districts. But the state itself could still be liable, and could then in turn penalize the districts. 
 Pataki administration officials say Washington has never been clear about what kind of school services it will pay for and how children should be referred to these programs, accusing Washington of changing the rules. 
 ''There is no question that school districts actually provided health services to poor, disabled children,'' wrote Kathryn Kuhmerker, a deputy health commissioner, in her response to the upstate audit.
 The state, however, did not meet its responsibility to make sure the money was properly spent, the federal audit found. The State Health Department reviewed the books of the Buffalo district only once from 1993 to 2001, and told the district its records were ''well organized.''

The Executives
 Among the biggest beneficiaries of the Medicaid program have been executives of the state's nursing homes and clinics, many of whom earn substantial salaries and profits from the program.
 According to records obtained from the Health Department under the Freedom of Information Law, 70 executives of nursing homes and clinics personally made more than $500,000 in 2002, the last year for which figures are available. Twenty-five executives made more than $1 million.
 For the nursing home executives, that money was earned in salaries and profits, most of which came directly from the daily fee that Medicaid pays for caring for each low-income patient, usually in the range of $200. Salaries are earned by employees of the homes, and profit is earned by owners, although owners are often executive directors or chief executives of the homes, allowing them to benefit in both ways.
 Consider three homes in the Bronx. The operator of the Laconia Nursing Home, which receives 90 percent of its revenues from Medicaid, earned $3 million in salary and profit. At the Grand Manor Nursing Home, also 90 percent financed by Medicaid, the operator and three family members earned a total of $2.4 million in salaries and profit. The owner and operator of the Morris Park home, 75 percent financed by Medicaid, took in $1.5 million in salary and profit.
 Advocates for nursing home residents acknowledge that the homes' operators and executives are entitled to make decent profits and salaries. But the advocates insist that it is unseemly for the profits and salaries to reach such high levels, given what the advocates contend is the industry's longstanding record of poor care. They point out that at New York nursing homes, the staffing levels are lower than the national average, a crucial indicator. All three of the Bronx homes have staffing levels lower than the national average, according to federal statistics.
 ''It's unconscionable to give yourself high salaries and not give some more money to hire people so some of these quality problems can be dealt with,'' said Cynthia Rudder, executive director of the Long Term Care Community Coalition, an advocacy group for nursing home residents. 
 Trade groups representing nursing homes counter that most homes in the state are actually in financial distress because Medicaid does not pay enough.
 Many hospital executives in New York also receive high salaries, but hospitals earn significant revenues from sources other than government social programs, including H.M.O.'s and private insurance. The 550 public, private and nonprofit nursing homes around the state, by contrast, earn more than two-thirds of their revenues from Medicaid, taking in roughly $6 billion last year from the program, according to state records. Many clinics receive most of their revenues from Medicaid as well.
 Morris Berkowitz, operator of the Morris Park home, said he deserved his profits because he worked long hours and provided excellent care.
 ''Do you know how much I have invested in this place?'' he said. ''A lot of money. And I am constantly investing in this place.''
 Earlier this year, after residents repeatedly wandered from Morris Park, federal and state officials accused the home of grievously poor supervision, and it was fined $86,000. 
 Mr. Berkowitz said the home had done nothing wrong. ''It was a political thing, and we got caught up in it,'' he said. ''People with power, they abuse their power.''
 Martin Liebman, operator of Grand Manor, said it was misleading to focus on salaries and profits. 
 ''This is a family-owned business,'' said Mr. Liebman, an officer of the state trade group of private nursing homes. ''I'm third generation in the business. We have taken care of thousands of residents and given quality care for many, many years.''
 Barry Braunstein, operator of the Laconia home, did not respond to three calls seeking comment.
 Besides their high salaries, some executives profiting from Medicaid were also taking part in another tradition: cheating the program.
 In 2002, the two owners of the AllCity Family Healthcare clinics in Brooklyn collected a total of $1.4 million in salaries, according to state records. Last year, the company was forced to return $6 million to the state, and one of its owners, Rossia Pokh, pleaded guilty to grand larceny in a case brought by the attorney general.
 At the AllCity clinics, it turns out, thousands upon thousands of the Medicaid claims were fraudulent. 

Medicaid in New York
 This is the first of a series of articles that will examine the security, the effectiveness and the cost of New York's Medicaid program, the largest of its kind in the nation and the state's biggest expense.
 Tomorrow: How the state's protections against fraud have grown increasingly frail.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Dolly Rosen, a dentist, with her lawyer, Jeffrey A. Granat. She is charged with Medicaid fraud. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(ph. A1)
$5.4 Million for Dental Work in 2003 -- A barker lured customers to Dr. Dolly Rosen's Brooklyn office, which had extraordinarily high Medicaid billings. (pg. B4)
$2 Million for Brooklyn Rides Billed by an Ambulette Company in 2004 -- Though intended for patients who need help walking, M.J. Trans Corporation's medical vans regularly transported people who required no assistance.
$1.5 Million in Salary and Profit to Nursing Home Executive -- The Morris Park Nursing Home in the Bronx, which receives 75 percent of its revenue from Medicaid, was fined for poor supervision. (Photograph by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart: ''All in a Day's Work''A Brooklyn dentist, Dolly Rosen, was paid by New York Medicaid for 991 procedures on a single day in September 2003, costing $63,967. Here are the claims.(X) = multiplyFilling X 454 = $41,803Cleaning X 178 = $10,249X-ray X 203 = $4,588Examination X 89 = $2,566Tooth removal X 35 = $2,070Dentures X 6 = $1,702Tooth sealant X 11 =$387Other X 11 = $387(Source by State Medicaid records The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart: ''A Growing Burden''New York's annual Medicaid spending dwarfs that of other states, including California, which has far more recipients . . .N.Y.RECIPIENTS (millions): 4.2SPENDING (billions): $44.5Calif.RECIPIENTS (millions): 6.6SPENDING (billions): 33.4Tex.RECIPIENTS (millions): 2.8SPENDING (billions): 17.3Fla.RECIPIENTS (millions): 2.1SPENDING (billions): 14.4Pa.RECIPIENTS (millions): 1.7SPENDING (billions): 13.3Ill.RECIPIENTS (millions): 2.0SPENDING (billions): 11.2OhioRECIPIENTS (millions): 1.7SPENDING (billions): 10.6. . . and it spends far more even after adjusting for the numbers of recipients and state residents.SPENDING PER RECIPIENTN.Y.: $10,644Pa.: 7,626Fla.: 6,706Ohio: 6,206Tex.: 6,158Ill.: 5,818Calif.: 5,038SPENDING PER CAPITAN.Y.: $2,314Pa.: 1,072Calif.: 930Ohio: 921Ill.: 881Fla.: 827Tex.: 769New York's spending on Medicaid has risen rapidly . . .Graph tracks total spending on Medicaid by New York State since 1995.. . . and is consuming an increasing proportion of the state's budget.Graph tracks Medicaid spending as a percentage of all New York State spending since 1995.Despite this growth, the New York State Department of Health has been recovering less from fraud and abuse investigations.Graph tracks fraud and abuse recoveries as a percentage of Medicaid budget since 1997.(Sources by State Medicaid programs
New York State Division of the Budget
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
 U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (92%); LOBBYING (90%); MEDICARE FRAUD (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (75%); INDICTMENTS (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); SPEECH THERAPY (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (64%); WEIGHTLIFTING (61%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid; Frauds and Swindling; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%)

PERSON: Clifford J Levy; Michael Luo; George E (Gov) Pataki; James Mehmet

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



359 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Bombings Continue in IraqAs Violence Is Condemned
Senior elected officials and civic and religious leaders in Iraq condemned the suicide attack that killed at least 71 people. But their words did not stop the bombings. In Baghdad, four suicide bombers struck within a span of six hours. A1

Saddam Hussein was referred for trial in the first of more than a dozen cases of crimes against humanity that Iraqi and American investigators have been building against the deposed Iraqi dictator. A10

Britain Readies Terror Laws
British authorities are readying new laws that would give the police stronger authority to try to thwart terror attacks and to silence clerics regarded as what the police call ''preachers of hate.'' A8

Israeli Tanks Press Gaza Border
Israel and the Palestinians faced the possibility of a major confrontation as Israel massed tanks just outside the borders of the Gaza Strip in response to recent violence. A6

Abusers in Afghan Wars Cited
The first report to cover human rights abuses committed over the full two and a half decades of war in Afghanistan was released, identifying militia leaders responsible for atrocities, many of whom are candidates in the national elections scheduled for Sept. 18. A9

Mexico Braces for Emily
Mexican authorities evacuated tens of thousands of tourists in preparation for Hurricane Emily, a Category 4 storm. When the airport closed, more than 5,000 were still stranded and were being bused to shelters, the Mexican authorities said. A4

Peace Deal in Indonesia
The Indonesian government and separatists from the tsunami-devastated province of Aceh agreed to end a 30-year conflict, one of the longest in Southeast Asia, in which 15,000 have been killed. A3

Bomb in Turkey Set to Timer
The explosion that killed five people on Saturday in the Turkish town of Kusadasi was set off by a timer or remote control, not a suicide bomber, a government official said. A3

NATIONAL A12-16

Reporter Names Rove As First Source on C.I.A.
Matthew Cooper, a reporter for Time magazine, said that the White House senior advisor Karl Rove was the first person to tell him that the wife of the former ambassador Joseph C. Wilson IV was a C.I.A. officer, according to a first-person account in this week's magazine. A1

F.B.I. Files Alarm Activists
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has collected at least 3,500 pages of internal documents on a handful of civil rights and antiwar protest groups in what the groups charge is an effort to stifle political opposition to the Bush administration. A12

Temperature Study Questioned
A public dispute has flared between two Republican House committee chairmen over an inquiry one of them began last month into the integrity of an influential study of global temperature trends. A14

Homeland Security Agenda Set
After five months of a relatively low-profile tenure leading the Homeland Security Department, Michael Chertoff, a former appeals court judge, Justice Department official and prosecutor, stepped out this month, detailing an agenda that provoked some opposition in Congress. A12

Texas Church Gets New Home
The nondenominational Lakewood Church, the nation's largest congregation, moved into the Compaq Center, once the home of the Houston Rockets, after $95 million in renovations, including two waterfalls and enough carpeting to cover nine football fields. It seats 16,000. A1

School Success Calculated
Governors from 45 states agreed on Sunday to adopt a common formula to calculate high school graduation rates, an initiative intended to help policy makers more accurately measure student success. A12

E.P.A. Seeks to Improve Image
The Office of Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency is seeking public relations consultants to organize focus groups on how to buff the office's image. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Medicaid's Noble IntentYields an Easy Target
New York's Medicaid program has become so huge, so complex and so lightly policed that it is easily exploited. A yearlong investigation by The New York Times found that the program has been misspending billions of dollars annually. A1

Officers Critically Wounded
Two police officers were critically wounded by a man with psychiatric problems, who fired repeatedly at them after he attacked a religious statue outside a Queens church with a spear and shotgun, the police said. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Woods Wins British Open
Tiger Woods cemented his status as the best golfer in the world with a five-stroke victory over Scotland's Colin Montgomerie in the 134th British Open at the Old Course at St. Andrews. D1

Surprise Win in Tour Stage
In a day of triumph for the Discovery Channel team, Lance Armstrong solidified his hold on the leadership of the Tour de France and, in a surprise, his teammate George Hincapie won the 15th stage over six daunting climbs in the Pyrenees. D1

ARTS E1-8

Harry Potter Sets Record
Scholastic Inc. said that an estimated 6.9 million copies of ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince'' were sold in the United States in the first 24 hours it was on sale, smashing the one-day sales record set by the previous book in the popular series. E3

OBITUARIES A17

Sir Edward Heath
Prime Minister of Britain who took the country into the European Economic Community and was the Conservative Party's leading advocate of European Unity, he was 89. A17

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

A Third Maytag Bidder
The Whirlpool Corporation made an unsolicited $1.36 billion bid for Maytag, the American appliance maker, igniting a three-way takeover battle for the company. The offer came after Maytag agreed to be sold for $1.13 billion to Ripplewood Holdings, a private equity firm, which spurred Haier, a major Chinese conglomerate, to make a $1.28 billion bid. C1

Rise in Web Map Services
Yahoo, Google and Microsoft are creating mapping services that link Internet data to Web-based maps, with the expectation that they will become a focal point in one of the next growth areas in Internet advertising: location-specific ads that would be embedded in maps generated by a search query. C1

Luring Christian Audiences
Mainstream Hollywood, after decades of ignoring the pious -- or occasionally defying them with the likes of Martin Scorsese's revisionist ''Last Temptation of Christ'' and Kevin Smith's parody ''Dogma'' -- is adjusting to what it perceives to be a rising religiosity in American culture and is looking to appeal to Christian audiences. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: More Social Security follies; the VW scandal; helping students instead of banks; Lawrence Downes on a one-joke movie.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D10
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E8
Crossword E2
Weather A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (76%); TRENDS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); HURRICANES (70%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); TSUNAMIS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KARL ROVE (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); MEXICO (93%); INDONESIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



360 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Goes From Hand to Hand in Iowa, Checking the 2008 Pulse 

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

DATELINE: KNOXVILLE, Iowa, July 17 

 BODY:
Expertly sidestepping dried dung at a county fair here Saturday night, the tall, tanned man with a big grin and an outstretched palm looked every inch the candidate barnstorming before the Iowa presidential caucuses.
 ''Hi, I'm George Pataki, from New York!'' he said, raising his voice over the oinks and bleats and neighs in the livestock barns nearby.
 ''I know you!'' cried Todd Parker, standing amid hog-filled pens. ''You're a celebrity. I've seen you on Fox News.'' 
Inside the horse stables, Don French paused after a handshake. ''Last name, run it by me again? Pete what?''
 In a flush of excitement was a woman who identified herself as ''the Queen Mum,'' because her daughter had just won a fair pageant. But it was not just the coronation that delighted her. ''The governor of New York!'' she said. ''I've always wanted to go there and twirl my umbrella down Fifth Avenue in the rain.''
 ''Queen Mum,'' Mr. Pataki said, ''you come to New York, I'll buy the umbrella.''
 The governor, it should be said, is not running for the White House (yet), and the 2008 caucuses are a way off -- well, 30 months, a blink in the ceaseless bustle of Iowa presidential politics. Mr. Pataki is actually a third-term Republican fighting wobbly approval ratings, voter fatigue and an uncertain future back home. Many New Yorkers do not think he should run for a fourth term (he will decide in the fall), and those who work in politics tend to be skeptical about the idea of a Pataki presidential bid.
 None of that mattered over the weekend during the Man from Peekskill's happy-go-lucky, 48-hour swing through greater Des Moines, where he undertook his most public exploration yet of a presidential candidacy.
 Appearing looser and more at ease than many other Northeastern campaigners in the Midwest, Mr. Pataki did not seem to have to try hard to fit in.
 At a farmer's market Saturday morning, he ambled along in a nonstop sampling of local delights, cantaloupe here and Iowa popcorn there and a basket of blackberries that he passed around. He delighted older women by warning, ''Hide your money, there are politicians nearby.'' With a modicum of cornpone, he regaled anyone who would listen with biographical snippets about Farmer George, who once sold homegrown corn and tomatoes, and Raceway George, who recalled the stock cars of his youth as he watched his first Sprint Car competition at the fair here.
 ''Libby and I did this every Saturday till '94, brought stuff down from our farm and sold it,'' Mr. Pataki said, referring to his wife, who did not make the trip, and to the year he was first elected governor. ''Not much money in it, but sweet memories.''
 While more Iowans recognized him than even he had expected, he said, few knew his politics. Instead, they remarked on his statuesque bearing, an attribute that helped Senator John Kerry make a good first impression before his caucus victory in 2004.
 ''He's a nice-looking young man, that's for sure,'' said Mary Craft, standing by a honey stand.
 ''He's taller than I thought,'' added her husband, Don.
 As the weekend went on, Mr. Pataki felt more and more confident that this was fertile political ground for a moderate Republican who cut taxes and gained a reputation for resolve after the 9/11 attack, several friends and political allies here said.
 He spent an hour Friday talking politics with David Yepsen, an influential columnist for The Des Moines Register, whose praise helped lift Mr. Kerry's spirits when his presidential campaign was struggling in 2003. He also met with Iowa Republican Party leaders and watched eight innings of an Iowa Cubs minor league game, where one man in the cheap seats could be heard yelling ''Pataki '08!''
 On Saturday, Mr. Pataki sat in a quiet booth in the back of the Court Avenue Brewhouse and picked the brain of Terry Branstad, the Republican governor of Iowa from 1983 to 1999. He also worked in time for events at the National Governors Association meeting in Des Moines.
 Mr. Pataki's strategy in Iowa, allies say, would be to bank on conservative candidates splitting the vote of the right, and people warming to his sunny personality and tax-cutting record. Such attributes, these associates hope, would neutralize his support for abortion rights, gun control and gay rights, and his record of greater government spending.
 That is the hope, at least.
 ''Pro-choice and pro-gay, those are problems in Iowa,'' Mr. Branstad said in an interview before lunch. ''But you can talk about New York's economic development success, being a sportsman, and also new ideas for energy. That helps him.''
 There is a learning curve for campaigning in the Iowa presidential caucuses, and Mr. Pataki is clearly on it. He absorbed, for instance, that a prospective Republican candidate should not drink alcohol in public, even at Friday's ballgame in the 90-degree heat, for fear of a picture ending up in the local newspaper that might turn off socially conservative voters. He listened more than he talked. He carried a black Sharpie felt-tip pen to autograph baseballs and game tickets, notepads and market receipts. His political director, Rob Cole, took so many Pataki-in-Iowa photos that his camera battery died.
 His entourage, with several aides, advisers and security officers in white S.U.V.'s, was a little too large for casual campaigning by Iowa standards, but those in his camp said they would probably slim down for the next trip, perhaps in September for a chamber of commerce event in Cedar Rapids.
 Most of all, he looked comfortable in his own skin, a quality that Iowa voters prize in their prospective candidates. Every four years, these voters head out on a frigid January night to gather in neighborhood halls and ''stand,'' or lobby and vote, for their candidates. Their enthusiasm for doing so, many caucusgoers say, depends in no small part on having a feel for their candidate's heart.
 ''You have that real hard-core, far-to-the-right group of the party, but I don't think they're electable,'' said Leslie Miller, who walked around the Marion County fairgrounds with Mr. Pataki on Saturday evening. ''Then there are those of us in the middle who want to take the party back. I know he's with us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki at a downtown farmers' market on Saturday in Des Moines. He also attended the Marion County fair in Knoxville. (Photo by Charlie Neibergall/Associated Press)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WOMEN (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (60%) Presidential Election of 2008

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: Patrick D Healy; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



361 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Team Chosen For Project To Develop Transit Hub

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Pataki administration plans to announce today that it has selected a development team to transform the general post office in Midtown Manhattan into a dramatic new $930 million transit hub, a long-awaited project that proponents say will be a catalyst for development and an opportunity for civic redemption.
 The Empire State Development Corporation has picked a joint venture of the Related Companies and Vornado Realty Trust to turn the blocklong James A. Farley Post Office on Eighth Avenue into a grand Moynihan Station, named after Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the senator who was its champion until his death in 2003. The project includes not only a train station but also a major block of space for retail, office or residential use.
''It's my hope that it'll be a great train station, serving as the city's front door,'' said David A. Childs, an architect at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill who had designed an earlier version of the Moynihan renovation. ''It would be a chance to reclaim the glory of the original Penn Station.'' 
 The post office, most of which was built in 1913, sits across Eighth Avenue from the existing Penn Station, a warren of crowded, below-ground passageways connecting two commuter railroads and two subway lines. That is all that is left of the original station, a Beaux-Arts masterpiece demolished in 1963 despite protests by preservationists and architects. Many of Penn Station's existing tracks and platforms, which serve nearly 550,000 passengers a day in the city's busiest transportation hub, already extend beneath the post office.
 The original station and the post office share a classical style and the same architect: McKim, Mead & White. The post office's grand staircase on Eighth Avenue and the long row of 53-foot-high Corinthian columns will remain intact, and the Postal Service will maintain a small presence for retail patrons. 
 The Moynihan Station's principal tenant will be New Jersey Transit, which is desperate for additional platforms. New York State has already made a $20 million down payment on the $230 million purchase of the Farley building from the Postal Service.
 State and city officials, urban planners and developers say that the station could accelerate development of the formerly industrial neighborhood west of the post office.
 ''This project provides a critical addition to the city's transportation infrastructure and offers tremendous economic development opportunities for the neighborhood,'' said Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 The selection is a victory for Steven Roth, chairman of Vornado and one of the largest commercial landlords in Manhattan, and Stephen M. Ross, chairman of Related, the most prolific and politically connected developer in the city today. Vornado has made a major investment in the area around Penn Station and Madison Square Garden, where it owns skyscrapers containing six million square feet of office space, as well as the Hotel Pennsylvania, across Seventh Avenue from Madison Square Garden, and several retail properties.
 The joint venture competed against Boston Properties and Tishman Speyer for the project. Vornado and Related were able to offer more money, according to a government official involved in the negotiations, because Vornado intends to transfer about one million square feet of development rights from the post office site to a parcel at the northeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 33rd Street, where it plans to build a tower.
 The two companies will pay about $300 million for the development rights and an annual payment in lieu of property taxes, which has not been disclosed. The size of the payment was a point of contention between state and city officials. City officials had wanted the amount to be higher than real estate taxes downtown so the development would not compete with the rebuilding effort in Lower Manhattan.
 Vornado and Related have been working with architects at Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum and James Carpenter Design Associates. But it is unclear what remains of Mr. Childs's 1999 design for a soaring, asymmetrical glass and steel canopy that would funnel light into a great entry hall. The government official, who has seen the new plans, said that Mr. Childs's design had been ''modified.''
 The Moynihan project has traveled a twisted and difficult path since Mr. Moynihan first secured federal funds for the project. It now has the support of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Gov. George E. Pataki and Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation.
 It was first conceived as train station, principally for Amtrak, that would take up about half the Farley building. But the project grew in size and scope to include office space. The Postal Service agreed to move out, but then reconsidered.
 The Postal Service relented in 2002, but last year, Amtrak dropped out of the project because of money problems. Its ticket windows and track entrances will remain east of Eighth Avenue.
 Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said he considered the Moynihan Station to be a far more significant project for the future of the Far West Side of Manhattan than the ill-fated $2.2 billion stadium for the Jets. He said it would bring the ''portals'' of the city's busiest transit hub farther west, from Eighth Avenue to Ninth Avenue, which should spur development in the surrounding neighborhood and provide confidence for commercial builders.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of an earlier design for the new station, which will occupy the James A. Farley Post Office, a soaring Beaux-Arts building. (Photo by Jock Pottle/ESTO, courtesy of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POSTAL SERVICE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Railroads; Farley, James A, General Post Office (NYC); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Railroads; Finances

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit; Empire State Development Corp; Related Companies; Vornado Realty Trust

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: STEVEN ROTH (56%); MICHAEL I ROTH (50%) Charles V Bagli; Daniel Patrick (1927-2003) Moynihan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005



362 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Creative 'Reinvigoration' by Acquisition

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
A SMALL, creatively focused New York agency, Powell, is set to be bought by MDC Partners, a small, acquisitive agency company that specializes in owning creatively focused agencies. Plans call for Powell to be merged with a midsize MDC agency also based in New York, Margeotes Fertitta & Partners.
 The deal, for undisclosed terms, is expected to close soon, executives said yesterday. The goal of the acquisition is to bolster the creative output of Margeotes Fertitta at a time when midsize agencies confront intensifying challenges on two fronts in landing clients and hiring talent: from smaller competitors like Powell, Mother, StrawberryFrog and Taxi as well as the goliaths like BBDO, Leo Burnett, JWT and McCann Erickson. 
After the deal closes, Neil Powell, the president and executive creative director at Powell, which he founded in 2001, will become the executive creative director at the merged agency, which is to combine the staffs and accounts of both agencies under the name Margeotes Fertitta Powell.
 ''We don't have to change our initials,'' George Fertitta, the chairman and chief executive, said, laughing. Mr. Fertitta, who keeps those posts after the acquisition, helped found Margeotes Fertitta in 1973 with John Margeotes. (Mr. Margeotes retired in 1989. The agency, initially known for print campaigns for luxury goods, has also carried other names over the years like Margeotes Fertitta & Weiss.)
 Several senior managers at Margeotes Fertitta will keep their posts at Margeotes Fertitta Powell. They include Michael Kantrow, 37, who became the president in February, and the creative director, Alison Gragnano. However, Fred Langbecker, the chief operating officer, will be leaving.
 Mr. Fertitta, 59, said he would not call the merger ''a reinvention'' of Margeotes Fertitta but rather ''a reinvigoration.''
 ''This will enable us to offer a number of additional services,'' he added, ''to serve clients in ways we haven't been able to before.''
 Among those services are design, multicultural marketing and nontraditional marketing, as typified by a recent Powell campaign that featured graffiti-style ads for Rheingold beer. The ads, painted on the roll-up shades of storefronts on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, were intended to stimulate demand for the beer brand among the neighborhood's young, hip consumers.
 MDC, based in Toronto, has sought to gain size and stature in the competitive field of agency companies -- dominated by giants like the Omnicom Group and the WPP Group -- by buying majority or minority stakes in agencies known for their abilities to produce standout campaigns that generate attention and sell products in addition to (or even instead of) winning awards. MDC bought a majority of Margeotes Fertitta in 1998; the rest is owned by Mr. Fertitta and other senior managers. Among the other shops under the MDC umbrella are Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Cliff Freeman & Partners, Kirshenbaum Bond and Mono.
 Marketers are increasingly eschewing ''multinational, multioffice agencies,'' said Miles S. Nadal, the chairman and chief executive at MDC, in favor of ''smaller, entrepreneurial agencies that they feel can produce results.''
 The Powell deal would be the first in which MDC has acquired an American agency and merged it with one that MDC already owns. MDC has previously done that in making some Canadian acquisitions. 
 The risk inherent in the deal is that the transplant of Mr. Powell, 37, and the other Powell employees may not take. That frequently happens on Madison Avenue when different cultures are combined at one agency.
 '''Successful mergers' in this industry is almost an oxymoron,'' Mr. Nadal acknowledged. ''The way to do it is so the operating partners choose'' their merger partners, he said, ''rather than the holding company mandating it.''
 That was the case in this instance,, he added, because Mr. Powell, Mr. Fertitta and Mr. Kantrow had discussed a combination for several months before bringing the idea to him.
 Mr. Powell worked for the creative agency Fallon Worldwide for nine years, in Minneapolis and New York, before leaving to open his own agency. He said he was also aware that the deal could be fraught with peril.
 ''Will it be challenging?'' Mr. Powell asked, then answered himself: ''Yes. But this industry is full of challenges. That's why it's fun.''
 ''It's no small thing to sell your agency, something you struggled to build,'' Mr. Powell said, adding that ''over the course of the last few months I spent time with people'' at Margeotes Fertitta to test-drive the merger idea.
 ''There's a hole in the New York market, where there are either small guys or big guys, not a lot in between,'' Mr. Powell said, adding: ''New York needs another agency like it needs another restaurant. But I think there's a hole there and we're going to try to fill it.''
 The combined Margeotes Fertitta Powell is to have about 167 employees, 150 from Margeotes Fertitta and 17 from Powell. Combined billings are estimated at $255 million, $25 million from Powell and $230 million from Margeotes Fertitta.
 Clients of Margeotes Fertitta that the new agency will handle include the Arena Football League, Geoffrey Beene, the Godiva division of the Campbell Soup Company, Independence Bank, Lugz shoes and the Radisson Seven Seas Cruise Line, part of the Carlson Companies. Powell clients to be handled by Margeotes Fertitta Powell will include American Standard, the CMT and MTV cable networks, Rheingold and United Technologies.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Neil Powell, center, with his new colleagues, George Fertitta, left, and Michael Kantrow of Margeotes Fertitta & Partners. (Photo by Joe Tabacca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BEER & ALE (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MERGERS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (66%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (66%); PRINT ADVERTISING (65%); LUXURY GOODS (65%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (65%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Biographical Information; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (60%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS LLC (58%); WPP PLC (58%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS INC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); JWT (56%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Mdc Partners; Margeotes Fertitta Powell; Powell (Ad Agency); Margeotes Fertitta & Partners

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott; Neil Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



363 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: A New Microchip Project Is Begun at Albany Center

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 18 

 BODY:
New York State officials are continuing to think small when it comes to trying to reinvigorate the flagging upstate economy.
 They plan to announce a $600 million partnership with the computer industry on Thursday to develop technology at the State University at Albany to make transistors even more unimaginably tiny, so they can cram even more of them onto computer chips.
The project, which is being called the International Venture for Nanolithography, is the latest of the state's efforts to make Albany a high-tech center that can compete with other industry hubs like Austin, Tex., and Silicon Valley in California. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, has made the effort one of his administration's top priorities, and has worked to lure businesses and investors to Albany NanoTech, the research operation based at the state university here. But in a sign that the drive is now bipartisan, the latest project is being started with $105 million in state funds that will be spent at the request of the Democratic-led State Assembly -- a public investment that the center expects will grow to $180 million over the next few years. 
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said in a statement that ''the work that is being done here at this facility is transforming this region.'' 
 Nanotechnology, the science of manipulating extremely small things, has become a hot topic among politicians, researchers and journalists. ''Nano'' is not the catchphrase from an old sci-fi comedy starring Robin Williams, but a prefix meaning one-billionth. One nanometer is a billionth of a meter.
 One of the goals of the new venture in Albany, said Dr. Alain E. Kaloyeros, the president of Albany NanoTech, will be to shrink transistors to 22 nanometers from 90 nanometers, so more can fit on computer chips. To put that in perspective, consider that an average human hair is about 100,000 nanometers wide. 
 Dr. Kaloyeros said that chip makers -- I.B.M.; Advanced Micro Devices, (the second-largest chip-manufacturing company after Intel); Infineon Technologies; and Micron Technology -- will invest $200 million in the project. And he said he expected companies that supply materials and equipment to invest another $220 million in the project. 
 The growth of the technology sector here got a big boost in 2002, when Governor Pataki helped lure Sematech, the computer chip consortium that helped transform Austin into a major center of computer research, to Albany. The hope was that Albany -- another state capital, another university town and an area with a relatively low cost of living -- had all the ingredients to follow in the footsteps of Austin, which saw its economy jolted to life by the computer industry. 
 Since then, several other big companies have been lured to the area. Now the focus is on lithography, using smaller and more focused wavelengths of light to etch smaller and smaller patterns onto semiconductor materials to create circuits. 
 ''What appears on the surface as being decoupled announcements are part of a strategy to transform Albany NanoTech and upstate New York into the biggest, baddest player, if you will, at the most expensive, richest and most challenging aspect of the computer chip industry -- lithography,'' Dr. Kaloyeros said. 
 Albany, of course, has yet to morph into Austin, and attempts to generate buzz by rechristening the Hudson Valley ''Tech Valley'' are still met with bemusement in many quarters here. But if the investments that high-tech firms have made in the area have yet to translate into enormous numbers of jobs, they have helped fuel an optimism about the future of the region that is reflected in the rising price of real estate, analysts say.
 Since the Sematech deal, the state has given $535 million to start projects at Albany NanoTech, and private industry has committed to investing $1.7 billion, NanoTech officials said. There are currently 645 people working at NanoTech, officials said, which is shy of the 1,000 it was hoped would be working there by now. But the new project should bring more than 200 more jobs to NanoTech, officials said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NANOTECHNOLOGY (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (77%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%); INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Albany NanoTech; State University of New York at Albany

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MU (NASDAQ) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%); IFX (FRA) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%)

PERSON: Sheldon (Speaker) Silver; Alain E (DR) Kaloyeros; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Albany (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



364 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: World PC Shipments Up 16% in Quarter

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 18 

 BODY:
Global shipments of personal computers rose a better-than-expected 16.6 percent in the second quarter, paced by strong demand for low-cost systems, notebook computers and commercial PC replacements, the market research firm IDC said on Monday. 
 The Europe, Middle East and Africa region was a strong source of growth in the quarter, with shipments rising more than 20 percent, IDC said. 
 ''The growth is beyond what we expected last quarter and it's mostly coming from international markets as opposed to the U.S.,'' said David Daoud, an IDC analyst.
 Despite concerns about rising interest rates and oil prices, and efforts by the Chinese government to slow its economy, business investment and rising consumer interest in cheaper PC's are driving growth in the Asia Pacific region, IDC said. 
 Growth in the United States bounced back from a first quarter that was hampered by slow public sector spending and a difficult comparison with a year ago, IDC said. Consumer demand and the public sector also showed gains. 
 Over all, worldwide shipments of PC's rose to 46.6 million, from 39.9 million, in the second quarter a year ago, IDC said. 
 ''That's pretty significant,'' Mr. Daoud said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Consumer Behavior; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Idc (Co)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe; European Union; Middle East; Africa; Asia

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



365 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Dhaka Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: A Lot of Cash in a Very Poor Nation: Welcome to the Mall

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE; Julfikar Ali Manik contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh 

 BODY:
Based on their surroundings, Mushfique Rahman and his two friends could have been standing in the Mall of America, the Minnesota retail behemoth that is the largest shopping center in the United States.
 Teenagers in blue jeans bought tickets to an American-style multiplex movie theater. Parents guided children through an indoor amusement park with a merry-go-round. Wealthy executives tried out the swimming pool and high tech fitness center in the new Gold's Gym Dhaka. 
 In truth, the three young men were standing in something they consider far better: Bashundara City, a gargantuan new $80 million shopping complex in downtown Dhaka that bills itself as the Mall of South Asia. According to the Bangladeshi developers, the eight-story, 2,000-store retail colossus is South Asia's largest shopping mall.
 ''The whole world is getting Westernized,'' said Mr. Rahman. ''Why should we be left behind?''
 The mall, which took about six years to build, is not the only sign of prosperity and Western-style consumerism emerging in Bangladesh, a nation better known for epic poverty than epic consumption. Over the last several years, new BMW, Land Rover and Volvo dealerships have opened in Dhaka, the impossibly crowded capital of about 10 million people. A handful of American-style amusement parks and upscale restaurants have also appeared.
 Since opening its doors last November, Bashundara City has drawn huge crowds and emerged as a symbol of progress among Bangladeshis, particularly upper-class ones who have profited handsomely from a quantum leap in garment exports to the United States and Europe.
 ''For people in Dhaka, life is getting better; shopping, restaurants,'' said a Western diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be perceived as passing judgment. ''A lot of people got rich off textiles.''
 But Bangladeshi economists say the arrival of a megamall and BMW dealership reflects something else: a widening gap between rich and poor in Bangladesh, which remains one of the world's poorest and most densely populated nations. 
 Mustafizur Rahman, research director at the Center for Policy Dialogue, a Dhaka-based research institute, estimated that only 5 to 6 percent of the people are wealthy enough to shop regularly in the capital's new high-end stores.
 ''The positive things you have seen in Dhaka City also convey unequal income distribution,'' he said. ''Not all people are able to access what you see.''
 Over all, Mr. Rahman added, Bangladesh is experiencing its brightest economic performance in decades. Led by the surge in clothing exports, the country's economy has grown by roughly 5 percent a year for more than a decade, and poverty has been reduced somewhat. It has also slashed its infant mortality rate by 50 percent in 10 years, the sharpest decline of any country in the world.
 Yet staggering problems remain. Despite more than $30 billion in foreign aid since independence from Pakistan in 1971, nearly half of the 140 million Bangladeshis still live below the poverty line, according to a United States government estimate. Two-thirds of its workforce is still employed in agriculture. 
 Only 20 percent of the population has access to electricity, and potentially vast natural gas reserves remain unexplored.
 The Western diplomat who discussed the mall said Bangladesh must cut its population growth rate even more, and increase its economic growth rate beyond 5 percent. ''The population figures are good, but we're still looking at 250 million people in 2050 in a country a bit smaller than Iowa,'' he said. ''Five and a half percent isn't going to do it.''
 Whatever the country's prospects, the new megamall is clearly a hit. Managers estimate that 15,000 to 20,000 people enter on busy week days, and 30,000 to 40,000 on weekends and holidays.
 When visitors pass through the mall's clear glass front doors, neatly dressed security guards in black berets and neckties politely search them.
 Inside, the most impressive feature is an eight-story atrium topped with a 180-foot-wide, clear glass dome. Four glass-enclosed elevators ferry passengers up and down, offering dramatic views of the entrance hall below. A large-screen television in the lobby plays Bangladeshi television advertisements, including one that depicts a husband and wife fighting over the remote control of their new color television.
 Shoppers raved about the mall, proudly declaring it world class. Rich and poor alike appeared to revel in its open spaces, with several people saying they came to see the mall itself, not to buy goods, which they called pricey. The mall, in short, has become both a tourist and a retail destination.
 Abdus Samad, a frail, 70-year-old guided by his young nephew, said he came to see the mall while visiting relatives in Dhaka. Staring at the atrium's vast glass dome, Mr. Samad, an illiterate farmer, said the mall was proof that Bangladesh had improved in his lifetime. ''Of course something has developed here,'' he said, his eyes twinkling behind a pair of thick, black-framed eyeglasses. ''Otherwise, how can this type of market take place?''
 Just who is responsible for the mall, as well as Bangladesh's improving economic fortunes, is a matter of debate. The country's long-feuding political rivals, Prime Minister Khaleda Zia and the opposition leader, Sheikh Hasina, insist their own policies are ushering in an economic renaissance.
 But visitors to the mall unanimously declared Bangladesh's private sector the country's only hope. They said that if the country's government, which has long been criticized for infighting, corruption and inefficiency, had been involved, the shopping complex would never have been built.
 Bangladeshis also dismissed questions about whether the mall signified Western consumerism encroaching on Bangladeshi culture. Capitalizing on public dissatisfaction with the country's two main political parties, a small group of hard-line Islamist politicians have been urging the people of the predominantly Muslim country to move closer to Islam.
 Abdul Salaam, a 45-year-old Education Ministry office worker who was touring the mall with his wife, dismissed those arguments. Mr. Salaam's wife wore a head scarf, something unusual in religiously moderate Bangladesh, but he praised the mall, saying it was convenient and offered a variety of goods ''under the same roof.''
 ''Bangladesh should go forward,'' he said. ''There is no rule that what they have in the West we can't build here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the mall's attractions are an amusement park, an American-style multiscreen movie theater, a swimming pool and a gymnasium.
 Bashundara City, a dazzling eight-story shopping mall that opened recently in Dhaka, has become a favorite with Bangladeshis with money, but presents a sharp contrast with the nation's poverty. Rapidly growing textile and clothing exports have generated a spurt in purchases of BMW's and Volvos, as well. (Photographs by Zakir Hossain for The New York Times)Map of Bangladesh highlighting Dhaka.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); FITNESS CENTERS (76%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); TRENDS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (66%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (65%); TEXTILES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers; Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: GOLD'S GYM INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Bashundara City (Shopping Center) (Bangladesh)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (57%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (57%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (57%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (57%)

PERSON: David Rohde

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (91%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%) BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (71%) Bangladesh; Dhaka (Bangladesh)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



366 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Iraqis Press Donors for Billions More in Reconstruction Aid

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, July 18 

 BODY:
As fresh violence engulfs Iraq, the officials in charge of its government pressed a major meeting of donor nations here on Monday for billions of dollars in new financing to repair a country that remains in a state of physical and economic collapse.
 But in a finely balanced argument, the Iraqi officials also said their country and its fledgling financial institutions were stable and secure enough to manage the influx of that much money. 
 In fact, those officials said, now is the time for local Iraqi governments to take the lead in setting priorities for rebuilding out of the hands of foreign nations, and for Iraqi contractors to carry out virtually all of the work with local labor.
 Some of those pleas were answered when Japan reached what the Iraqi planning minister, Barham Salih, said were the outlines of an agreement to provide $3.5 billion in low-interest loans for water, sewage, road and other projects. The World Bank also announced that it had offered Iraq up to $500 million in similar loans over the next two years. 
 Mr. Salih, whose ministry functions as a kind of switchyard for rebuilding funds, made it clear that he was disappointed in major portions of the American rebuilding program, which he said had failed to produce quick results despite the expenditure of about $9 billion, according to Pentagon figures.
 After formulaic declarations by officials at the United Nations and the World Bank that the first day of the conference had been a success, Mr. Salih gave a blunter assessment.
 ''I want to hold judgment and claim success once we see these pledges turned into realities on the ground,'' Mr. Salih said, adding that the rebuilding effort had roughly six months to show results before Iraqis began giving up hope that it would ever improve their lives.
 ''This is the time to make the difference,'' he said. ''It is now or it will be too late. Iraq's people have grown numb to many statements of support.''
 Staffan de Mistura, a United Nations representative at the gathering, held at a conference center next to the Dead Sea, agreed that ''we are facing six crucial months'' but argued that some programs had quietly been successful. For example, he said, water chlorination programs carried out by Iraqis have prevented major outbreaks of cholera amid the chaos of the insurgency.
 ''We cannot be, outside of this room, too loud about it, for reasons that you know,'' Mr. Mistura said, referring to the danger that any project faces in Iraq if it is understood to be directed or financed by foreigners.
 That concession captured what often seemed to be a paradox of the meeting: although the Iraqis were trying to persuade other countries that Iraq was safe and secure enough to carry out rebuilding projects, the meeting took place in the safety of Jordan rather than in Baghdad.
 Much of the conference focused on $1.1 billion already placed in trust funds for Iraqi reconstruction by a number of countries around the world, led by Japan, the European Union and Canada. Japan's contribution to those funds is the largest, about $350 million, said Michael Bell, chairman of the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq, which oversees the money.
 Most of the fund's money has already been committed to specific projects, and Iraqi officials have been saying for weeks that they hoped to reel in more pledges here. But while 59 countries registered for the meeting by an official count, actual attendance seemed sparse, and a number of those countries did not send representatives.
 Before his formal speech, Mr. Salih addressed the issue on the minds of many in attendance and asked for a moment of silence for victims of a suicide bomber who killed 71 people on Saturday in the town of Musayyib, south of Baghdad. He asked that the moment also commemorate the victims of the London bombings last week.
 Referring to the American rebuilding program, Mr. Salih said in prepared remarks that its ''large-scale, capital-intensive'' focus had been inevitable because of the crumbling infrastructure inherited from Saddam Hussein's government.
 But he added, ''It is now clear that that these megaprojects, though essential, have not succeeded in providing quickly enough for Iraqis' basic needs like electricity, water and sanitation.''
 American officials had little to say about the repeated criticism of their rebuilding programs. ''We think this was a successful day,'' said one American official who asked not to be identified because he wanted attention to remain on the Iraqis.
 Mr. Salih tried to ease a major concern of some potential donor countries by saying Iraq was making new efforts to root out corrupt officials in the government ranks.
 Christiaan Poortman, a World Bank official, acknowledged those concerns. ''At this point in time, the push is to get the money out,'' Mr. Poortman said. ''Six months from now the talk will be about 'where did the money go?'''
 He added, ''And we are not going to get burned on this one.''

	 	 		--------------------	 	

24 Killed in String of Attacks
 BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 18 (AP) -- Gunmen killed at least 24 police officers, soldiers and government workers in attacks across Iraq on Monday, and an Iraqi general said about 50 suspected insurgents had been captured in the first days of a new security operation in Baghdad.
 For the first time in several days, Baghdad was not hit by suicide bombers. But a car bomb went off near American and Iraqi troops in Rawah, 175 miles northwest of Baghdad, witnesses reported. At least one person, believed to have been a civilian, was killed, the witnesses said.
 The latest bloodshed occurred in a series of small-scale ambushes and shootings. The deadliest attack on Monday was in the western Baghdad district of Khadra, where eight policemen died in a gun battle with insurgents, the police said. It was unclear whether the insurgents suffered casualties. There were other attacks in Baghdad, Taji, Samarra and Mosul as well.
 The military said an American marine died in what was termed a non-hostile incident on Sunday at a base in Ramadi. 
 Iraqi forces reported a new offensive against the insurgents in Baghdad. An Iraqi general, who spoke Monday on condition of anonymity for security reasons, said the operation began last week on the west side of the Tigris, which divides the city. He said about 50 suspected insurgents, including two Syrians, had been captured in the opening days of the operation, which would be expanded in the next few days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TROPICAL DISEASES (70%) Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: James Glanz

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (67%) IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



367 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: N.R.A. Cancels Convention In Columbus Because of Ban

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, July 18 

 BODY:
Looking to punish this city for enacting a ban on assault weapons, the National Rifle Association announced on Monday that it had canceled plans to hold its national convention here in 2007, an event that was expected to pump more than $15 million into the local economy.
 ''Thanks to the Columbus City Council, 65,000 people will not be coming to your wonderful Greater Columbus Convention Center in 2007,'' Wayne LaPierre, the rifle association's executive vice president, said in a news conference here. ''The only thing the City Council can expect out of their decision is the gratitude of those businesses in the city we go to instead.''
 The announcement came five days after Mayor Michael Coleman signed legislation outlawing the sale of certain kinds of military-style semiautomatic weapons and requiring people who purchased such guns before the law's effective date, Aug. 12, to register them with the police. 
 Columbus officials and gun control groups condemned the rifle association's decision, calling it an effort not only to embarrass the Council but also to bully the State Legislature into passing a bill that would invalidate the Columbus ban and prohibit other cities from enacting similar measures. A Republican lawmaker is expected to introduce such legislation this fall.
 ''What we saw today was a heavy-handed attempt to dictate policy,'' Mr. Coleman said at City Hall on Monday afternoon. ''That might work in Washington, but it's not going to work in Columbus.''
 The rifle association's action was also its opening foray into the 2006 race for governor, in which Mr. Coleman plans to run in the Democratic primary against Representative Ted Strickland, who voted against a federal assault weapon ban in 1994 and has been endorsed by the rifle association in recent years.
 Though Mr. LaPierre declined to say whether the rifle association's powerful political action committee would support a candidate in the Democratic primary, he made it clear that he believed Mr. Coleman's signature on the assault weapon ban would hurt him in next year's election. 
 ''It's simply bad politics to be on the wrong side of the Second Amendment at election time,'' Mr. LaPierre said, asserting that Vice President Al Gore lost the 2000 presidential election because he supported gun control, including a federal ban on assault weapons. The Republican-controlled Congress allowed that law to expire last September.
 In an interview, Mr. Strickland called the rifle association's decision ''consistent with their position,'' adding that he would not have supported the ban. ''I'm weary of issues that polarize people,'' he said. 
 Supporters of the Columbus law, including the police officers union, said they pushed for a local ban in response to the expiration of the federal law. They said that the Columbus police had confiscated larger numbers of military-style weapons in recent years from criminals, including a murder suspect who wounded a police officer in a fierce gun battle last year. 
 ''We need anything that puts another tool in our belt to keep weapons out of criminals' hands,'' said Detective Daniel R. Jones, the officer who was wounded in that firefight and has lost hearing in one ear.
 The weapon that injured Detective Jones was a fully automatic AK-47 rifle that was illegal even before Columbus enacted its ban on assault weapons, the police said. 
 Gun control advocates said the Columbus assault weapon ban improved on the expired federal law by providing a more detailed description of proscribed weapons, listing components like thumbholes in stocks that could serve as pistol grips, detachable magazines that could be removed without tools and muzzle brakes that reduced recoil. 
 Those descriptions close loopholes in the federal law that allowed manufacturers to make slight adjustments to semiautomatic weapons and circumvent the ban, gun control advocates said.
 A Columbus city councilman, Michael Mentel, a sponsor of the law, said the rifle association knew months ago that the city was considering a ban, and he called its decision to pull the convention out of Columbus ''a ruse'' intended to make a national case against gun control. 
 Mr. LaPierre denied that, saying that the rifle association decided to move the event only after its lawyers decided the Columbus law would prevent vendors from exhibiting many of their wares at the huge gun show that was to be the convention's main attraction. He said the association would announce within two weeks where it planned to hold its 2007 convention. 
 He added that the rifle association would consider holding a future convention in Columbus if state lawmakers passed a bill invalidating the Columbus ban and pre-empting local governments from passing similar measures. Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dayton and Toledo already have similar bans in place, gun control advocates said.
 More than 40 states have enacted such pre-emption laws, many of them as a result of N.R.A. lobbying. But Ohio has a long tradition, enshrined in its Constitution, of giving municipalities wide latitude to set local policies. As a result, any effort to stop cities from enacting gun restrictions would almost certainly face court challenges, gun control advocates said. 
 Aides to Mr. Coleman said they would try to counter the rifle association's attacks on him by portraying the mayor as a crime fighter whose main goal has been to take weapons away from criminals. They also suggested that Mr. Coleman's support for an assault weapon ban might help him among more liberal Democratic primary voters.
 ''People support common-sense restrictions on guns,'' said Steve Campbell, Mr. Coleman's campaign manager. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wayne LaPierre, the National Rifle Association's executive vice president, at a news conference. (Photo by Tom Dodge/Columbus Dispatch, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); CITIES (91%); GUN CONTROL (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNORS (66%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (65%) Firearms; Gun Control; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Second Amendment (US Constitution)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (93%) National Rifle Assn

PERSON: TED STRICKLAND (56%); AL GORE (55%) Wayne Lapierre; Michael (Mayor) Coleman; James Dao

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (96%) OHIO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Ohio; Columbus (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



368 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Philips Posts First Sales Drop in Nearly 2 Years

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BERLIN, July 18 

 BODY:
Philips Electronics said Monday that quarterly sales fell for the first time in almost two years amid a slump in consumer confidence in Europe.
 Sales at Philips, based in Amsterdam, fell 2.7 percent in the quarter, to 7.09 billion euros ($8.5 billion) from 7.28 billion euros a year earlier. 
A one-time gain helped increase net profit for the period, but operating income fell to 147 million euros from 356 million euros a year earlier.
The chief executive, Gerard J. Kleisterlee, said that the downturn was a result of anemic consumer spending in Europe's biggest markets. 
 ''Consumer demand is weak and it is going to take a considerable amount of time for that to change,'' Mr. Kleisterlee said in an interview. ''U.K. retail is down a lot. Italy has been affected. The Netherlands is a laggard. France and Germany are also weak.''
 While the sales decline was the first since the third quarter of 2003, net profit rose 60 percent to 983 million euros on the sale of a stake in Navteq, an American maker of digital navigation maps. The sale resulted in a one-time gain of 753 million euros.
 Mr. Kleisterlee said European consumers were not spending because their confidence was being undermined by changes to government pension systems, increases in mandatory work hours and a rollback of social benefits.
 ''Most countries in Europe are now beginning to face the reality that with aging populations and low growth, they can no longer sustain social security systems they had built up since the 1950's,'' Mr. Kleisterlee said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EURO (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); AGING TRENDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); AGING (64%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Company Reports ; Electronics

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Philips Electronics

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (84%); PHIA (AMS) (84%); PHG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: Kevin O'Brien; Gerard Kleisterlee

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (73%) EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



369 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Truckers Steam and Fruit Roasts as Syria Chokes Lebanese Border

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ZOEPF

DATELINE: MASNAA, Lebanon, July 16 

 BODY:
Syria has suddenly increased the inspections it imposes on commercial traffic coming from Lebanon, leaving hundreds of trucks stranded at border crossings for more than a week, and adding a bitter trade dispute to the already strained relationship between the two countries. 
 Syrian officials say that border guards are carrying out searches for weapons and explosives, and that Syria is simply securing its borders and hunting for would-be insurgents, just as the United States has pressed it to do in recent months. Many Lebanese, on the other hand, see the searches as punitive. 
 The new border inspections, which began about three weeks ago, are putting a huge strain on Lebanon's farms and industries, which must ship their products through Syria in order to sell to other Arab markets. Lebanese farmers alone are losing more than $300,000 a day, their unions estimate, as fruits and vegetables spoil quickly in the scorching Middle Eastern summer. 
 Mohiyeddin Al Jamal, the head of a Lebanese agricultural union, told Future Television, a popular Lebanese satellite channel that, ''Lebanon is under an economic embargo.'' 
 Judith Harik, a former political science professor at the American University of Beirut, said Syria could be taking its revenge for what is locally perceived as a humiliating forced retreat from Lebanon in the wake of the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik al-Hariri, for which Syria was widely blamed. 
 ''Syria's saying, 'You want us out? See what happens to your produce. See what happens to your energy supplies,''' Dr. Harik said.
 At Masnaa, the main border crossing on the busy highway that runs between Beirut and Damascus, on Saturday the line of trucks parked two abreast waiting to cross into Syria was well over two miles long. Until recently, truckers said, it took no more than a couple of minutes to traverse the bleak stretch of no man's land that runs through the mountains between the countries. Since the new security measures were put in place, however, some of the truckers have been waiting as long as eight days for their turn with the inspectors. 
 More than 300 trucks used to cross into Syria daily, they say, but now no more than about 40 are allowed to enter. Mahmood, a Lebanese truck driver who, like other drivers interviewed, declined to give his last name for fear that doing so could create problems with the Syrian authorities, said he had been waiting in line for three days with a cargo of frozen vegetables bound for Saudi Arabia. He is forced to keep his engine running in order to power the refrigeration unit that keeps the vegetables frozen, and he has nearly run out of fuel. 
 ''If the goods go bad, I have to pay for them,'' he said, shaking his head. ''It comes to $20,000.''
 Basil Sannoufa, the director of Syria's customs service, said in an interview that the border problems were ''nothing political,'' and were merely an unfortunate side-effect of an effort to modernize customs inspection techniques. 
 ''We have the right to inspect all lorries and goods and people that are coming into Syria,'' Mr. Sannoufa said. ''We have developed a long-term plan to upgrade our infrastructure at the border. Of course, until these plans are completed, we must inspect everything by hand, and this takes time.''
 Mr. Sannoufa said that although international attention was focused on the big border crossing at Masnaa, the upgrades were taking place on all of Syria's international borders. At Tanaf, Syria's main southern border crossing into Iraq, ''there is a 35 kilometer queue waiting to cross,'' Mr. Sannoufa said, adding that the customs services in neighboring countries had been informed of the new measures, but had not yet replied as to how they would be cooperating with Syria.
 ''When we achieve cooperation, this situation will quickly improve,'' Mr. Sannoufa said.
 Lebanese officials say they hope that an amicable solution can be reached. Nasri Khoury, the Lebanese chairman of the Lebanese-Syrian Higher Council, said he would go to Damascus this week to meet with Syrian officials, but suggested that they were looking for concessions from the Lebanese side. ''We are hoping that this can be resolved quickly,'' he said, ''but we have yet to hear from the Lebanese government about what they plan to do to cooperate with the Syrians.''
 Political analysts suggest that Syria may be trying to force Lebanon's politicians to choose between their neighbors and chief trading partners, and the foreign interests that would like to see a democratic Lebanon free from Syrian influence.
 Andrew Tabler, a researcher on the economies of Syria and Lebanon for the Institute of Current World Affairs, said that increasing border controls reminded Lebanon how much its economy depended on cooperating with Syria. 
 ''Syria is putting pressure on Lebanon to make hard decisions,'' Mr. Tabler said. ''And it wouldn't be the first time that Syria has tried this kind of economic strangulation. They used to do this during the Lebanese civil war when Lebanon didn't want to fall in line with Damascus.'' 
 But while politicians from both sides hold meetings, for now it is the truckers who are paying the heaviest price. A Jordanian trucker named Anwar explained that the stranded drivers had been sharing supplies of food and fuel, trying to help those with more fragile cargoes stave off financial ruin. All along the line of trucks, the drivers have formed little makeshift camps, sitting on folding cots in groups of 5 and 6, drinking tea and eating salted pumpkin seeds and trying to while away the time cheerfully. But they are getting more anxious by the day. 
 ''We used to have good supplies of food and water and diesel,'' Anwar said. ''But now we're running out of everything, and we don't know what to do.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stranded truckers, whose rigs form a line two miles long at the Syrian border, shared food and tea yesterday as they waited to leave Lebanon. (Photo by Hussein Malla/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); TRENDS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Trucks and Trucking; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: Katherine Zoepf

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) LEBANON (95%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Lebanon; Syria

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



370 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Iacocca, Away From the Grind, Still Has a Lot to Say

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 18 

 BODY:
Lee A. Iacocca is back and still shooting from the hip.
 After remaining silent during Detroit's recent doldrums, Mr. Iacocca, the 80-year-old former Chrysler chairman, is talking about cars again and even promoting Chrysler's cars in three new commercials. In an interview on Monday, the man who once pulled Chrysler from the brink of bankruptcy in the early 1980's offered his views on the domestic industry and its weakest giant, General Motors. 
Among other things, he said Detroit's automakers need to move faster on hybrid electric cars. G.M., he added, should have invested in hybrids instead of buying the Hummer brand. G.M.'s eight domestic brands are too many to manage effectively, he said, and Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman and product development chief, has not made enough progress revitalizing the company's cars and trucks in his nearly four-year tenure. Mr. Lutz, 73, was Chrysler's president while Mr. Iacocca was chairman, and the two had a contentious relationship. 
 But Mr. Iacocca said G.M.'s biggest problem is its health care costs, which, at an estimated $1,500 per vehicle in the United States, exceed the cost of steel. 
 ''They're fighting for their lives because they have to get their health care costs under control,'' he said. ''When I heard the union guys said, 'Well, we're not going to open the contract, we don't think they're that bad off so we'll wait till 2007,' you better hope there's a company left.''
 G.M. is pushing the United Auto Workers union to agree to major concessions on health care benefits this summer; the union has said it will only work within its contract, which does not expire until September 2007. 
 As for his former company, Mr. Iacocca says he believes Chrysler's popular 300 sedan is a good blueprint for what Detroit should be doing -- making cars that stand out from models that look ready-made for Avis or Hertz lots. While he is not completely enamored of the new Ford Mustang -- Mr. Iacocca championed the original in his days as a top Ford executive -- he said it did succeed in making a strong statement. 
 ''Chrysler hit its stride and is doing some great work,'' he said. ''I think Ford has some more to do, beyond Mustang. But G.M., I'm trying to think what they would do for a new Pontiac or Buick. For me, honestly, they fade into the landscape.'' 
 ''Lutz has had enough time there,'' he said, adding, ''What do they have that turns your head when it goes down the street?''
 In response, Thomas J. Kowaleski, a spokesman for G.M., said: ''The only thing I would say is we have a course that's charted and we are well on that course. We'll see whether he's right or we're right.''
 Mr. Kowaleski also said that G.M. has been investing in hybrids, pointing to its deal to jointly develop hybrids with DaimlerChrysler. 
 In the last three years, Mr. Iacocca has said little as domestic automakers have struggled. Though Chrysler has shown the most tangible signs of success, it faces many of the same fundamental challenges as G.M. and Ford. Chrysler turned to Mr. Iacocca because it, along with Ford, is following G.M.'s lead in offering the public the same discount that employees get on most 2005 models. 
 ''No matter what we did, we'd be second or third and we knew we'd get lost out there,'' said Jason Vines, a Chrysler spokesman. ''So, we said, 'What is the big idea that cuts through immediately and gets people talking about Chrysler products?'''
 The big idea was bringing back the star of more than 60 Chrysler commercials and one of the original celebrity chief executives. Mr. Vines said Mr. Iacocca would be paid more than $1 million for the deal, or more than $1 per vehicle sold in the second half of the year, though aspects of the deal were still being worked out. All the proceeds will go to finance clinical trials of a new approach to combating diabetes that are being run at Massachusetts General Hospital. Mr. Iacocca's effort to combat diabetes, www.joinleenow.org, is his main occupation now and started after the death in 1983 of his wife of 26 years, Mary, from complications related to diabetes. 
 Mr. Iacocca, some of whose previous commercials used appeals to patriotism, conceded that it was ''maybe a little ironic'' to be promoting cars for a company that is now a division of a German automaker, DaimlerChrysler. But he said it would have been more unpalatable to him to work for the Japanese automakers that were the main competitive threat to Detroit. 
 ''You know, I was once asked to do some work for Nissan,'' he said. ''That I couldn't do, that I couldn't stomach. I can't go Japanese no matter what you paid me.''
 But he did cite Toyota as the company whose focus has helped it succeed. 
 ''You know, I went out on buying sprees,'' he said. ''Ford went out and bought everything that wasn't nailed down for a while. And then G.M. reacted, they buy Saab, Ford gets Volvo. When I think about it, I look at Toyota. Toyota has a worldwide name. There's a Toyota and a Lexus and that's about it, two entities.''
 Toyota did recently add a third brand, Scion, aimed at young buyers. In the United States, G.M. sells Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick, Pontiac, Saab, Hummer, Saturn and GMC vehicles -- ''they all trip over each other,'' Mr. Iacocca said. 
 Mr. Iacocca also said American automakers need to go aggressively after the hybrid market. Addressing complaints that some hybrid drivers get less fuel savings than they expect, Mr. Iacocca said: ''If it delivers on half the promise, do it. Because you can't let Toyota rule the roost here continually.
 ''I don't see anything on the horizon short term that can improve fuel economy any faster than a hybrid.'' 
 As for G.M.'s Hummer brand, which it acquired in 1999, he said: ''Hummer, I can't understand. Even though it won't make or break G.M., why would you spend so much money on a nameplate that probably can't go anyplace?''
 Mr. Iacocca's deal with Chrysler appears to have mended his fences with the company, which were strained after he took part in a failed bid in the mid-1990's by the billionaire financier Kirk Kerkorian to take over the company. Earlier this year, Mr. Kerkorian revealed he was building a substantial position in G.M. 
 Mr. Iacocca said he saw Mr. Kerkorian, 88, at a social event before the announcement. 
 ''He said, 'I don't know, what do you think of G.M.?' I didn't think much when he asked me. Never said he bought in,'' Mr. Iacocca recalled. ''When I read it in the papers, it stunned the hell out of me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Iacocca and the actor Jason Alexander in a Chrysler commercial, one of three Iacocca ads that the automaker hopes will revive sales. (pg. C1)
 Lee A. Iacocca at his home yesterday in Bel Air, Calif. He's been hired to help sell a Chrysler discount deal. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); SEDANS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (74%); BRANDING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%) Automobiles; Electric Vehicles; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor; Advertising and Marketing; Fringe Benefits ; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; Lee A Iacocca

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



371 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Guidant Warns That Some Older Models Of Pacemakers May Need to Be Replaced
Guidant, embroiled in controversy over recalls of heart devices, alerted doctors that nine of its older pacemaker models were prone to failing. Some patients might need to have the units replaced, the company said. [Page C1.]

Visa to Bar CardSystems From Processing Payments
Visa USA said that it would stop allowing CardSystems Solutions to process transactions, months after the company left the records of millions of cardholders at risk for fraud. [C1.]

Iacocca Speaks Out on Detroit's Problems
After remaining silent during Detroit's recent doldrums, Lee A. Iacocca, the former Chrysler chairman, is back and still shooting from the hip. [C1.]

Citigroup Reports Disappointing Results
The increased volatility in fixed-income markets took its toll on two large banks as Citigroup and Bank of America reported second-quarter earnings, with Citigroup harder hit. Market Place. [C1.]

Citigroup's earnings -- weighed on the market. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 65.84 points, to 10,574.99. The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 6.79 points, to 1,221.13, and the Nasdaq dipped 11.91 points, to 2,144.87. [C9.]

News Corporation to Buy an Internet Company
The News Corporation agreed to buy Intermix Media, which owns the social networking site MySpace.com, for $580 million. After announcing the transaction, Rupert Murdoch, left, the chief executive of News Corporation, said that after initial doubts he was won over on the deal after meeting the entrepreneurs who run the company, and studying the surging popularity of MySpace.com with young consumers. The site has more than 16 million monthly users, and features the equivalent of home pages created by 200,000 music groups. [C6.]

New Generation of Power Brokers in China
A group of rich and politically astute investment bankers is altering China's economy and restructuring some of its biggest corporations. [C1.]

Tax Break on Stocks Can Be Illusory, Studies Show
Millions of investors who bought dividend-paying stocks after President Bush persuaded Congress to lower the taxes on investments to 15 percent are paying a lot more, in some cases almost 50 percent more, analyses show. [C3.]

Merck Scientist Is Questioned at Vioxx Trial
The plaintiff's lawyer in the first Vioxx lawsuit to reach trial confronted his first witness, challenging a senior scientist from the drug maker Merck over the company's marketing practices. [C3.]

Spirit Airlines Obtains Additional Financing
Spirit Airlines, the nation's biggest privately held carrier, plans to announce that it has obtained $100 million in new financing, which it will use to try to offset the soaring price of jet fuel. [C8.]

Chief of Universal Renews His Contract
Ron Meyer, who has presided over Universal Studios for a decade, has signed a five-year contract with NBC Universal. He will continue to oversee the studio and the company's parks and resorts business. [C8.]

SABMiller Expected to Buy Colombian Brewer
SABMiller is expected to announce that it plans to buy Grupo Empresarial Bavaria, South America's second-largest brewer, for about $5.5 billion in cash and stock, executives close to the talks said. [C5.]

A Drop in Film Sales Reduces Quarterly Profit at 3M
3M said that it had its smallest quarterly profit gain in three years, hurt by a drop in sales of film to brighten computer and cellphone screens. Second-quarter net income at 3M rose less than 1 percent, to $776 million, or $1 a share, from $773 million, or 97 cents, in the period a year earlier. Sales climbed 5.6 percent, to $5.29 billion, with 3.5 percentage points coming from currency gains. [C17.]

I.B.M. reported second-quarter profit and sales that surpassed Wall Street's expectations. [C3.]

U.S. Seeks Higher Damages in Tobacco Lawsuit
The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court for the authority once again to seek $280 billion in damages from the tobacco industry in a lawsuit that has become a growing political liability for the White House. [A18.]

BusinessWeek Hires Editor Away From Fast Company
The editor in chief of Fast Company, John A. Byrne, is leaving to become executive editor of BusinessWeek magazine. [C6.]

Traffic Technology Could Make Skies a Little Quieter
The era of traffic helicopters may eventually end because of technological advances. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks 3M Share prices, daily closes from April till July.April: $85.12July: $74.53

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); AIRLINES (83%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); YOUTH MARKET (69%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); TAX LAW (66%); WITNESSES (65%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (64%); JET FUEL (60%); LAWYERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); MYSPACE INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); VISA INC (84%); MERCK & CO INC (81%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); DEMAND MEDIA INC (54%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (51%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); V (NYSE) (84%); MRK (PAR) (81%); MRK (NYSE) (81%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DMD (NYSE) (54%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%); RON MEYER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



372 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Quarter At Citigroup Disappoints Investors 

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
The increased volatility in fixed-income markets in recent months took its toll on two of the nation's largest banks as Citigroup and Bank of America reported second-quarter earnings yesterday. 
 Citigroup was harder hit, disappointing investors with second-quarter earnings that were below Wall Street's expectations.
Earnings from continuing operations dropped 7 percent in the quarter from year-ago levels as fixed-income trading revenues plunged and consumer bankruptcy filings rose, damping profits in the bank's North American credit card operations.
 Net income at the bank quadrupled to $5.07 billion, or 97 cents a share, from $1.14 billion, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier. The quarter a year ago included a $4.95 billion charge to settle WorldCom litigation and a gain from the sale of a stake in a Saudi Arabian bank. Revenues fell 3 percent, to $20.2 billion, from $20.86 billion a year ago. 
 Analysts had forecast earnings of $1.02 a share for the most recent quarter. Shares of Citigroup, which is based in New York, fell $1.42 yesterday, or 3.1 percent, to close at $45.
 Citigroup shares were also affected by a late-afternoon report on CNBC that its chairman, Sanford I. Weill, was planning to step down to start a private-equity fund. In a brief, one-sentence statement, the bank responded: ''The CNBC report that Sandy Weill is leaving as chairman of Citigroup is wrong.'' 
 Mr. Weill gave up the chief executive role at the firm in 2003 but at the time said he would remain chairman until 2006.
 Citigroup's chief executive, Charles O. Prince, attributed the weaker-than-expected results to ''challenging conditions'' during the quarter. ''The capital markets environment was one of the worst we have seen in years,'' he said in a statement.
 Fixed-income markets were roiled early in the quarter after the downgrade in debt ratings of the General Motors Corporation and Ford Motor Company. The downgrading depressed quarterly results at several investment banks, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. 
 Banks were also exposed to interest rate swings as short-term interest rates climbed while long-term rates held steady. This sharply narrowed the gap between the rates, also known in market parlance as a ''flattening of the yield curve.'' Banks make money by pocketing the difference between what they pay on interest on deposits and what they charge on long-term loans. 
 Analysts were surprised by the extent to which Citigroup's revenues were affected by the slide in fixed-income activity. Corporate and investment banking revenues fell 15 percent, to $5.15 billion, including a sharp 28 percent plunge in fixed-income markets revenue. 
 ''We all knew the capital markets would be weak,'' said Jon Balkind, a bank analyst at Fox Pitt Kelton. ''But what was the surprise was that there was apparently no pickup in June, which caused the corporate and investment bank to fall short as well.''
 Earnings at Citigroup's credit card operations were also hit in the quarter by what the bank termed a ''short-term spike'' in bankruptcy filings ahead of the changes taking effect later this year in the bankruptcy laws; those changes will make it less advantageous for consumers to seek bankruptcy protection. This spike added about $175 million in credit costs to the bank's North American card operations.
 The quarter was particularly busy for Mr. Prince as he continued to try to streamline Citigroup's businesses and shore up its global reputation by settling shareholder lawsuits. In June, Citigroup settled a shareholder lawsuit with former Enron stockholders for $2 billion, but the money was already in reserves so it did not have an effect on earnings. Also in June, Citigroup announced it would shed its asset management unit in a $3.7 billion asset swap with the Baltimore-based investment management firm Legg Mason.
 Bank of America, the nation's second-largest bank in market value behind Citigroup, also said its earnings were buffeted by the unpredictable fixed-income trading environment. But thanks to robust growth in consumer loans and deposits as well as gains on the sale of securities, its earnings were somewhat brighter. It reported a 12 percent jump in second-quarter earnings to $4.3 billion, or $1.06 a share, on revenue of $14.21 billion. Revenue climbed 7.4 percent, to $14.02 billion from $13.05 billion a year earlier.
 Wall Street had been predicting profit of $1.01 a share on revenue of $14 billion. Bank of America's stock ended down 90 cents, or 1.41 percent, at $45.08, partly affected by Citigroup's. 
 Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, said the bank's ability to grow profitably despite the challenging interest rate environment, ''demonstrates the value and resilience of our balanced business mix as well as the efficiency advantages of our large-scale enterprise.'' 
 Thanks in part to its April 2004 acquisition of the FleetBoston Financial Corporation, Bank of America reported growth in both consumer and business loans and overall deposits. Savings created by the acquisition also contributed to a 3 percent decline in expenses.
 Trading also proved tough for Bank of America, which said its trading-related revenues slumped 40 percent from the first quarter. That shortfall was partly offset by higher service charges and card fees. The bank also reported $325 million in gains from selling securities.
 ''The flatter yield curve and the rise in short-term rates had a bigger impact proportionately on Citigroup's bottom line than it did Bank of America's,'' said David Hilder, a bank analyst at Bear Stearns. ''But Bank of America had offsetting earnings from securities gains and other things that Citigroup did not.''
 Bank of America, which is based in Charlotte, N.C., also made several major moves in the quarter to extend its reach and broaden the depth of its product mix. In June, the bank agreed to buy approximately 9 percent of the stock of China Construction Bank for $3 billion.
 A few weeks later, the bank announced plans to acquire the credit card giant MBNA Corporation for $35 billion. When the deal closes in the fourth quarter, Bank of America will become the largest issuer of credit cards in the country.
 Yesterday, MBNA reported a 4.3 percent decline in second-quarter earnings as it took a restructuring charge and operating expenses rose.
 MBNA said net income fell to $632.1 million, or 50 cents a share, from $660.3 million, or 51 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Excluding the $14.4 million restructuring charge, earnings were $646.5 million, or 51 cents a share. Analysts had expected the company to report earnings of 49 cents a share. Shares of MBNA slid 37 cents, or 1.41 percent, to $25.85.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Citigroup was buffeted by fixed-income market volatility. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 Charles O. Prince, Citigroup's chief, blamed ''challenging conditions.'' (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); YIELD CURVE (65%); LITIGATION (54%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Citigroup Inc; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (89%) Sanford I Weill; Charles O Prince

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



373 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Student Loan Subsidies

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Halfway Measure on College Loans'' (editorial, July 12):
 Sallie Mae has long supported ending the outdated 9.5 percent student loan subsidy. Although these loans represent less than 7 percent of private-sector student loans, they consume a disproportionate share of federal subsidies. Meanwhile, more than $9 billion of the total $18 billion of these loans is not even financed by the original tax-exempt debt that created the loophole. This abuse should be curtailed now.
 Twelve of the 14 largest recipients of the subsidy are ''not for profit'' agencies. Of Sallie Mae's $112 billion portfolio, we hold $1.6 billion in 9.5 percent loans, which we inherited by acquiring three nonprofit lending agencies. We have deliberately managed our holdings to decline, while many others have exploited the law to aggressively grow their holdings.
 Unfortunately, you continue to promote the government's direct loan program, despite the Government Accountability Office's finding that the program collected $13 billion less in interest and fees than it paid the Treasury between 1994 and 2004. These losses are real and growing.

Albert L. Lord
Chairman, Sallie Mae
Reston, Va., July 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Colleges and Universities; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: SLM CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%) Sallie Mae; Government Accountability Office

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%)

PERSON: ALBERT L LORD (73%) Albert L Lord

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



374 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The New Power Brokers; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Born in China, Now Closing Deals for U.S. Firms 

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 18 

 BODY:
They grew up during China's Cultural Revolution, when Mao Zedong's brutal political campaigns in the 1960's and 1970's tore apart families, pitting children against their parents and husbands against their wives.
 Today, they are some of the most powerful deal makers in China, a group of rich and politically astute investment bankers who are helping transform China's economy and restructuring some of its biggest corporations.
Every major investment bank now has a Chinese-born star banker: Goldman Sachs has Fang Fenglei; Merrill Lynch has Erhfei Liu; Morgan Stanley has Jonathan Zhu; J.P. Morgan has Charles Li; and Citigroup has Wei Christianson.
 They are so powerful and so sought after by Wall Street's biggest firms, their pay packages can reach $10 million a year after bonuses.
 The major Wall Street investment banks generally decline to talk about how their top-level bankers operate; few of the banks would agree to comment publicly for this article. 
 But a great deal is known about this crop of fairly secretive bankers, most of them having traveled west in the 1980's to study in the United States. They have since returned home to play pivotal roles in a growing number of cross-border megadeals. Erhfei Liu of Merrill for example, was behind the scenes when Lenovo, China's biggest computer maker, purchased I.B.M.'s personal computer business. A few weeks ago, Charles Li and Fang Fenglei, two Chinese-born bankers, were at the center of things when the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, known as Cnooc, one of the huge state-owned oil companies, made a $18.5 billion bid for Unocal.
 That deal alone could earn lawyers and investment bankers up to $300 million in fees.
 It has been a long, sometimes tough, road for these bankers. For years, Westerners called the shots at investment banks operating in China, and they still do to some extent. Even now, some argue that the relationships and navigational skills of these new bankers are more valuable than their hard-core banking skills. 
 ''These are the new deal makers,'' said Jack Huang, head of the Greater China practice at the law firm of Jones Day. ''Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs. Look at their organizational chart and you'll see a lot of Chinese-born bankers at the junior and senior level now.''
 Of course, the rise of Chinese born star bankers does pose some risks to the banks. There are worries that these bankers could disrupt their companies' corporate cultures if they are perceived as stars. There are also concerns that currying favor in China's often corrupt political and financial system could end in scandal. 
 And there are expensive bidding wars that periodically break out here even though China still accounts for only a fraction of the global revenues of the major investment banks.
 Still, the new power brokers are on the rise. They are mostly in their 40's, born in China and educated in the United States. They were raised as Communists, but were schooled in capitalism. 
 The large banks, though, like to insist they are not operating under a star system. And it is clear that these bankers are backed and supported by the power, prestige and resources of the world's richest investment banks. 
 Mr. Liu at Merrill was a lead banker on the stock offering of the China Shenhua Energy Company, Hong Kong's largest -- though not its most successful -- listing so far this year. His star power also helps Merrill's influence, as it advises Haier, China's biggest appliance maker, in a bidding battle for Maytag. 
 These bankers are paid handsomely, the firms say, because they can get access to powerful officials and then navigate the complex byways of East-West deal making. 
 ''These people are rainmakers and well-respected inside the bank,'' said Marie W. Cheung, a spokeswoman at the Hong Kong office of J.P. Morgan.
 It is not just Chinese-born investment bankers who are gaining influence: major law firms, venture capital firms and multinational corporations are also starting to turn to Chinese-born, Western-educated executives.
 Weijian Shan of the Newbridge Capital Group was a barefoot doctor during the Cultural Revolution. Andrew Y. Yan and Jing Huang at the Softbank Asia Infrastructure Fund returned home to invest $40 million in an online gaming company in Shanghai called Shanda in 2003. In January, they sold that stake for over $500 million. 
 For years, Chinese-born bankers often played second fiddle to Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore or Western businessmen. Now, at the highest levels of deal making, the pedigrees are unmistakably Chinese.
 Charles Li worked in the offshore oil fields of northern China in the late 1970's for the predecessor company of Cnooc. Now he is the top banker in China for J.P. Morgan and one of the lead deal makers behind the Cnooc takeover bid for Unocal.
 Jonathan Zhu, who was born in Shanghai, studied Wordsworth at Cornell in the 1980's. Now he is Morgan Stanley's point man on what is expected to be one of the world's largest initial public offerings this year, by the China Construction Bank.
 ''Having the right cultural background in China and Wall Street experience: that is the most sought-after combination of skills,'' said Steve Xiang, a lawyer at Weil Gotshal & Manges and one of the few Chinese-born lawyers who worked on the Lenovo acquisition of I.B.M.'s personal computer business this year.
 Many of these bankers grew up during the Cultural Revolution. Some saw their parents imprisoned or denounced as ''capitalist roaders.'' Some roamed the countryside as teenagers or worked as peasant farmers. And those experiences helped harden them for the boot camp of Wall Street. 
 ''I stayed in Beijing and as a student finished my primary and high school education (while my parents were persecuted),'' Wei Christianson wrote in a recent e-mail message.
 But after the Cultural Revolution ended with Mao's death in 1976, many of them enrolled in college and then were among the first wave of students to study in the United States.
 Most of these ''red capitalists'' later rose through the ranks of America's biggest investment banks, crunching numbers or writing legal briefs first in New York and then in Hong Kong, where the China operations of all the major investment banks are still based.
 Yet even in the late 1990's, the top Chinese born bankers here were seen largely as ''relationship men,'' whose primary job was to connect the firms with high-level Chinese government and corporate officials. 
 Nearly every Wall Street firm privately acknowledges hiring some bankers for their connections -- in the past, they were the ''princelings,'' or the sons, daughters or relatives of high-ranking Communist Party officials -- to help smooth deal making. 
 The role of relationship bankers came under greater scrutiny last year when Margaret Ren -- the daughter-in-law of the former Chinese leader Zhao Ziyang and considered one of the most powerful Chinese-born bankers -- was dismissed by Citigroup for misconduct.
 While China is still not a significant revenue or profit center for Wall Street firms, the deals here are getting bigger and more lucrative, analysts say.
 And so the firms are willing to pay millions of dollars to hire bankers like Fang Fenglei, 53, of Goldman Sachs, and Zhang Liping, 47, of Credit Suisse First Boston, who are both thought to have remarkable access to China's power elite. 
 Mr. Zhang was one of the first Western-trained bankers to operate in China in the early 1990's, when the markets were just opening up.
 Mr. Fang is the only Chinese-born top banker without a Western degree or English fluency. But that did not prevent Goldman Sachs from hiring him last year to run its joint venture investment banking operation in Beijing, and extending a $100 million loan to him to start the venture.
 Part of their edge, these bankers say, is that they have gained access and can meet regularly with high-level government officials and the heads of major corporations. Success has come, however, from how well these bankers have anticipated the next moves of these corporations, or how smart their proposals have been for business deals. 
 Wall Street bankers need to be led, these Chinese-born bankers say, by someone who can earn the trust and respect of Chinese officials and executives but also know how to marshal the resources of a Western investment bank.
 Having lived through the Cultural Revolution, many of these bankers say they are well suited to dealing with Chinese government and corporate leaders.
 ''When you're engaged in high-level negotiations, it's the nuances that are important,'' said Mr. Zhu, who last year was named chief executive at Morgan Stanley China. ''In the M.&A. business, it's about understanding people.''
 Foreigners still fly into China to complete big deals, experts say, but as Chinese cross-border deals get larger, these Chinese-born bankers will gain experience and take on greater decision-making roles.
 John Healy, who worked as the lead lawyer for Clifford Chance when the firm advised Lenovo on its acquisition of I.B.M.'s personal computer business, said complex deals still rely on foreign bankers and lawyers with expertise in cross-border deals. 
 But, increasingly, he said, Chinese-born bankers and lawyers will take over.
 ''They'll come to play an increasingly important role,'' he said. ''Then people like me will become dinosaurs.''


CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on July 19 with an article about the new power brokers in China misidentified the law school from which Charles Li, chief executive of J.P. Morgan Chase China, graduated. It was Columbia, not Cornell.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Xiang, a lawyer at Weil Gotshal & Manges, worked on the Lenovo acquisition of I.B.M.'s personal computer business this year. (Photo by Jin Yuejue for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
(Photos by From left: Miranda Mimi Kou for The New York Times
Jin Yuejue for The New York Times
Chien-min Chung for The New York Times
Credit Suisse Group, via Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Banking on an Open Door''Many big investment banks have Chinese-born, Western-educated bankers heading their operations or playing crucial roles in China. Here are some of them.Charles Li, 44Chairman and chief executiveJ.P. Morgan Chase ChinaEDUCATIONB.A., Xiamen Univ.
M.A., Univ. of Alabama
J.D., CornellBIGGEST DEALChina National Offshore Oils bid for UnocalJonathan Zhu, 42Chief executive Morgan Stanley ChinaEDUCATIONJ.D., Cornell Univ.BIGGEST DEALArranging initial public offering of China Construction BankFang Fenglei, 53Chairman Goldman Sachs ChinaEDUCATIONB.A., Zhongshan Univ.BIGGEST DEALHelping Goldman get a banking position in China National Offshore Oils bid for UnocalWei ChristiansonChairman China Citigroup Global Markets AsiaEDUCATIONAmherst College
J.D., ColumbiaBIG DEALSChina Unicom
Sinopec
 China Life Insurance(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); TRENDS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%) Banks and Banking; Investment Banking; Banks and Banking; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JONES DAY (84%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (59%) Goldman Sachs & Co; Merrill Lynch & Co; Morgan Stanley; Morgan, J P, Chase & Co; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: David Barboza; Fang Fenglei; Erhfei Liu; Charles Li; Wei Christianson

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



375 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-11

British Eased Alert Level Based on Threat Report
Shortly before the London bombings, Britain's top intelligence and law enforcement officials concluded that ''at present there is not a group with both the current intent and the capability to attack the UK,'' according to a confidential terror threat assessment report. The report prompted the British government to lower its formal threat assessment. A1

Pakistani government officials confirmed that three of the four men identified as the London bombers visited the country last year. The disclosure provided the strongest indication yet of a Pakistani connection to the bombings. A11

Bush in Nuclear Pact With India
President Bush reached out to bring India into the world's nuclear club, striking an agreement with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to let India secure international help for its civilian nuclear reactors while still retaining its nuclear weapons. A1

Syria Boosts Border Checks
Syria has dramatically increased the inspections it imposes on commercial traffic coming from Lebanon, leaving hundreds of trucks stranded at border crossings for more than a week, and adding a bitter trade dispute to the already strained relationship between the two countries. A3

Hurricane Emily Jolts Mexico
Hurricane Emily battered the Yucatan peninsula in Mexico, leaving millions of people without power, water or telephone service, but causing few deaths before limping back into the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. A5

Iraqi Leaders Press Donors
Officials in Iraq pressed a major meeting of donor nations in Jordon for billions of dollars in new financing to repair a country that remains in a state of physical and economic collapse. A6

NATIONAL A14-18

Bush Vows Firing if an Aide 'Committed a Crime'
Faced with growing questions about the role of his close adviser, Karl Rove, in the C.I.A. leak case, President Bush said he would fire any member of his staff who ''committed a crime.'' A1

N.R.A. Cancels Ohio Gathering
Looking to punish Columbus for enacting a ban on assault weapons, the National Rifle Association canceled plans to hold its national convention there in 2007, an event that was expected to pump more than $15 million into the local economy. A14

Detainee Trials to Resume
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said the war crimes trials of two detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that were suspended would resume ''as soon as possible.'' Trials will also move forward quickly in the cases of two others who have been charged with war crimes, the Pentagon announced. A14

Governors Assail New ID Law
The nation's governors told the secretary of homeland security that the new law expanding the role of state motor vehicle departments to include national security responsibilities was presenting enormous financial and logistical challenges. A18

$280 Billion Sought in Suit
The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court for the legal authority once again to seek $280 billion in damages from the tobacco industry in a lawsuit that has become a growing political liability for the Bush administration. A18

Bush on Fast Clip for Justice
Administration officials said President Bush's selection process for a Supreme Court nominee was moving far faster than they expected, a signal that there could be a candidate within the next few days. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

As Medicaid Grows, Fewer Guard It From Fraud
A yearlong New York Times investigation found only a thin, overburdened security force standing between New York's Medicaid program and the unending attempts to steal from it. Even as program spending has more than tripled since the late 1980's, the number of fraud investigators who guard its cash register has fallen by half. A1

Social Promotion for 7th Grade
Mayor Bloomberg, boasting that his threat to hold back failing third and fifth graders had spurred record increases in reading and math scores, said he would extend the policy ending social promotion to seventh graders. B1

Officer Killed in Newark
A Newark school police officer was shot and killed by one of two assailants who drove up as the officer and his partner were trying to to break up a fight between two girls outside a high school in the troubled south ward, the authorities said. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B7-8

Gen. William C. Westmoreland
General who commanded the United States forces in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968, overseeing the vast troop buildup and the height of the fighting, he was 91. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Pacemakers Recalled
The Guidant Corporation, already embroiled in controversy over recalls of heart devices, alerted doctors that nine of its older pacemaker models were prone to failure and that some patients might need to have the units replaced. C1

Visa Drops CardSystems
Visa USA said it would stop allowing CardSystems Solutions to process transactions, months after the company left the records of millions of cardholders at risk from fraud. Cardholders and merchants should not be affected by the change. C1

Iacocca Sounds Off
Lee A. Iacocca, the 80-year-old former Chrysler chairman who is promoting Chrysler's cars in three new commercials, offers his views on the domestic industry and its weakest giant, General Motors. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: A jar of red herrings; failing to teach in high school; Governor Pataki and women's rights.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Weather B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FIREARMS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); POWER FAILURES (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); WAR CRIMES (73%); GUN CONTROL (73%); HURRICANES (71%); GOVERNORS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); TRADE DISPUTES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); GREGORY C CASE (54%); MANMOHAN SINGH (54%); KARL ROVE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); INDIA (93%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); CUBA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



376 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Weighs Effects of Oil

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18 

 BODY:
High oil prices could crimp economic growth this year but not derail it, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, suggested in a letter that lawmakers released Monday.
 Mr. 
Greenspan said the rise in oil prices since the end of 2003 probably cut economic growth around three-quarters of a percentage point this year after reducing growth about one-half point last year.
Mr. Greenspan said, ''Aside from these 'headwinds,' the U.S. economy seems to be coping pretty well with the run-up in crude oil prices.''
 Mr. Greenspan's thoughts on oil were contained in a letter to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. The letter provided his written responses to questions that were submitted to him after his June 9 appearance before the panel. 
 Mr. Greenspan said higher inflation spurred by rising energy prices had reduced households' purchasing power and slowed spending. Businesses, he said, ''seem to have reassessed the profitability of some investment projects in the light of significantly higher energy costs.''
 Oil prices, which surged to a daily closing high of $61.28 a barrel in early July, are hovering above $57 a barrel. Gas prices last week set a record of $2.33 a gallon nationwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



377 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: For Some, the Tax Cut on Investment Income Is Not as Sweet as Advertised 

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Millions of investors who bought dividend-paying stocks after President Bush persuaded Congress to lower the taxes on investments to 15 percent are paying a lot more, in some cases almost 50 percent more, two new analyses show.
 The cause is the alternative minimum tax, a parallel income tax that was originally aimed at the richest taxpayers but is affecting an increasing number of Americans and denying them at least part of the Bush administration's tax cuts.
Until 2003, dividends were taxed at the same rates as wages, as high as 35 percent for some taxpayers. But the alternative minimum tax can subject taxpayers who make less than $382,000 (roughly the threshold for the top 1 percent income class) to an effective tax rate on dividends and capital gains of 22 percent. The higher rate can affect some taxpayers making as little as $75,000. 
 John Buckley, the chief tax lawyer for Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee, argued in an article published yesterday in Tax Notes, a weekly nonprofit journal of tax policy, that this denial of promised tax relief was not a mistake, but part of a calculated Republican strategy dating back to at least 1996. The article is also posted at www .taxanalysts.com. ''The use of the A.M.T. to reduce the cost of recent tax cuts clearly is the most consequential of the many budget gimmicks we have seen in recent years,'' Mr. Buckley, who opposes most of Mr. Bush's tax policies, wrote.
 ''The 1997, 2001 and 2003 tax cuts are remarkably similar in one respect,'' he wrote. ''They used the A.M.T. to limit the benefits provided to middle-income and moderately wealthy taxpayers to provide the greatest benefits to the very wealthy.''
 The Treasury Department, speaking for the White House, issued a statement on Friday calling Mr. Buckley's analysis ''absurd.''
 Taxpayers affected by the alternative minimum tax can lose tax deductions for state and local taxes, exemptions for themselves and dependents and even the standard deduction. In place of those deductions, the tax law approved in 2003 allowed taxpayers who are married and filing jointly to exempt the first $58,000 of income and smaller amounts for heads of households and single taxpayers. (Those exemptions are to fall to $45,000 for married taxpayers and $33,750 for single ones this year unless Congress acts.)
 But the exemption is subject to income limits, then begins to phase out at a rate of 25 cents for each dollar. The phaseout begins when married taxpayers filing jointly make more than $150,000, when taxpayers who are single make more than $112,500 and when a spouse filing separately makes $75,000. Once taxpayers who are married and filing jointly make $382,000, they lose their entire exemption. Single taxpayers lose their exemption at $273,500. 
 Once the married taxpayers make more than $150,000, any additional income, including dividends, reduces their exemption by 25 percent, leading to the higher effective tax rate on their investments.
 Married taxpayers who make more than $382,000 get the promised 15 percent rate. Mr. Buckley's finding was confirmed by the Institute for Research on the Economics of Taxation, a nonprofit group in Washington allied with the White House in seeking to eliminate taxes on dividends, capital gains and other income that is not from wages.
 Stephen J. Entin, the institute's president, ordered his own analysis in response to questions. He concluded that many investors lose 7 percent to 38 percent of their promised tax relief to the alternative minimum tax. Mr. Entin said that denial of the full tax relief promised to investors ''poisons the tax cut.'' 
 By 2010, several estimates show, the alternative tax will bring in so much money that repealing it would cost more than repealing the regular income tax. Families with two or more children are 30 times more likely than single people to lose part of the Bush tax cuts to the alternative tax, according to studies by the Tax Policy Center, a nonprofit research organization in Washington. Homeowners are far more likely to be affected than renters.
 Mr. Buckley said the rapidly growing reach of the alternative minimum tax was not a result of inflation, as official government reports and many politicians have stated.
 ''In materials submitted to the President's Advisory Panel on Tax Reform, the Treasury Department suggested that the increase in the number of A.M.T. taxpayers is due to the lack of inflation adjustments in the A.M.T. and, to a lesser extent, real growth in income,'' Mr. Buckley wrote. ''The Treasury Department made no mention of the contribution that the recent tax cuts have played.''
 He wrote that ''the Tax Foundation (a conservative group that has been a consistent supporter of lower taxes) is far more objective in its analysis.'' He quoted its finding: ''A far more important factor causing the A.M.T.'s recent expansion is the effect of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. Ironically, by reducing regular income tax liabilities without substantially changing the A.M.T., the Bush tax cuts would be responsible for most of the expansion of the A..M.T. through 2011.''
 The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation found that ''approximately 60 percent of the A.M.T. liabilities in the future are due to the 2001 tax cut,'' Mr. Buckley wrote.
 He added that ''a substantial portion'' of the remaining alternative tax effect was related to the 1997 Tax Act. Sponsored by Republicans and signed by Bill Clinton, it lowered capital gains taxes and created a child credit for many middle-class parents, but denied it to millions more.
 Mr. Buckley also wrote that the marriage penalty relief in the 2001 Bush tax cuts was illusory, saying that ''it merely changed the name of the tax imposing the penalty'' from the regular income tax to the alternative. 
 ''The current broad reach of the A.M.T. is not accidental as some suggest,'' he wrote. ''The fine print of the A.M.T. has been consistently and deliberately used to reduce the budgetary costs of the tax reductions promised in the much advertised big print of recent tax legislation.'' 
 In his 2001 tax cut, Mr. Bush made no provision for alternative tax relief, which was inserted at the insistence of Congress. The president has yet to propose any form of permanent alternative tax relief or repeal, but has instead said that it should be done as part of wholesale overhaul of the tax system.
 Taylor Griffin, a Treasury spokesman, said: ''The president's tax cuts were designed to provide tax relief to all Americans and to stimulate economic growth. That's exactly what they did and continue to do.'' 
 He added that Mr. Buckley's assertion that the alternative levy was a sleight-of-hand to focus tax cuts on the highest-income Americans ''is absurd,'' and said that ''the administration is as concerned as anyone about the growth of the A.M.T. and its effect on taxpayers.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on July 19 about the effect of the alternative minimum tax on investors who own dividend-paying stocks referred imprecisely to tax rates on dividends, which until 2003 were the same as for wages. The maximum rate was 38.6 percent in 2002, not 35.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (79%); BUDGETS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); BONDS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%) Taxation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Alternative Minimum Tax; Stocks and Bonds; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



378 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Rally Stalls After Citigroup Reports Weak Earnings

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street's rally skidded to a halt yesterday after weaker-than-expected earnings from Citigroup raised questions about second-quarter results at other companies, but a drop in oil prices limited the market's decline.
 Citigroup's profit punctured some of the optimism that lifted stocks last week. The company, the nation's largest financial institution, said challenging market conditions, especially in its fixed-income trading, left it with earnings 5 cents below Wall Street expectations.
 ''Citigroup got the market off to a bad start,'' said John C. Forelli, portfolio manager for Independence Investment in Boston. ''Investors are preprogrammed for companies to beat expectations.'' 
 The price of oil fell $1 a barrel in morning trading after OPEC lowered its 2005 global demand forecast. A barrel of light, sweet crude oil settled at $57.32, down 77 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 65.84, or 0.62 percent, to 10,574.99. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.79, or 0.55 percent, to 1,221.13, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 11.91, or 0.6 percent, to 2,144.87.
 Although earnings are dominating the market this week, traders are also waiting for the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to deliver his much-anticipated semiannual testimony on monetary policy before Congress tomorrow and Thursday.
 In a letter to Congress dated July 11 and reported by Dow Jones, the Fed chairman said the economy was dealing ''pretty well'' with high energy prices. Analysts expect Mr. Greenspan to stress that the economy continues to show solid gains and that inflation remains subdued. He is not expected to hint that the Fed will pause in raising interest rates.
 Bonds dropped sharply on news of Mr. Greenspan's letter, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.22 percent from 4.16 percent late Friday.
 In stocks, Citigroup fell $1.42, to $45. Its disappointing earnings contrasted with those of Bank of America, which released results that beat analysts' expectations by 5 cents a share. But Bank of America fell 90 cents, to $45.08, as investors focused on declining profit margins from loans.
 Earnings for MBNA, the world's largest credit card issuer, beat analysts' expectations, but the company said the bulk of its cash volume growth for the quarter came from new cards with low introductory rates that could reduce future margins. MBNA fell 37 cents, to $25.85.
 Tobacco stocks fell after the Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to let it seek $280 billion in past profits from cigarette makers, after an appeals court said the government could not seek the money. The Altria Group fell 74 cents, to $65.91; British American Tobacco fell 17 cents, to $37.58; and the Imperial Tobacco Group fell 44 cents, to $51.67.
 The Guidant Corporation warned physicians that replacements might be needed for nine pacemaker models made between 1997 and 2000, of which some 28,000 remain implanted in patients worldwide. The announcement was the latest bad news from Guidant, which last month recalled almost 109,000 implanted defibrillators. Its stock fell $2.10, to $67.31.
 The Scholastic Corporation said a record 6.9 million new Harry Potter books sold in the first 24 hours of United States sales. Scholastic rose 28 cents, to $37.34.
 The appliance maker Maytag rose $2.03, to $17.48, after Whirlpool offered to buy it for $1.36 billion in cash and stock, topping an earlier offer Maytag had accepted from an investment group. Whirlpool rose $3.32, to $73.31.
 These are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.186	98.271	High Rate	3.220	3.420	Investment Rate	3.292	3.529	Low Rate	3.170	3.380	Median Rate	3.205	3.405	Total applied for	$42,242,259	$37,162,082	Accepted	$25,168,209	$22,284,877	Noncompetitive	$1,802,676	$1,312,381	

Both issues are dated July 21, 2005. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 20, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 19, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); CREDIT CARDS (62%); TOBACCO MFG (61%); APPEALS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (80%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (51%); IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); MO (NYSE) (80%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (51%); BTI (JSE) (51%); BATS (LSE) (51%); IMT (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (80%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



379 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: 3M Posts Small Profit Increase

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The 3M Company said yesterday that it had its smallest quarterly profit gain in three years, hurt by a drop in sales of film used to brighten computer and cellphone screens.
 Second-quarter net income at 3M rose less than 1 percent, to $776 million, or $1 a share, from $773 million, or 97 cents, a year earlier. Sales climbed 5.6 percent, to $5.29 billion, with 3.5 percentage points coming from currency gains. International sales rose 6.3 percent in the quarter, helped by currency gains. 
Excluding $75 million in costs to repatriate $1.7 billion of foreign earnings, 3M would have earned $1.09 a share. On that basis, earnings matched the average forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. Sales also matched estimates.
 Sales and profit increased at all of 3M's businesses except display and graphics, where sales fell 2.3 percent, to $864 million. The profit decline accelerated to 11 percent, from 2.7 percent in the first quarter.
 Sales in the health care business, 3M's biggest, rose 6.1 percent, to $1.11 billion. Profit at the unit, which makes stethoscopes, orthodontics and Aldara skin-cancer cream, jumped 13 percent.
 Sales in the safety and security unit, which makes reflective materials and products that prevent the counterfeiting of currency, rose 9.5 percent. Revenue at the industrial unit, whose products include sandpaper and fiber optic cable assemblies, increased 6.9 percent. The consumer and office products business had a sales increase of 8.9 percent.
 Shares closed 92 cents lower yesterday, or 1.2 percent, at $74.53.
 3M's products include Scotchgard fabric protector, Post-it Notes, circuitry for electronics, traffic signs, facial recognition software and cleaning supplies. It is considered an economic bellwether because of its broad product line.
 The company narrowed its full-year profit forecast on expectations that growth in the United States and elsewhere would push up sales. It now expects profit, excluding special items, to rise to $4.20 to $4.25 a share from the previous guidance of $4.15 to $4.25. Third-quarter profit will be $1.06 to $1.08 a share, it said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (72%); BIOMETRICS (65%); SKIN CANCER (53%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: 3M CO (97%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Threem (3m) Co

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (97%); MMM (NYSE) (97%); MMM (FRA) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (97%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (97%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2005



380 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: How Effective Is This Ad, In Real Numbers? Beats Me

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE results of a survey scheduled to be released today at a conference sponsored by the Association of National Advertisers bring to mind the familiar Mark Twain remark about the weather: Everyone complains about the inability to determine the return on investment from advertising spending, but no one seems satisfied with what is being done about it.
 The conference is the most recent in a skein of meetings sponsored by the association, the trade organization for the nation's largest marketers, focusing on advertising accountability. Senior marketers are increasingly intent on figuring out what they are doing right -- and wrong -- as the cost of peddling goods and services climbs each year, along with the difficulty of reaching potential customers.
''The efficiency and effectiveness of marketing in generating growth and building brand equity'' is the issue that members tell the association ''is No.1 in their minds,'' said Barbara Bacci Mirque, senior vice president at the association, which is based in New York. 
 So ''we're going to discuss it,'' she added, ''till our members say it's not important to them.''
 The conference, formally titled the 2005 Marketing Accountability Forum, is to begin this morning with a general session at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Midtown Manhattan. To underline what it considers to be the importance of the conference, the association is also promoting it to members of the trade group that represents the agencies that marketers work with, the American Association of Advertising Agencies. 
 The survey was conducted in April by the advertiser association and two partners, Marketing Management Analytics, part of the Aegis Group, and Forrester Research. In telephone interviews this week, Ms. Mirque and executives from Marketing Management Analytics offered a preview of some survey results.
 For instance, 61.5 percent of the survey respondents said it was important to them to define, measure and take concrete steps in the area of advertising accountability. But only 19 percent said they were satisfied with their ability to take those steps.
 And 73 percent of respondents were not confident that they understood the effects that an advertising or marketing campaign could have on sales. When asked if they agreed with the statement, ''I would be able to forecast the impact on sales'' of a 10 percent cut in marketing spending, 63 percent said no.
 Back in the day, ''marketing had a rock-star mentality, able to do what it wanted,'' said Ed See, executive vice president and chief operating officer at Marketing Management, which is based in Wilton, Conn.
 ''But we're not living in a rock 'n' roll world anymore,'' he added. ''Elvis has left the building.''
 A primary reason for the change, Mr. See said, is what he called the ''halo effect'' of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, centered on the difference the law is making in the way top managers run companies.
 ''Marketers were able to do what they wanted because they were given a bye from a corporate governance aspect by the C-suite,'' Mr. See said, using the shorthand term for leaders like chief executives. ''But now,'' he added, ''the C-suite sees marketing as the last bastion of uncontrolled spending, and it's being viewed as a risk, a financial risk.''
 ''It's the old story of the C.E.O. who asks the chief marketing officer, 'What happens if I take 10 percent out of the marketing budget?' and the C.M.O. replies, 'I don't know,''' Mr. See said, ''so the C.E.O. says: 'O.K., I'll take 20 percent.'''
 John Nardone, executive vice president and chief client officer at Marketing Management, said the survey showed that it was more important than ever for advertisers to give their marketing departments the types of controls, models and ''repeatable processes'' they use in areas like supply-chain management and human resources.
 ''Marketers are tracking all kinds of data and they still can't answer basic questions'' about advertising accountability, Mr. Nardone said, ''because they don't have real models and metrics by which to make sense of it.''
 Mr. Nardone and Mr. See are to discuss the survey at the conference, along with Jim Nail, principal analyst at Forrester.
 Among the other scheduled speakers are: Joseph Auriemma, director for global business services at Procter & Gamble; Robert DeSena, director for relationship marketing at the Masterfoods USA division of Mars; Lawrence Flanagan, chief marketing officer at MasterCard International; Robert D. Liodice, president and chief executive at the advertiser association; Kate Sirkin, executive vice president and global research director at the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe; and Susan St. George, director for marketing operations at General Electric.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); BRANDING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SALES PROSPECTING (75%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BRAND EQUITY (68%) Advertising and Marketing; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: AEGIS GROUP PLC (66%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%) Association of National Advertisers; Aegis Group Plc; Forrester Research

TICKER: AGS (LSE) (66%); H (NYSE) (54%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (66%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



381 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: The Rural War

BYLINE: By Robert Cushing and Bill Bishop. 
Robert Cushing is a retired University of Texas sociologist. Bill Bishop, a reporter for The Austin (Tex.) American-Statesman, is writing a book on political segregation.

DATELINE: Austin,Tex. 

 BODY:
WHICH American communities pay the highest price for the war in Iraq? A look at the demographics of soldiers killed reveals that Iraq is not the war of any one race or region. Rather, it is rural America's war. 
 Altogether, a nearly equal percentage of Americans aged 18 to 54 live in counties with a million or more inhabitants as live in counties of 100,000 or fewer. And yet, of the soldiers who have died in Iraq, 342 came from densely populated counties while 536 came from smaller ones. Derived from Pentagon and census data, the chart above shows the Iraqi war death rates for every 100,000 people ages 18 to 54 by the size of their county's population. 
 The difference is visible not just in the size of a soldier's county of origin, but also in its location. Counties disconnected from urban areas tend to have higher death rates, regardless of population size. Small rural counties have a death rate nearly twice that of counties that have the same population but happen to be part of metropolitan areas. 
 Why should this be? It's not that Iraqi insurgents are singling out rural soldiers, or that commanders are putting them at particular risk. Rather, the armed forces themselves must be disproportionately drawn from rural communities -- a fact not immediately discernible from recruitment data, which report the race, age and education of recruits, but not their home counties. 
 This is above all an economics story. Military studies consistently find that a poor economy is a boon to recruiting. The higher rate of deaths from rural counties likely reflects sparse opportunities for young people in those places.
 When the Iraq war memorials go up in years to come, these monuments to heroism and sacrifice will be found less often in thriving urban centers than in lagging rural communities.


GRAPHIC: Diagram tracks death rates by county population. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CENSUS (71%) 

PERSON: Robert Cushing; Bill Bishop

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



382 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: China's Military Geared to Deterring Taiwan, Report Says

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
China is modernizing its military and emphasizing preparations ''to fight and win short-duration, high-intensity conflicts'' over Taiwan, the Pentagon said Tuesday with the release of its annual report on Chinese military power.
 With military spending that has grown by double digit rates since the mid-1990's, China ''appears focused on preventing Taiwan independence or trying to compel Taiwan to negotiate a settlement on Beijing's terms,'' the report said.
 This political and military pressure on Taiwan may run counter to American national security interests -- and to American calls for a peaceful, negotiated resolution of the Taiwan question. But China has not yet built the military power to have full confidence it can achieve its political objectives regarding Taiwan. 
 Beijing's conventional forces also are not deemed capable of threatening American territory, as ''China's ability to project conventional military power beyond its periphery remains limited,'' the report stated.
 At the same time, it cautioned that China was both modernizing and expanding its arsenal of nuclear missiles capable of reaching the territory of the United States.
 The 45-page, unclassified report trumpets both warning and welcome upon China's arrival as a global superpower.
 The United States is eager for ''a peaceful and prosperous China, one that becomes integrated as a constructive member of the international community,'' the report stated. ''But, we see a China facing a strategic crossroads. Questions remain about the basic choices China's leaders will make as China's power and influence grow, particularly its military power.''
 The report has been considered especially sensitive within the administration. It is being published just days before China is to be the host of the first multinational nuclear talks with North Korea in more than a year -- a critical diplomatic initiative that President Bush cannot afford to jeopardize.
 Washington and Beijing are also in a delicate dance on a variety of economic issues, such as when and whether China should stop linking its currency with the dollar, a critical issue for the trade deficit with China.
 The report, scheduled for release to Congress this spring, was delayed as rough edges were smoothed by a series of debates and editing sessions with the Pentagon, the State Department, the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council.
 The president discussed China on Tuesday, detailing the complexities of dealing with a nation that is a rival and a partner. ''It is a complicated relationship,'' he said, describing how many American farmers depend on sales to China, and how the country's growth has benefited the American economy. But he cautioned that ''we've got areas of issues when it comes to values.''
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld described the report as ''a very factual presentation,'' but there was no escaping the political context into which it was released.
 Mr. Rumsfeld said the relationship with China had been improving since the early months of the administration, when a Chinese fighter collided with a Navy surveillance plane in international airspace, forcing the American craft to crash-land.
 While renewed port calls have improved military-to-military communications, ''there are bumps in the road,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said, a reference to reports in recent days that a Chinese general threatened the United States with a nuclear attack if the United States attacked China during a Taiwan crisis.
 Mr. Rumsfeld said that if ''the political system gives'' and China chooses ''a relatively free political and a relatively free economic system, then that would be a good thing for the world. And time will tell.''
 According to the report, China's military modernization has included an estimated 650 to 730 mobile, short-range ballistic missiles deployed opposite Taiwan, as well as the acquisition of jet-fighters from Russia. China also has deployed its first two Russian-built guided missile destroyers; two more are under contract for delivery, even as China is increasing the size of its submarine fleet.
 Although those submarines are far less sophisticated than their American counterparts, Pentagon analysts note that increases in the Chinese fleet pose a critical challenge to the Navy: American carriers responding to a crisis could have to operate hundreds of miles farther from Taiwan, reducing the number of fighter sorties they could launch until the Chinese submarines were subdued.
 Administration officials said parts of the report were intended as a subtle reminder to Taiwan. Many administration officials are concerned that the Taiwanese are increasingly using their relationship with Washington as a shield against the Chinese military buildup. New weapons programs -- many using technology sold by American firms -- have been languishing in Taiwan's parliament. The report strongly suggests that Taiwan must take a greater role in building up its own defenses, an argument that the Taiwanese often say is a cover for American efforts to increase military sales.
 The report also complains that China's military budget is so opaque, with much of the spending hidden in other accounts, that it ''precludes significant outside analysis.'' Although noting that the analysis is imperfect, the report states that ''the defense sector in China could receive up to $90 billion in 2005,'' the third largest military spending figure in the world, after the United States, which budgets more than four times that figure, and Russia.
 Administration officials said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice previewed the report for Chinese leaders during her visit to Beijing this month. She told them, officials said, that the report showed the need for greater transparency about China's military activities, including its joint military exercises with Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US TERRITORIES (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); CURRENCIES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) United States International Relations; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; International Relations

PERSON: Thom Shanker; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) China; Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



383 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Columbus Ave. Distances Itself From Broadway

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
Perhaps Columbus Avenue in the West 70's should be called the anti-Broadway, for its recently rising fortunes seem linked to the healthy, even haughty, retail distance it maintains from its thronged rival a couple of blocks to the west.
 As Broadway becomes the Upper West Side's shopping mall (punctuated by double doses of Gaps, Barnes & Nobles and, soon, Banana Republics along 20 blocks stretching northward from the high 60's), Columbus Avenue's lower rents and modestly sized spaces are drawing smaller but higher-end national and local retailers.
 The newcomers -- including the modern-furniture chain Design Within Reach, the cosmetics purveyor Clarins and the men's clothier Beau Brummel -- augment an existing cache of upscale specialty stores including Eileen Fisher, Theory and Lucky Brand Jeans, home of $100 torn denim. 
 ''The area is attracting higher-end retailers who don't need to have the foot traffic,'' said Alan Napack, director of retail services at the commercial brokerage firm Cushman & Wakefield, while ''a lot of big-volume chains would rather be on Broadway.'' 
 Not so for the retailers flocking to Columbus or expanding their stores there. Many of their best customers are well-educated, fiscally fortunate neighborhood residents who want to avoid a fumy run down that Other Street.
 ''I hate Broadway. I think it's loud, obnoxious and commercial,'' said Lisa Kaufmann, a fitting archetype for the avenue's weekday denizen, which skews upwardly mobile, unstarched and female. Having quit her prosecutor's job, the 34-year-old mother of a 6-month-old was shopping for ''clothes for being a mom'' at a newly opened outpost of Pookie & Sebastian near West 75th Street. 
 ''I like the feeling on Columbus,'' she said, gesturing through the windows at the bright, moderately trafficked streetscape. ''It's chic enough but still down to earth, and you don't have the snobbery you have in some other places.''
 Roslyn Grant, proprietor of Roslyn, a five-year-old upscale jewelry and hat store on the southwest corner of West 73rd Street, agreed that the shoppers do not fit the Madison Avenue mold. ''I think they are much more content and friendly, always walking with coffee and ice cream,'' she said. Her customers' preferences lean toward individual and casual, she noted, an apt description of the mix of stores here.
 Newcomers to the increasingly prosperous stretch may be surprised to learn that in 2000, retailers from 72nd to 82nd Streets formed the Columbus Avenue Business Improvement District with the goal of bringing the area back to the heyday it experienced in the 70's and 80's.
 Fashion-forward stores like Charivari, now defunct, as well as a smattering of popular restaurants ushered in the first wave of gentrification, said Barbara Adler, the group's executive director. But under the one-two punch of a recession followed by an extensive yearlong street reconstruction project begun in 1994, more than 20 businesses shut down. 
 Since then, a more prosperous economy and an influx of wealthier residents with a taste for the eclectic have helped to revive the avenue's fortunes, albeit not enough, apparently, for the largest national retailers.
 Last fall, the Gap closed two stores on opposite corners of 76th Street (Design Within Reach took one space, while Chase Manhattan Bank has spoken for the other). Farther south at West 69th Street, Banana Republic is making plans to decamp for bigger quarters on Broadway where Eddie Bauer currently resides, within easy bag-toting distance of Pottery Barn, Barnes & Noble, Bed Bath & Beyond and Gap.
 Stacey Pecor, owner of the women's fashion boutique Olive & Bette's, which recently doubled its space just south of West 72nd Street, is not concerned. ''They'll shop the Gap for basics and put on the frosting on Columbus Avenue,'' she said. 
 As high-end boutiques edge out aging Indian restaurants and replace worn storefronts with manicured gloss, businesses like Pioneer Supermarket -- its 50's-era yellow brick facade stretching nearly half a block between 73rd and 74th -- would seem an endangered species. 
 The store has thrived, however, in the shifting demographic tide. Three decades ago, most business came from the neighborhood's Hispanic residents, who were hearty grocery shoppers, recalled Anthony Scerri, Pioneer's manager for 31 years. They were gradually replaced, he said, by ''yuppies'' who shopped for smaller amounts, buying only what they needed that day. 
 Fortunately for Pioneer, the yuppies brought housekeepers. ''The housekeepers have carte blanche, they have a credit card and they don't look at the prices,'' he said, adding that they pile their carts ''because they don't want to come in every day.''
 Down the street, Robert K. Futterman, chairman and chief executive of the Robert K. Futterman & Associates commercial brokerage firm, stopped in to Angelo's Shoe Repair for a shoeshine before checking out a potential space for a client. Afterward, he paused near his chauffeured black Mercedes to speculate about the next wave of retail tenants.
 ''Jeans are a really hot category,'' he said. ''The skin-care niche is really hot, too.'' He pointed at the run-down facade of a corner dry cleaners. ''You wonder, are the mom-and-pop service-oriented businesses going to move to the side streets?''
 Doug Kleiman, director of the commercial brokerage firm JBA Inc., said, ''It's an interesting shuffle to see who can afford higher rents.'' He pegged prices at $150 to $180 a square foot, about 20 percent higher than two years ago. ''Banks and national retailers have been one of the strongest reasons prices have been going up, and particularly the banks.'' 
 As skyrocketing rents on Broadway send chefs looking for alternate spots, restaurants are opening on Columbus. In the spring, Gari, the West Side outpost of Sushi of Gari on the Upper East Side, opened on Columbus near West 78th, where one can spend $180 on an exquisite meal for two and still feel ravenous.
 Near West 71st on a site formerly occupied by a cut-rate florist, a wine bar, Bin 71, opened in May to lively, well-heeled evening crowds who seemed pleased to find a SoHo-style watering hole in a space that once held watering cans. With doors that can open entirely to the avenue, the intimate bar seduces casual strollers who want to stay connected with the street while savoring designer wines.
 Broadway's hectic thrum seems very far away.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Randolph, left, jewelry shopping at Roslyn, helped by the owner, Roslyn Grant, center, and Alicia Lee. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); FURNITURE STORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%); COSMETICS (69%) Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior; Restaurants; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

PERSON: Teri Karush Rogers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



384 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Permits for New Housing Beat Expectations 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19 

 BODY:
Housing starts were flat in June but permits for future construction shot higher, indicating that groundbreaking could increase in the months ahead, the Commerce Department reported on Tuesday.
 ''The housing sector remains very strong,'' said David Resler, the chief economist at Nomura Securities International in New York. 
''Building permits are strong, and it's more encouraging news for the general economy.''
A separate report showed retail sales at chain stores rose in the latest week.
 The Commerce Department said June housing starts came in at an annual pace of 2.004 million units, unchanged from May, when starts were revised down from an originally reported 2.009 million pace. Wall Street economists had expected housing starts to increase to a 2.045 million pace in June. 
 Single-family housing starts dropped 2.5 percent, to an annual pace of 1.667 million units. But that was offset by multifamily starts, which rose 14.2 percent, to a 337,000 pace, the report said. Permits for groundbreaking, an indicator of builder confidence, rose 2.4 percent, to a 2.111 million unit pace. That exceeded expectations for an increase to an annual pace of 2.080 million units in June from a 2.062 million pace in May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING STARTS (93%); BUILDING PERMITS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); RETAILERS (75%); RETAIL SALES (70%) Housing; Housing Starts

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



385 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Urban Migrants; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: A Housing Boom Brings Jobs and, Sometimes, Abuse 

BYLINE: By ROBEN FARZAD

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Eight years ago, Sister Margaret Rose Smyth had to go out of her way to find illegal immigrants who might need her help, listening for Spanish conversations at the Kmart on the North Fork of Long Island. 
 Now every day, Sister Margaret, a Roman Catholic nun who is the director of the North Fork Spanish Apostolate, typically sees off two early-morning buses filled with laborers seeking work along the Long Island Expressway, giving them business tips and moral support.
By the time her workday ends 12 hours later, she has met with scores of other workers seeking her advice on everything from alcoholism and burial arrangements to documents and wages.
 ''The housing and construction boom has more people working,'' Sister Margaret said, noting that now she sees 1,000 immigrants from Mexico and Central America, most of them undocumented, at church each week. 
 ''Somebody made it to Riverhead and got the word out,'' she said. 
 Indeed, the housing boom, with its promise of consistent and better-paying work, has in the last five years attracted undocumented laborers not just to Long Island, but also to hot housing markets across the country -- among them the areas around Chicago; Washington; Freehold, N.J.; Raleigh, N.C.; and Jupiter, Fla. 
 But unlike the agricultural work that traditionally drew immigrant laborers to little-populated areas of the country, construction labor is conspicuously in the heart of the suburbs, with laborers gathering in Home Depot parking lots, outside convenience stores and on street corners. 
 Many are remaining in the suburbs afterward to do landscaping, painting, kitchen renovations and other home improvement work. 
 In the process, longtime residents are being forced to confront the issue of illegal immigration as never before, dotting the national map with dozens of new battlefronts in the debate on workers living in the United States without legal status.
 While the nature of illegal immigration makes exact numbers hard to come by, the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research organization, estimates that the unauthorized migrant population jumped by 25 percent from 2000 to 2004, to at least 10.3 million. About 20 to 25 percent of the entire construction work force in this country, the center estimated, is undocumented. 
 Abel Valenzuela Jr., a professor of urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has canvassed more than 80 worker sites nationwide, estimates that 75 to 85 percent of all day labor is in home construction, repair and landscaping. 
 ''The housing boom and construction is driving the day labor issue into the suburbs,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research organization that favors tighter immigration controls. The growing presence of illegal immigrants has been burden on local hospitals and schools and is ''sparking political activism at the local level,'' he said. ''Until now,'' he added, ''there hasn't been enough of a catalyst to get local people speaking out.'' 
 But Rakesh Kochhar, associate director for research at the Pew Hispanic Center, said that it would be unfair to characterize illegal immigrants as a drain on society, noting that many of them pay taxes but are ineligible for government services. Moreover, he said, they contribute to a critical sector of the economy. ''Construction day laborers are responding to a demand, and definitely filling a need,'' he said. ''If you took away that labor force, I doubt it would have a positive effect.''
 Freehold, N.J. -- the subject of the Bruce Springsteen song ''My Hometown'' -- is one place the debate has surfaced, as local residents cope uneasily with the growing number of immigrant workers who seek construction and landscaping jobs in western Monmouth County.
 ''Freehold is being used as day labor central,'' said Marc LeVine, a former councilman in the blue-collar borough who founded Pressing Elected Officials to Protect Our Living Environment -- with the acronym People -- to campaign against illegal immigration. ''There's a culture clash and animosity toward not just the workers, but the wealthy people who demand the day labor.''
 Mr. LeVine estimates that Freehold is now home to at least 3,000 to 4,000 illegal immigrants, a significant fraction of the borough's recognized population of 11,000 people who were counted in the 2000 census. That off-the-books population increase, Mr. LeVine said, has strained schools and hospitals and driven up taxes. ''Nobody is sending us money to help us with these costs,'' he said. ''This cannot be a free-for-all.''
 Accordingly, Freehold has become a nationally recognized hot spot in the immigration debate. In April, the United Patriots of America, a group that recruits what it calls minutemen to locate and report illegal immigrants, was blocked by protesters from holding a meeting in Freehold. When it tried to reconvene at a nearby sports arena in June, dozens of protesters showed up. Police in SWAT gear stood by.
 One point of contention is the formalization and public financing of locations where day laborers gather to get employment from contractors who increasingly rely on them for spot work like painting, roofing and marble cutting. Advocates of immigrant rights are petitioning municipalities to pay for these formal hiring centers -- which may vary from a large tent with a portable toilet to an air-conditioned trailer to a whole building -- to address the complaints of loitering and littering and the danger of workers chasing after vans. 
 ''Day laborer sites are the visible face of the immigration issue,'' said Pablo Alvarado, a former day laborer who now runs the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, an umbrella organization for such work sites. ''One hundred men in the street is a very real thing.''
 But proponents of immigration control argue that formal hiring centers amount to an official sanctioning of illegal labor that will only draw more workers to an area, creating inevitable overflows and a return to street corner congregations. 
 In Jupiter, Fla., a popular destination for homeowners fleeing north from the sprawl of South Florida, construction permits have increased 50 percent in the last two years. Not coincidentally, so many day laborers have come to the area in recent years that the town is moving forward with plans for a municipally financed hiring center. 
 ''I call it an illegal hiring hall,'' said John Slattery, a mortgage broker who founded Jupiter Neighbors Against Illegal Labor in response to what he said has been an influx of 5,000 illegal immigrants over the last three years. ''We're talking about a sleepy little town here that now has an illegal barrio with drugs and gangs,'' he said. ''Now, the government wants to facilitate it instead of stopping it.''
 Similar debates are taking place in the Washington metropolitan area, where, according to the National Association of Realtors, the median price for a single-family home surged 22.7 percent into the first quarter of this year. A survey commissioned last year by Fairfax County in Northern Virginia found that at least 80 percent of the area's day laborers, not all of them illegal, were doing construction work.
 ''There's a boom in construction here and willing'' workers, said Gustavo Torres, who heads Casa de Maryland, a hiring site in another Washington suburb, Takoma Park, Md. ''It's a perfect match.''
 The county has reserved nearly $400,000 for at least three new day labor sites. In Herndon, Va., about 30 miles west of Washington, day laborers have been gathering in the parking lot of a local 7-Eleven store. Town officials are now considering a proposal for a formal site with restrooms, parking for contractors and even English classes and social services for men who do not get hired in the morning. 
 ''Our tax money should be used to protect our borders,'' said Dennis Baughan, a realtor and retired schoolteacher in Herndon who has organized a group of 150 residents opposed to the day laborer hiring centers. ''If you build a formal site it sends a message to Mexico and South America to show up.'' 
 Mr. Baughan said that he had observed the Casa de Maryland center numerous times. The site, he said, typically assists 70 laborers a day, but he said he had seen 500 men soliciting construction jobs on the streets surrounding it. ''That will happen here, too,'' he said. 
 The economic rewards of construction-related day labor are obvious. Workers who have known the instability of agricultural wages and tip-driven food delivery say they can clear $500 in cash on good weeks; higher-skilled laborers, like tile cutters and electricians, earn more. In addition, construction work often lasts for several weeks, and subcontractors tend to reward the best workers with repeat job offers. Mr. Alvarado said that while visiting gathering spots in the Chicago and Atlanta area, he saw police officers parking their cars in front of sites and ticketing laborers for jaywalking and littering. ''They basically do this to discourage the men from showing up,'' he said. ''Where are their civil rights?''
 A recent survey of day labor in the Washington area by the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles, found that more than half of workers questioned reported that they had been cheated out of wages and one-quarter reported being injured on a job. 
 Sister Margaret of the North Fork Spanish Apostolate said she has a ''logjam'' of cases of laborers not being paid. She carries a box of more than 40 reports of abuse, like a contractor who slaps his workers and bosses who deduct sums as ''taxes'' that they then pocket. 
 Sister Margaret says she worries that she is only seeing a fraction of the true total. ''Many of the men,'' she says, ''would rather tolerate abuse and injury than get deported.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A day laborer, above, part of a tide of immigrants in construction across the nation, worked on restoration of a home in Chicago. In New York, day laborers in the Jackson Heights section of Queens, below hoped for jobs that pay as little as $60 a day. (Photo by John Gress for The New York Times)
(Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Sister Margaret Rose Smyth, a Roman Catholic nun, helps immigrant workers on Long Island. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SUBURBS (86%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (85%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (74%); REFUGEES (73%); RELIGION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (70%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); HOME CENTERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); HOSPITALS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); RETAILERS (50%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%) Housing; Illegal Aliens; Immigration and Refugees; Building (Construction); Labor; Housing

PERSON: Roben Farzad

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



386 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Trenton: Agency Raises State's Credit Rating 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
New Jersey's finances got a boost yesterday as Standard & Poor's raised the state's credit ratings. The higher ratings mean the state can get better interest rates and save money when it borrows. The increase came a week after Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, above, spoke to Standard & Poor's and other firms about the state's new budget. Standard & Poor's increased its ratings one notch: general obligation debt improved to AA from AA-, and debt backed by annual appropriation increased to AA- from A+. The agency said New Jersey's $27.9 billion budget ''makes significant strides toward structural balance.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); BONDS (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%) Budgets and Budgeting; Credit; Finances

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Standard & Poor's Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Richard J (Acting Gov) Codey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



387 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Arts and Science Remake the Steel City 

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE H. O'TOOLE

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, July 19 

 BODY:
Though the steel mills here started to cool off more than 20 years ago, the city seemed slow to shed its rusty old skin. The opportunity to recast its polluted industrial waterfront as a high-tech hub and recreation destination took nearly two decades to emerge.
 ''We lost 146,000 manufacturing jobs, then replaced them with 168,000 education and medically related positions,'' said Michael E. Edwards, executive director of the Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership. Developers and the city have converted the shoreline within two miles of central Pittsburgh, allowing reuse of the industrial area.
The city's designation as host for the July 29-31 CITGO Bassmaster Classic, the world series of professional fishing, underscores its transformation. When participants take off from Point State Park where the Monongahela and Allegheny Rivers form the Ohio, they'll zoom through waters that support 50 species of fish. The Golden Triangle and its skyscrapers, new waterfront stadiums, and a vibrant fringe offering nearly three million square feet of new office space will be only a blur. 
 Development has accelerated over the last five years. On the North Shore, facing the downtown across the Allegheny River, home fields for the Pirates and Steelers flank new commercial construction. On the South Side, old steel mill sites along the Monongahela are host to a mix of retail, high-tech office space and housing. A revived downtown theater district and convention center have attracted night life and apartment living. 
 Despite those successes, office vacancy rates have hovered above 18 percent since mid-2004, and a move to revive retailing in the central business district has repeatedly failed. As the city struggles to emerge from a budget crisis that has cut municipal spending, support for redevelopment efforts along its riverbanks has come from local philanthropies, which have helped ready some former industrial sites for development and create consensus on design standards on the shoreline. University research and spin-off companies have moved into the new buildings.
 ''What is fabulous about the South Side and North Shore is that, effectively, those developments are occurring immediately adjacent to the core,'' said Aaron Stauber, managing director of Rugby Realty, a downtown developer since 1997. 
 The city's Urban Redevelopment Authority began its first rehabiliation of steel and coke works along the Monongahela in 1983, when the Pittsburgh Technology Center was proposed on a former Jones & Laughlin mill site. The research and industrial park capitalized on its proximity to Oakland, home of the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University. As the universities outgrew space for bioengineering and biotechnology operations, former steel making sites -- 48 acres on the northern bank, 35 acres on the South Side -- became logical expansion points. 
 Jeremy Kronman, executive vice president of CB Richard Ellis, who oversees asset leasing of redeveloped riverfront properties, sees the area as an extension of Oakland. ''Our technology and medical-based companies all revolve around Oakland, because of research brain power,'' he said. High-tech companies like Cellomics, Maya Design and Akustica, founded by university researchers, have joined the nonprofits. 
 Linked to the Technology Center by the Hot Metal Bridge, which carried molten steel across the Monongahela, the South Side Works is a $300 million mixed-use project developed by the Soffer Organization. Named for the former mill on the site owned by the steel maker LTV, it offers 675,000 square feet of Class A office space, housing, retailers and a 10-screen cinema. Two buildings are fully leased, with three more to open in 2005.
 Another 600,000 square feet developed for street-level retail and dining is 92 percent leased; an 18-story hotel, park and condominiums are planned. The project, between East Carson Street and a riverfront trail, flanks the McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine and the Sports Performance Center, both established by the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, and indoor and outdoor football practice fields used by the Pittsburgh Steelers and Pitt Panthers. 
 SEEC Inc., a software developer for financial and insurance clients, was lured to the area by the neighborhood's high-tech image. ''We need an environment where people are excited about being at work and going out after work,'' Shane Tulloch, chief executive of SEEC, said. He is relocating his 30-employee headquarters from an ''isolated'' airport corridor location to the South Side Works. ''There's a sense of vitality and beautiful surroundings, and everything's within walking distance.''
 A consortium of four local foundations is preparing LTV's former coke works, adjacent to the Technology Center in the Hazelwood section of the city, for similar mixed-use development. The Heinz Endowments and the R.K. Mellon, Benedum and McCune Foundations paid $10 million for 1.5 miles of waterfront to prevent piecemeal development. 
 ''A lot of our major foundations share a focus on economic development, urban design issues, and the health of the urban core,'' says Maxwell King, president of the Heinz Endowments, which has made $23.9 million in grants for riverfront improvement. A developer is now being sought for a 170-acre project Mr. King envisions as ''highest-end, new urbanist mixed use.'' A community plan calls for a marina, athletic fields, recreation trails, and office and retail space.
 Along the Allegheny River, traditionally the northern border of the central business zone, the Roberto Clemente Bridge spans professional sports and performing arts sites. 
 New stadiums -- Heinz Field for football, PNC Park for baseball -- opened in 2001 in walking distance of the downtown core, replacing Three Rivers Stadium. Public financing contributed $351 million to the projects; $429 million in private investment followed, including contributions from the teams. 
 Continental Real Estate is developing 16 acres between the fields. Equitable Resources moved its 400-employee headquarters to Continental's first 180,000-square-foot structure in March; a second building will be a regional office for Del Monte Foods, and a third is planned. 
 ''The city landed developments at the feet of bridges,'' says Jason Stewart, vice president of Grubb & Ellis and broker for Continental's speculative office space. There is a bridge ''between downtown and the north shore space between the stadiums.'' 
 The development's proximity to surface parking and highway ramps appealed to Equitable. ''We like the ease of access -- the highway infrastructure and the T,'' said David Spigelmyer, an Equitable spokesman, referring to a light-rail extension to downtown planned for 2009. A lawn with decorative pools; a landing for boats, kayaks and river taxis; and a riverfront trail extend green space to a promenade by the stadiums. Those developments were monitored by the Riverlife Task Force, a civic design advocate and watchdog. 
 The emphasis on green space has extended to green building. Pittsburgh now has more square footage, including its new convention center, built to national energy and sustainability standards than any other city in the nation, according to Rebecca Flora, executive director of the city's Green Building Alliance. 
 Downtown housing has followed the growth of the cultural district, anchored by three grand old theaters along Penn Avenue and a new one designed by Michael Graves. With 325 nights of performance annually by the Pittsburgh Symphony, Pittsburgh Opera, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Pittsburgh Public Theater and other groups, ''arts are the driver for economic development,'' Mr. King of the Heinz Endowments said. In the next 18 months, 1,500 residential units will open nearby, adding to the current downtown population of 3,000 people. Marriott has also built three hotels, two in the district and one on the North Shore.
 While the cultural district has flourished, the traditional retailing center between Fifth and Forbes Avenues has foundered. Three national developers have withdrawn from city plans to revitalize the five-block area, and two major department stores, Lazarus-Macy's and Lord & Taylor, have closed. 
 A new plan may have to wait for the election of a successor to the three-term mayor, Tom Murphy, in November. Meanwhile, skeptics argue that encouraging residential rather than retail development makes sense. 
 ''Improvement in the core city radiates from areas of strength, like the cultural district,'' Mr. King said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: South Side Works, which is named for the former mill on the site owned by the steel maker LTV, is a $300 million mixed-use project with 675,000 square feet of Class A office space, housing, retailers and a 10-screen cinema. Two buildings are fully leased, with three more to open. (Photo by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times)Map of Pittsburgh

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RIVERS (88%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); FISHES (74%); BIOLOGY (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (62%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (60%); STATE PARKS (57%); THEATER (56%) Area Planning and Renewal; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hiring and Promotion; Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: Michael E Edwards; Christine H O'Toole

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pittsburgh (Pa); Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



388 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Nourishing Egos on the Upper East Side

BYLINE: By Frank Bruni

 BODY:
FIRST came the overnight bag, the kind with wheels and a retractable handle, the kind that told everybody its owner was moving too briskly through his important schedule to swing by the apartment between the airport and dinner. One of the restaurant's managers hustled it to the back, a vassal stowing his lord's battle armor.
 Then came the lord: maybe early 30's, open collar, long strides, perfect hair, cellphone on his ear. He looked like Michael Douglas in ''Wall Street'' crossed with Vince Vaughn in ''Swingers,'' an amalgam of cockiness and slickness. He was Frederick's Madison all the way.
Frederick's seems to exist in very large measure for people who want to feel, and want restaurants to make them feel, that they have reached the very apex of privilege. In that pampering clime they find an Upper East Side neighborhood bistro recast as an unabashedly expensive validation of their social and economic stations. They find red velvet chairs, Lalique lighting fixtures, servers in ties and vests and a menu with a $26 appetizer of hot and cold foie gras, a $42 veal chop and truffles galore. 
 If it's a weeknight and the Hamptons haven't diverted much of the restaurant's business, they find a cast of characters who nourish their vanities and fantasies: suave young men with self-conscious gaits; skinny young women whose most carefully chosen accessories are their world-weary gazes; older men in pastel sport shirts and pricey loafers; older women with very taut skin and very white teeth.
 And here's the lucky part: they find some accomplished, occasionally impressive food. What makes Frederick's interesting beyond the mirror it holds up to a gilded sliver of Manhattan life is how ably it feeds more than just its patrons' egos.
 To be clear, Frederick's neither composes an interesting enough menu nor performs consistently enough to lure many diners with no other business in the East 60's. It's not especially dashing, either. With about 65 seats in a boxy room, it has a clubby rather than theatrical scale and sensibility.
 But for people with deep pockets and a desire to eat on this patch of the Upper East Side, Frederick's delivers some definite pleasures. One is its best dessert, which goes by an overwrought name. It's called the ''passionatta,'' and a server erroneously introduced it to us as a kind of panna cotta. But it's denser and richer, essentially a passion fruit semifreddo, shaped into a disk and sandwiched between a bottom layer of hard white chocolate and a top layer of passion fruit gelee.
 Another of those pleasures is a relatively flat loaf of house-made bread, served as a complimentary starter. The kitchen slathers it with a mixture of olives, garlic confit and very fine Spanish olive oil, then tops it with overlapping rectangles of Manchego cheese. 
 Yet another is a white seafood bouillabaisse appetizer with shrimp, clams and scallops adrift in a bracingly intense broth of white wine, garlic and clam juice.
 As may now be evident, the restaurant's chef, Vincent Chirico, doesn't traffic much in understatement and dainty effects. He surrounds his appealing rack of lamb with white beans and merguez sausages.
 He serves a less remarkable strip steak with a damn-the-torpedoes side of pureed potatoes, Vidalia onions and summer truffles. He goes overboard with the steak itself, subjecting it to a bullying sauce of veal stock, caramelized onions, mustard and more.
 A separate ''beef trio'' consists not only of sliced tenderloin and braised short rib but also of marrow, which has been removed from the bone, thickened with bread crumbs, garlic confit, eggs and various herbs, and then reinserted. Overkill has a new mascot, bad cholesterol a new cheerleader. 
 A diner can of course eat lighter, and the Frederick's menu, like that of almost every restaurant, is as much a conformist reflection of popular tastes, an indulgence of unexciting expectations, as it is an expression of its chef's culinary imagination.
 And so the timid and the carbophobic can find appetizers of asparagus with shaved Parmesan and of crab and avocado. Yawn alert: entrees include grilled tuna, served rare and accompanied by a bevy of seasonal vegetables.
 Frederick's Madison is the creation of the French brothers Frederick and Laurent Lesort, who also own a lounge named Frederick's on West 58th Street and previously catered to night crawlers with Buddha Bar on Varick Street.
 They sell more than cocktails and steak tartare. They peddle an elite juju, a coddled vibe, and that objective is neatly captured by the way the publicity materials for Frederick's Madison characterize its combination of French, Italian and Spanish cooking. This cuisine isn't merely Mediterranean. It's ''Mediterranean-Riviera.''
 It is accompanied by a wine list with only one bottle of red under $50 and two bottles of white below that mark. The list is brief, so when servers announced that the restaurant was out of a Spanish red we had requested, they should have offered us a slightly more costly wine for the same price. They at least should have made a suggestion of some kind. They did neither.
 The restaurant should also make good on its promise of that $42 veal chop, which is like the yeti, rumored but undocumented. Frederick's didn't have it on two straight visits.
 Some of what it did have was disappointing, like an overdone roasted chicken. Some was extremely pleasant, like a lightly dressed salad of shaved fennel, caramelized pear, Spanish almonds and Gorgonzola.
 And some was even better than that. Mr. Chirico's ravioli, stuffed with a spring pea puree, ricotta and mascarpone and topped with browned butter, are terrific.
 His slow-baked cod has a lovely texture, and he lovingly surrounds it with a leek emulsion, which he thickens with whipped cream. At Frederick's, more is more and a meal is a metaphor for a certain kind of existence, seasoned and garnished with indulgence.

Frederick's Madison
* [Rating: One Star]
768 Madison Avenue (66th Street), Upper East Side; (212)737-7300.

ATMOSPHERE -- An essentially rectangular room that feels too small for the red velvet chairs that gussy it up.
SOUND LEVEL -- Very lively when crowded.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Pear and fennel salad; white seafood bouillabaisse; spring pea and ricotta ravioli; rack of lamb; slow-baked cod; passionatta; chocolate tartufo.
WINE LIST -- Relatively brief, international and expensive.
PRICE RANGE -- Breakfast and brunch selections, $9 to $28. Lunch appetizers, salads and individual pizzas, $10 to $20; entrees, $23 to $28. Dinner appetizers, $10 to $26; entrees, $20 to $42; desserts, $10.
HOURS -- Breakfast, 8 to 11 a.m. Monday through Friday. Lunch, 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday, with a limited menu available from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. Brunch, noon to 4 p.m. Sunday. Dinner, 5:30 to 11 p.m. seven days a week.
RESERVATIONS -- Call at least five days ahead for a prime time on weeknights, the busiest nights during summer.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Restaurant is at street level and restrooms are technically accessible, but the narrow path to them is difficult to negotiate.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Very good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: nytimes.com/dining


GRAPHIC: Photo: RED VELVET SEATS -- Frederick's Madison has a clublike atmosphere. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) Restaurants; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Frederick's Madison (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: VINCE VAUGHN (55%) Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



389 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: City's Success Built on Power To Seize Land 

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Stamford, Conn. 

 BODY:
THE signs all over town herald Stamford as ''The City That Works,'' a predictable enough bit of local boosterism with the added advantage of being mostly true -- especially downtown, where Stamford's business district is by far the biggest success story in a state known for wealthy suburbs and distressed cities.
 There are a lot of reasons Stamford has done so well, with about 15 million square feet of office space under rent, most notably the home of the giant UBS international investment bank lured from Manhattan. But one of them stands out: Since the 1960's the city has been using its power of eminent domain, mostly in the 130 acres in its southeast quadrant, to take private property, assemble developable megaparcels and eventually turn them into the glistening, somewhat antiseptic downtown business district that is doing so well today.
In the overheated petri dish of outrage that is American politics, there was something quite familiar about the calls for doing something, anything, immediately, yesterday, about the 5-4 Supreme Court decision last month that upheld the taking of private homes through eminent domain up Interstate 95 in New London. But as Connecticut legislators ponder calls for severe curbs on eminent domain, the experience in Stamford may say more about the issues than the overheated public debate. 
 So while you can find cases of eminent domain applied in questionable ways, with New London perhaps one of them, almost lost in the public fulminating is that for cities having to compete with the vast acres of suburban sprawl, eminent domain is often the one effective way they can do it. 
 The decision touched off the usual outrage over activist judges. Gov. M. Jodi Rell compared the ''five robed justices'' (it would be better if they disrobed?) to the king of England before the American Revolution. But skeptics say the ruling was the opposite of judicial activism, with the court declining to overturn state laws and local practices. 
 ''This wasn't activist judges taking the laws into their own hands,'' said Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford. ''But talk radio has turned this whole thing upside down.'' 
 NOT that there aren't important issues in New London, where 15 homeowners were holding out against a sprawling hotel and conference project to be built by a private developer, or elsewhere, like outside Syracuse where small business owners have fought to protect their businesses from being taken for the highly speculative DestiNY USA megaproject. At issue are cases of eminent domain not for roads or schools, but for private economic development projects promoted as having substantial public benefit.
 But officials with Connecticut cities and towns say the ones most at risk in this dispute are not homeowners, facing the infinitesimal risk their homes might be taken for a competing use, but cities facing declining tax bases and competition from suburbs with large inventories of available dirt. 
 ''You can't run an assembly line around some guy's porch. You can't have a building with six wings on it. Cities have to have some way to assemble rational pieces of land or there's no way they can compete with suburbs,'' said Michael W. Freimuth, Stamford's director of economic development. 
 Robert M. Ward, the Connecticut House minority leader, says it is not that simple, that private developers can assemble properties on their own without eminent domain, and that it is never appropriate to take property from one owner, be it homeowner or business, for another. And, he said, there is a practical as well as a moral issue: Too often projects turn out to be duds.
 ''More often than not the projects are failures,'' he said. ''It's a fast, easy, lazy, unfair way of taking people's property.''
 But it would be hard to prove that in Stamford, where the biggest downside may be too much traffic and growth. Michael Lawlor, co-chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said there are many issues worth reviewing -- whether there should be a requirement that eminent domain be limited to properties in ''blighted areas,'' and how to make that determination, whether there should be different standards for residences than businesses, and what proper compensation levels are. But those questions are better dealt with in a deliberative fashion than a post-ruling panic, he said.
 In Texas, for example, state senators rushed together a bill limiting eminent domain only to find, gasp, that it might apply to a proposed stadium for the Dallas Cowboys. Bowing to a recognition of what constitutes really important public uses, the proposed stadium was grandfathered in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (92%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PROPERTY LAW (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (55%); BRITISH MONARCHS (50%) Eminent Domain; Taxation

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (52%); M JODI RELL (52%) Peter Applebome

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (58%) Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



390 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Ask Me About Cleveland

BYLINE: By SARAH VOWELL. 
Maureen Dowd is on book leave. Sarah Vowell, a contributor to public radio's ''This American Life,'' is the author, most recently, of ''Assassination Vacation.'' E-mail: vowell@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I've been putting it off. This summer, I had hoped to get around to abolishing the Electoral College. But it's been so hot. Now I'm willing to delegate. Maybe other people should handle it. Like members of Congress. Or Norman Lear. 
 The 2008 presidential election is, by my calculations, at least three years away. But it's been on my mind for at least three reasons. First of all, I just read Jess Walter's swell thriller ''Citizen Vince,'' the tale of a guy in the witness protection program with a subplot involving Election Day in 1980, and I realized how much, despite all logic, I'm itching to vote. ''It's a nice, small feeling,'' thinks Walter's protagonist of the moment in the voting booth, making his choice. 
 Second, the National Governors Association descended on Des Moines last weekend. All I had to read were the words ''governor'' and ''Iowa'' and I knew the campaign had already started, that someday I might have to get used to the unlikely sound of President Vilsack or the unlikelier President Pataki. 
 And, finally, all the recent chitchat about the disproportionate amount of counterterrorism money received by the State of Wyoming reminded me of the looming fiasco of Wyoming's disproportionate electoral voice in the event of an Electoral College tie.
 I would rather not spend the next Election Day the way I spent the last one: wondering just how much to hate Ohio. My vote was written off because I live in the perpetually sewn-up state of New York. But because the citizens of that battleground state could not make up their gosh darn minds, their votes actually counted. They chose the current president of the United States.
 Or rather, to be accurate, last Nov. 2 they chose the rich guys and party hangers-on known as the electors of the Electoral College, and on Dec. 13, those folks elected the president. 
 But here's the depressing what-if. If neither John Kerry nor George Bush had received the necessary 270 electoral votes to win -- which was a real possibility -- the House of Representatives would have chosen the president. What's wrong with that? Nothing much -- if each state's representatives all voted. But in such a contingency, each state in the union is allotted a single vote for president. Let me repeat that: a single vote. So the half-million residents of Wyoming would have had the same amount of say in electing the president as the 34 million citizens of California. 
 What is the most pressing social issue in 92-percent-white Wyoming? Whether people should be able to ride snowmobiles in Yellowstone. 
 (I will go on the record as being against snowmobiles in Yellowstone -- not because I'm an environmentalist but because I am not ''fun.'') 
 Am I the only New Yorker (or Californian or Texan) who, nearly nine months after Election Day, can still name the specifics of Ohio's concerns to a ''Behind the Music'' level of detail? That its jobs have gone to China and its schools have gone to hell? That Cleveland is the poorest big city in America? 
 I will never forget the moment last fall when, about an hour into the third presidential debate, John Kerry brought up the statistic that half of the black men in New York City are unemployed. I felt all tingly, and curiously proud. Hey, I thought, he mentioned us! The Democratic nominee finally noticed that my town can be unfair to black people, too. In your face, Cleveland.
 I can probably live with the fact that the Electoral College won't be abolished during this or any summer for the rest of this century. I can probably live with an increasing number of campaign updates from the (also maddeningly arbitrarily important) states of Iowa and New Hampshire -- then Toledo, Toledo, Toledo in the coming months and years. 
 But I cannot live with that equation of Wyoming = California, that one-state-one-vote House contingency. I know it is merely one small procedural rule. It is not as dramatic or as significant as Supreme Court confirmations. It is not as pressing a morass as the war that looks as if it will go on for the rest of all our lives. That is actually why it is a pleasant problem to ponder in the middle of July, years away from the next election. It is solvable. 
 I bet commuting Senator Joe Biden alone could draft the entire bill tomorrow morning on a napkin in the Amtrak snack bar, some version of ''herewith the whole House votes.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); TERRORISM (65%); WITNESSES (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (50%) Presidential Elections (US); Terrorism; Federal Aid (US); Electoral College; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: WITNESS PROTECTION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Sarah Vowell

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



391 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Cutting College Aid, and Fostering Crime

 BODY:
One of the most irrational initiatives in the war on crime was a decision by Congress in the 1990's to cut off some ex-offenders from federal education aid. It's highly unlikely that anyone has been deterred from lawbreaking as a result. But if people who have paid their debts to society and are seeking new starts are denied education aid, they could well be locked out of the new economy and sent right back through the revolving door into prison. 
 Congress is revisiting a particularly onerous law under which tens of thousands of students have been turned down for federal grants and loans because of drug offenses, some of them minor and as much as a decade old. A proposed change in the law would improve the picture slightly. It is aimed at penalizing students who commit drug-related crimes while receiving federal aid. It would be better to repeal the provision entirely, as many observers have suggested. 
 Law enforcement officials have learned over and over again that ex-offenders who get an education and find jobs are far less likely to end up back behind bars. Barring former offenders from school aid makes it virtually impossible for them to get the necessary schooling for joining the mainstream. The law has a disproportionate impact on poor and minority communities, where the drug trade is rampant and young men often have run-ins with the law before they get their lives on track. 
 By narrowing access to affordable education, the federal government further diminishes the prospects of young people who are already at risk of becoming lifetime burdens to society. Members of Congress are understandably hesitant to cast votes that might brand them as being ''soft on crime.'' But it doesn't take a genius to see that barring young minority offenders from college leads to more crime -- not less. Student aid was never intended for use as a law enforcement weapon. Any attempt to employ it that way will inevitably yield perverse and unfair results. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PRISONS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (76%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%) Colleges and Universities; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Student Loans

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



392 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Challenged On Asbestos

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Plaintiffs' lawyers, long accustomed to public criticism and lawmakers' wrath, now face a new and more dangerous adversary in federal prosecutors. 
 The latest evidence that the government may be increasingly willing to pursue these lawyers comes in the bankruptcy of a company overwhelmed by asbestos claims. Recently filed court documents show that federal prosecutors in Manhattan may have begun to investigate the conduct of three law firms.
The documents -- which surfaced in the bankruptcy case of G-1 Holdings, formerly the GAF Corporation, a manufacturer of roofing material -- show that lawyers for G-1 have met with prosecutors from the United States attorney's office in Manhattan in recent months. The documents also show that the company's lawyers have turned over records of extensive interviews with former employees of the three plaintiffs' firms in which some employees described coaching potential claimants and noted efforts to influence doctors' diagnoses. 
 The investigation is potentially explosive because asbestos litigation has been a hugely costly problem for companies and an almost inconceivably profitable business for plaintiffs' lawyers. About 730,000 people have filed claims for asbestos-related injuries, costing a total of $70 billion as of 2002, according to the RAND Corporation, which estimates that a little less than a third of the total went to plaintiffs' lawyers. And since 1976, asbestos liability has contributed to the bankruptcy of more than 70 companies, including Bethlehem Steel, Owens Corning and W.R. Grace. 
 ''Our system of justice depends on lawyers processing cases and making representations that are based on their sound judgment about the facts,'' said Stephen P. Younger, a lawyer at Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in New York. ''As a result, if lawyers are charged with inflating or falsifying claims, it is a bad day for the legal profession.'' 
 The current criminal investigation is the latest example of a new willingness by prosecutors to look into the conduct of plaintiffs' lawyers. Last month, the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles announced the first indictments related to a three-year-old investigation of Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman, a law firm known for its frequent shareholder class-action lawsuits. 
 The interviews of former employees were conducted by investigators from Kroll, which was retained by G-1 to gather evidence in its three-year-old civil lawsuit against three plaintiffs' law firms: Baron & Budd of Dallas; Ness, Motley, Loadholt, Richardson & Poole of Mount Pleasant, S.C. (a law firm in the process of disbanding); and Weitz & Luxenberg of New York.
 Last month, Kroll investigators, after receiving a subpoena from prosecutors, turned over their findings; the subpoena suggests that prosecutors are interested in the asbestos claims. 
 Lawyers say at least one insurance company has also received a subpoena. 
 A spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office declined to comment on the matter, as did a spokeswoman for Weitz & Luxenberg.
 Steven Storch, a New York lawyer representing Ness, Motley, Loadholt, Richardson & Poole, said, ''We would've expected that if there were anything of any interest, we would've heard about it during the course of civil litigation, and we didn't hear anything.''
 Frederick M. Baron, of Baron & Budd, said that he knew documents had been provided to the United States attorney's office, but that the same documents had not proved persuasive in the civil case by G-1 against the firm. ''We have received no information that the U.S. attorney's office has done anything other than accept documents that the lawyers from G-1 have asked them to.'' 
 Mr. Baron said the judge in the civil case had reviewed the documents and not found them credible. ''The Kroll affidavits are bogus in the extreme,'' he said.
 G-1 was driven to seek Chapter 11 protection in 2001 as a result of some 150,000 asbestos claims. The court filings, in which lawyers describe the activities that generated their bills, indicate that lawyers for G-1 have spoken or met with assistant United States attorneys several times in recent months.
 The United States attorney's office in Manhattan is also pursuing an investigation into thousands of claims filed on behalf of people who said they were injured by exposure to silica, another dangerous material. Some of the same law firms that brought those claims also brought asbestos claims, some of the same doctors who diagnosed silica injury in claimants also diagnosed asbestos injury in claimants -- and many of the same people claiming they were hurt by silica previously claimed they were harmed by asbestos.
 The criminal investigation could have broad implications for the civil justice system that compensates victims of personal injuries. If it proceeds to an actual case, it could also force some lawyers who file what are known as mass tort claims to change their tactics. 
 And defense lawyers, who have often been reluctant to take on plaintiffs' lawyers armed with thousands of claims in open legal battle, could be emboldened.
 The investigation, raising the specter of fraud, will almost certainly be seized on by advocates of changes to the nation's civil justice system. Lawyers who represent people who are already sick as a result of asbestos exposure said they worried that any such changes might make it harder for legitimate asbestos victims to recover damages they deserve. 
 ''They're just going to try to manipulate any investigation and try to use it to take away the rights of all asbestos victims,'' said David McClain, whose law firm, Kazan, McClain, Abrams, Fernandez, Lyons & Farrise, represents people suffering mesothelioma, a cancer caused by asbestos exposure.
 The spreading investigation could unleash a new wave of litigation over claims that were already paid. If many claims are found to be false, people who are genuinely sick and who recovered less money than they might have in the absence of those claims could sue the firms that filed them. 
 A criminal investigation could provide potent ammunition to litigators like Irving Cohen, a lawyer at Cohen Pope in New York who has filed objections to asbestos settlements in various corporate bankruptcies on the ground that they unfairly discriminate against people who are currently sick as a result of exposure to asbestos. 
 ''It can't give anything but momentum to what we've been doing,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''The implication of a criminal investigation is that perhaps some wrongdoing was occurring and if that were to be the case, it would certainly augment the civil remedy. Depending on what kind of evidence that they can obtain, it is potentially very big.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about a criminal investigation into the conduct of three law firms involved in asbestos litigation mischaracterized the allegations in civil court filings against two firms, Weitz & Luxenberg, and Ness, Motley, Loadholt, Richardson & Poole. 
 While the filings discussed other issues involving the two firms, they did not implicate employees of the two firms in the coaching of potential claimants or efforts to influence doctors' diagnoses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); TOXIC TORTS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ASBESTOS PRODUCT MFG (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (79%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); ETHICS (76%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ROOFING MATERIALS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%) Asbestos; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Bankruptcies; Liability for Products; Asbestos; Asbestos

COMPANY: PATTERSON BELKNAP WEBB & TYLER LLP (91%); MILBERG LLP (84%); G-I HOLDINGS INC (83%); RAND CORP (67%); OWENS CORNING (58%); W R GRACE & CO (54%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Baron & Budd; Ness Motley Loadholt Richardson & Poole; Weitz & Luxenberg; G-I Holdings

TICKER: OC (NYSE) (58%); GRA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (67%); NAICS423330 ROOFING, SIDING & INSULATION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324122 ASPHALT SHINGLE & COATING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



393 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Ford Motor's Earnings Decline 19% in the Quarter

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 19 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company reported a 19 percent decline in second-quarter earnings on Tuesday as it continues to struggle to keep American customers. 
 While the company's performance has shown more resilience this year than that of its crosstown rival, General Motors, some financial analysts were nonetheless concerned that Ford's second-quarter results were propped up by a tax refund and other favorable tax-related developments.
A further concern is the company's continued heavy reliance on profits from car loans, which for the last few years have far outstripped the profitability of Ford's core business, building and selling cars. Those lending profits are cooling off as interest rates rise. 
 ''Despite profitability in most regions, our global automotive results were disappointing, reflecting the fiercely competitive environment in which we continue to operate, particularly in North America,'' said William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman and chief executive.
 In trading Tuesday, Ford shares fell 9 cents, to $10.84. 
 Ford reported net income of $946 million in the quarter, down from nearly $1.2 billion in the second quarter of 2004. The decline came even as revenue grew to $44.5 billion in the quarter, up from $42.9 billion a year earlier. A variety of factors narrowed the company's profit margins, from pricing pressures in Europe and the United States to the rising cost of commodities like steel. The company also said it had experienced higher-than-expected warranty costs because of quality problems in older models it would not identify. 
 Ford said it was sticking to its previous operating earnings guidance of $1 to $1.25 a share for the year. 
 But Don Leclair, the chief financial officer, also said Ford would no longer provide quarterly earnings projections ''because of the high volatility in many elements of the business, which makes it increasingly difficult to provide accurate short-term forecasts.'' 
 Earlier this year, G.M., which reports its earnings on Wednesday, stopped providing earnings projections either quarterly or for the year. 
 Ford reported operating earnings, excluding one-time charges, of $936 million, or 47 cents a share, down from 61 cents a share a year ago but exceeding the 33-cent consensus estimate of Wall Street analysts compiled by Thomson Financial. 
 Ford reported a $245 million pretax loss in its global automotive operations, before charges. The company suffered most at home, reporting a $907 million pretax loss in North American automotive operations in contrast to a $454 million profit a year earlier. Not only did sales suffer, but Ford's highly profitable large S.U.V.'s suffered some of the steepest declines.
 The poor performance was offset by a $1.3 billion pretax profit for Ford's financing operations, down from $1.5 billion a year earlier.
 Tax refunds played a significant role in Ford's second-quarter results. Refunds based on several years of tax payments and interest on those payments added about $550 million to pretax operating earnings, Mr. Leclair said in an interview. 
 In addition, the resolution of largely unrelated tax issues with federal and state governments added $384 million to after-tax profits. That latter benefit offset one-time charges taken by Ford during the quarter, mostly stemming from Ford's bailout of its former parts division, Visteon; Ford is reclaiming more than 20 plants and facilities from Visteon and plans to sell them off. 
 During a teleconference call by Ford on Tuesday, Ronald Tadross, an analyst at Bank of America, said the company's earnings were almost entirely driven by tax factors and by its setting aside less money to cover losses from bad loans as its default rate improves. 
 ''There's no pretax profit here if I 'x' those two things out,'' said Mr. Tadross, adding, ''What do you do different than the competition to improve your margins if you don't have any earnings this quarter?''
 Responding to the question, Mr. Leclair of Ford said Mr. Tadross was ''overgeneralizing'' by focusing only on items that were driving up Ford's results, as opposed to negative factors like the cost of the Visteon deal. 
 ''We're working on a plan, and we'll take you guys through it when we are ready to,'' Mr. Leclair added. ''There are lots of ups and downs in a business like this.''
 Last month, Ford's sales were hurt by a G.M. promotion offering the public the same discounts on 2005 models that company employees receive. 
 This month, Ford and Chrysler are largely matching the deal, which could crimp profits while lifting sales. For the third quarter, Ford said it planned only a 2.3 percent cut in production in North America. 
 In a note to investors, Robert Barry, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said the ''employee pricing promotion may be taking a big bite out of inventories, which is a positive.'' 
 While European operations reported declining profits, an encouraging sign came from Ford's Premier Automotive Group, which includes Jaguar, Aston Martin, Land Rover and Volvo. The division reported a $17 million pretax profit, in contrast to a $347 million loss a year earlier.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A customer took a close look at a Mustang yesterday at Liberty Ford in Solon, Ohio. (Photo by Amy Sancetta/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Company Reports ; Automobiles 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



394 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Joined at the Hip

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
On the question of whether China's Cnooc oil company should be permitted by the U.S. government to purchase the U.S. oil and gas company Unocal, my view is very simple: let the market rule. Oil is fungible. It is all one global market. And if China wants to overpay for a second-tier U.S. energy company, that's China's business. Anyway, the more starved Americans are for oil, the sooner we will adopt alternatives and get off this drug once and for all.
 If I seem uninterested in this matter, I am. Because I do not think the important issue is who owns Unocal. The important issue is whether America and China are drifting into a dangerous confrontation over geoeconomics. How so? Well, in brief, the Chinese and U.S. economies have become totally intertwined. While we have been focused on 9/11 and Iraq, China and America have become, in economic terms, Siamese twins. 
 You know that cheap mortgage you just got? Well, who do you think subsidized it? In many ways it was China. Americans don't save anymore, and import more than they export. Normally, a nation that did that as long and lavishly as the U.S. has would have to raise interest rates to get other countries to hold its currency. But America has not had to do that, in part because China has been willing to hold most of the dollars it has been accumulating -- gained from all the goods it is selling America -- despite the low interest paid on those dollars and the fact that they have been depreciating against other major currencies.
 How come? Call it the Tiananmen-Texas Bargain. After Tiananmen, China's leaders struck an implicit bargain with their people, argued Steven Weber, director of Berkeley's Institute of International Studies. ''The bargain is that China's voters give up the right to vote, and the Chinese government guarantees China's middle class 9 percent annual economic growth. China's political stability today depends on that bargain.'' 
 The Texas side of that bargain came from the Bush team. For a long time, it ignored China's undervalued currency so China could sell us lots of cheap stuff and would continue holding our devaluing dollars and helping to keep U.S. interest rates low. Our buying binge helped keep China's workers employed and its leaders in power. Their holding our depreciating dollars helped you buy a house with no money down. We've been in symbiotic relationships like this before with Western Europe and Japan during the cold war, but they were allies and democracies, so we could adjust imbalances more easily. Not so with China.
 We are Siamese twins, but most unlikely ones -- joined at the hip, but not identical. That's a problem. Because we now need to adjust the Tiananmen-Texas bargain. So many U.S. dollars and jobs are flowing to China, it is becoming politically and economically unsustainable for the Bush team. Hedge funds have made huge speculative bets around the T-T bargain. We need China to revalue its currency upward against the dollar, so China buys more stuff from us and we buy less stuff from China. 
 But China's foreign exchange reserves today are nearly $750 billion and heading for $1 trillion -- most in U.S. Treasury notes. If China is compelled by the U.S. to revalue its currency, and effectively devalue the dollar further, Beijing will take a big hit on all of its dollar reserves -- especially since most experts say the dollar has to be devalued by 30 to 40 percent against the Chinese currency to have any impact on the trade balance. That would also be likely to affect the dollar's value against other currencies and create pressure for inflation and higher interest rates in the U.S.
 ''If the dollar falls and U.S. interest rates rise, it could cause a recession or stagflation in America,'' Professor Weber said. ''But if the Chinese currency rises too far too fast and triggers unemployment, it could cause a revolution against the Communist Party. We might see our dollar policy as a market adjustment, but they could see it as an attempt at regime change.''
 As I said, the issue is not Unocal. The real issue is that we have slipped into a symbiotic relationship with another major power that is neither a free market nor a democracy. We have both grown dependent on that relationship -- the U.S. for cheap goods and cheap mortgages, and China for high employment and regime stability. We now have to adjust the bargain at the heart of that relationship. Whether we can do that delicately, without destabilizing Beijing or the global economy, could be the big geopolitical story of 2005. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); DEVALUATION (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: S-ENERGY CO LTD (72%); CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Unocal Corp ; China National Offshore Oil Corp

TICKER: 095910 (KSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (72%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



395 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

In Restructuring, Hewlett-Packard Plans to Lay Off 14,500 Employees
Hewlett-Packard, the giant computer and printer maker, announced that it would lay off 14,500 employees, or nearly 10 percent of its work force, over 18 months as part of a restructuring plan that executives hoped would turn around its struggling fortunes. [Page C1.]

Letter at Vioxx Trial Showed Merck Understated Risk
In a letter to doctors in April 2001, Merck seriously understated the heart risks faced by patients taking its painkiller Vioxx, according to evidence presented in the first Vioxx lawsuit to reach trial. [C1.]

Plaintiffs' Lawyers Scrutinized in Asbestos Case
Recently filed court documents show that federal prosecutors in Manhattan are looking at the conduct of plaintiffs' lawyers in a bankruptcy case involving a large asbestos lawsuit. [C1.]

Intel Says Quarterly Profits Increased 16%
Intel reported that its profits rose 16 percent because of healthy growth in the computer industry and strong demand for notebook computers. [C1.]

Acquisitions Cut Into Boston Scientific Earnings
Boston Scientific, which has been steadily acquiring smaller companies to expand its portfolio of medical devices, said that accounting charges related to three such deals had cut its second-quarter net income by one-third, to $205 million. [C9.]

Johnson & Johnson, while reporting strong second-quarter earnings, hinted at a delay in its planned $25.4 billion purchase of Guidant, which recently disclosed defects in some of its heart defibrillators and pacemakers. [C9.]

Second-Quarter Income Rises at Merrill Lynch
Merrill Lynch posted strong second-quarter earnings, buoyed by improved results in investment banking and trading, a gain in its private equity business and a string of moderate-size acquisitions. [C3.]

Ford Motor reported a 19 percent decline in second-quarter earnings as it continued to struggle to keep American customers. [C3.]

Stocks Rise on Positive Earnings Announcements
The S.&P. 500 added 8.22 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,229.35, resuming a rally that has lifted it to a four-year high. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 28.31 points, or 1.3 percent, to 2,173.18. The Dow Jones industrial average added 71.57, or 0.7 percent, to 10,646.56. [C9.]

International Paper May Sell Units
International Paper said that it might sell up to seven units to focus on industrial and consumer packaging and certain paper operations. [C5.]

Rules Clarified on Family Limited Partnerships
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has clarified restrictions on family limited partnerships, a widespread estate planning technique that reduces taxes on inheritances and gifts. [C5.]

Venture Fund to Invest in Chinese Companies
Accel Partners, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm, said that it would team with the venture capital arm of the International Data Group to create a $250 million fund to invest in Chinese technology companies. [C4.]

Yahoo's Earnings Helped by Sale of Google Shares
Yahoo said it earned $755 million in the second quarter, and of that $563 million came from selling about $1 billion in Google shares that it received in an earlier business deal and the settlement of a patent suit last year. [C6.]

Microsoft Sues Google Over Executive
Microsoft filed a lawsuit asserting that Google hired away a Microsoft executive in violation of a clause in the executive's contract. [C3.]

I.B.M. to Reorganize Its Services Division
I.B.M. announced a management reorganization that would split the responsibilities for leading its big services unit. [C6.]

Dissidents Threaten to Boycott Labor Convention
Dissident leaders of several major unions warned that they might shun next week's A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention in Chicago unless the labor federation's president, John J. Sweeney, agreed to some of their demands. [A11.]

Royal Dutch/Shell Still in Flux After Changes
A year and a half after a reserve scandal that sank Royal Dutch/Shell's stock and forced the ouster of three top executives, the company is still remaking itself, analysts and investors say. The chief executive, Jeroen van der Veer, left, has led a huge structural overhaul, streamlining management and instituting new methods of tallying results, particularly in the exploration and production division, which finds reserves. [C4.]

Pittsburgh Remakes Itself With New Development
Development in Pittsburgh has accelerated, with successes on the North Shore, the South Side and the downtown theater district. Despite the successes, office vacancy rates have remained high, and a move to revive retailing in the central business district has repeatedly failed. Square Feet. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Boston Scientific from April to July. (April: $28.76 -- July: $28.32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); PRINTER MFG (78%); EVIDENCE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (76%); LITIGATION (76%); LAWYERS (76%); MEDICAL DEVICES (75%); ASBESTOS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (68%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); ESTATE PLANNING (60%); ESTATE TAX (60%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (54%); PAPER MILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTEL CORP (56%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (55%); FORD MOTOR CO (53%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (67%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); BSX (NYSE) (55%); FORDP (PAR) (53%); F (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



396 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Venture Firm And Ally Plan China Fund 

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, July 19 

 BODY:
Accel Partners, one of Silicon Valley's biggest venture capital firms, said Tuesday that it would team up with the venture capital arm of the International Data Group, the American publisher and media company, to create a $250 million fund to invest in Chinese technology companies.
 The move is one of the biggest yet as Silicon Valley venture capital firms enter China's fast-growing, but increasingly competitive, technology market.
Like other foreign investors, American venture capitalists and private equity firms have been rushing into China over the last few years in search of the Chinese equivalents of Yahoo. 
 ''There's no shortage of capital sloshing around the markets right now,'' said Charles C. Comey, a managing partner in the Shanghai office of the Morrison Foerster firm, which advises companies on venture capital and private equity investments.
 Some analysts here, however, are already warning that too much speculative money is flowing into China, driving up the value of Chinese technology companies, and that many foreign investors will probably face huge losses in the coming years.
 But some impressive success stories in the last year have helped fuel the China investing frenzy, particularly because China's technology, gaming, Internet and mobile telephone markets are booming.
 This year, for instance, the Softbank Asia Infrastructure Fund sold its stake in Shanda Interactive Entertainment, the gaming company based in Shanghai, for more than $500 million after the company was listed on the Nasdaq stock market in 2004. Softbank had invested about $40 million in Shanda in 2003.
 Doll Capital Management, another Silicon Valley venture capital firm, has also done well by investing in more than half a dozen Chinese companies. 
 Analysts said that Accel might be seeking the expertise of IDG's venture capital arm, which has already invested in more than 140 Chinese companies in the last decade.
 Last year, venture capital firms invested nearly $1.3 billion, up nearly 30 percent from 2003, according to Zero2IPO, a venture capital research and consulting company based in Beijing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); GAMING (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); PUBLISHING (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: DOLL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (90%); SHANDA INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT LTD (67%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (59%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Accel Partners; International Data Group

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (90%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (67%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (59%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2005



397 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Formal Inquiry Begins in a Simmering Boeing-Airbus Dispute

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; International Herald-Tribune

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, July 20 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization began its formal investigation Wednesday into billions of dollars in government support that Boeing and Airbus, the world's largest aircraft manufacturers, receive from the United States and the European Union. 
 The 148 members of the W.T.O. agreed in Geneva Wednesday to set up two panels to investigate the claims made by the United States and Europe that the other illegally subsidizes one of the aircraft companies.
Europe and the United States have 20 days to agree on the makeup of the panels, which usually have three members, who cannot be European or American. 
 If the two sides fail to agree, the W.T.O. directorate will choose the members.
 The inquiry is expected to last up to 18 months. After that, Boeing and Airbus -- a joint venture of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company and BAE Systems -- would have 15 months to carry out any recommendation. 
 The first step in arbitrating the dispute comes after nearly a year of simmering tensions. The dispute has threatened to disrupt broader talks aimed at reducing trade barriers, and it could become the biggest and most complex case ever brought before the W.T.O. 
 The inquiry will be sensitive in light of the appointment of Pascal Lamy of France, who will become the W.T.O.'s director general on Sept. 1. 
 Until last year, Mr. Lamy was the trade commissioner for the European Union. 
 Despite the beginning of formal proceedings, both the European Union and Washington asserted Wednesday that they remained open to further talks parallel to the W.T.O. case, amid signs that relations between the United States and the Europeans have warmed somewhat. 
 Richard Mills, the spokesman for the United States trade representative in Washington, said the country was pursuing its case to end the subsidies to Airbus, but he said, ''We continue to prefer a negotiated solution.'' 
 He added, ''The lines of communication are open.'' 
 In Geneva, Fabian Delcros, a spokesman for the European Commission, said: ''The communication lines remain open with the U.S. But we are not in negotiation with the U.S. at this stage.'' 
 The W.T.O. will decide which of the two companies gets more government aid, and exactly what constitutes aid. 
 The United States maintains that the government help Boeing receives, including billions of dollars in research and development financing, complies with W.T.O. rules. But Washington says that European loans sought by Airbus, which is based in Toulouse, France, break those rules and distort competition because they are low-cost and noncommercial. 
 Europe says the United States helps Boeing, which is based in Chicago, through military sales and federal and state tax breaks, as well as other means. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (78%); AIRLINES (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; International Trade and World Market; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (91%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) World Trade Organization; Boeing Co; Airbus Industrie

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); EAD (PAR) (91%); EAD (MCE) (91%); BA (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (58%) Graham Bowley

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%); BELGIUM (79%); FRANCE (79%) Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



398 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: China: Economic Growth Accelerates in 2nd Quarter 

BYLINE: By Chris Buckley (NYT)

 BODY:
China's economy raced ahead 9.5 percent in the second quarter compared with a year ago, spurred by soaring exports, buoyant consumer spending and high investment, the National Bureau of Statistics said. The second-quarter growth result edged past the 9.4 percent of the first quarter, surprising many economists who, after a year of government efforts to slow growth, had thought the economy was finally responding. 
Average growth for the first half of the year was also 9.5 percent, the statistics bureau's spokesman, Zheng Jingping, said in Beijing. China's exports grew 32.7 percent in the first half of the year, to $342 billion, a decrease of three percentage points from the growth rate a year ago, Mr. Zheng said. But import growth plummeted to 14 percent in the first half of this year, from 42.6 percent in the first half of last year. Chen Xingdong, who follows China's economy for BNP Paribas Peregrine in Beijing, said about 45 percent of China's economic growth derives from exports, leaving the country's economic health increasingly vulnerable to pressure from the United States and Europe for China to stanch its trade surplus by raising the value of the yuan. Mr. Zheng said that China's rapid growth is also sustained by high levels of investment in factories, power plants and other infrastructure, despite government efforts to cool investment in some of those sectors. Chris Buckley (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: Chris Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (98%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



399 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Education's Collateral Damage

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Stop the presses! Within just a few days we've had a scandal involving a world-class presidential guru bumped off the front pages by a prime-time presidential announcement of a nominee to the Supreme Court.
 No one would argue that these aren't big stories. But an issue that is even more important to the long-term future of the U.S. gets very short shrift from the media. In an era when a college education is virtually a prerequisite for maintaining a middle-class lifestyle, an extraordinary number of American teenagers continue to head toward adulthood without even a high school diploma. 
This is not a sexy issue, and certainly not as titillating for journalists as the political witchcraft that Karl Rove has used to enchant George W. Bush. But consider the following from the book ''Dropouts in America: Confronting the Graduation Rate Crisis,'' a collection of essays edited by Gary Orfield, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education:
 ''Nationally, only about two-thirds of all students -- and only half of all blacks, Latinos and Native Americans -- who enter ninth grade graduate with regular diplomas four years later.''
 In much of the nation, especially in urban and rural areas, the picture is even more dismal. In New York City, just 18 percent of all students graduate with a Regents diploma, which is the diploma generally required for admission to a four-year college. Only 9.4 percent of African-American students get a Regents diploma.
 Over all, the United States has one of the highest high school dropout rates in the industrialized world, which can't be comforting news in the ferociously competitive environment of an increasingly globalized economy.
 ''It's terrifying to know that half of the kids of color in the United States drop out of high school, and that only one in five is prepared for college,'' said Tom Vander Ark of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which is making a big effort to boost high school graduation rates and the number of graduates who are prepared for college.
 Why is the education of America's young people so important?
 ''It may sound like hyperbole,'' said Mr. Vander Ark, ''but this is the economic development issue for our society, and it is the social justice issue of our times. It is the most important long-term issue for the civic health of the republic.
 ''In the aggregate, we need more young people educated at higher levels: more finishing high school, more finishing community college, more finishing four-year degrees. And secondly, I think it's very important that we close the racial and socioeconomic gaps in educational attainment.
 ''We're seeing a scary level of income stratification that is the result of educational stratification. And it's becoming important not just for the economy but for our society that we help low-income [students], and especially kids of color, achieve high levels of education so that they can participate in the economy and in our society.''
 Citing statistics from a variety of sources, officials at the Gates Foundation have noted that:
 High school dropouts, on average, earn $9,245 less per year than high school graduates.
 The poverty rate for families headed by dropouts is more than twice that for families headed by high school graduates.
 Dropouts are much more likely to be unemployed, less likely to vote and more likely to be imprisoned than high school graduates.
 For those concerned about the state of leadership in America, and who wonder where the next generation of leaders will come from, I can tell you it's not likely to emerge from the millions upon millions of dropouts we're setting loose in the land.
 And whether you're a Republican or a Democrat, if you'd like to see a wiser, more creative and more effective approach to such crucial problems as war and peace, terror, international relations, employment, energy consumption and so on, you'll need to rely on a much better-educated and better-informed population than the United States has now.
 I don't think Mr. Vander Ark was engaging in hyperbole. The public needs to understand the extent of the high school dropout crisis, and its implications for the long-term future of the U.S. It will most likely have more of an impact on the lives of your children and grandchildren than George W. Bush's appointments to the Supreme Court. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) 

PERSON: KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005



400 of 632 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: In American Mill Towns, No Mirror Image of the Muslims of Leeds

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
After the four suicide bombers in London were identified last week, news accounts focused on life in the old mill town of Leeds, where they grew up: the immigrant enclaves, the high unemployment, the rising anger and alienation of Muslim residents. Some Britons grasping for an explanation pointed at those conditions, however tentative their link to homegrown terrorism.
 That rough sketch of Leeds had a familiar ring for many residents of the Northeastern United States, where old mill towns in New Jersey and upstate New York have also drawn many immigrants to faded neighborhoods teetering between blight and renewal.
 Three of the suspects were raised in immigrant families from Pakistan and one from Jamaica. New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are now home to at least 20 percent of the nation's 219,000 Pakistani immigrants, and more than half of the 513,000 immigrants from Jamaica. 
 But the differences between the suspects' hometown and the depressed cities around New York are actually stronger than the similarities. Social conditions among British immigrants, for example, appear to be considerably worse than they are in the United States.
 The 747,000 Pakistanis in Britain, counted among its nonwhite residents, are three times more likely to be out of work than white Britons, according to one of several bleak statistics showcased in the 2001 British census. Forty percent of Pakistani women and 28 percent of Pakistani men are listed as having no job qualifications, and school failure among Caribbean blacks is triple the rate for white Britons, who constitute 92 percent of the population. 
 In America, where few surveys even break out ethnic origins, a much rosier picture emerges from available figures. Pakistani household incomes in New York are close to the $43,393 median and exceed it in New Jersey -- $56,566 compared with $55,145, according to 1999 figures, the most recent available. Jamaicans fare a little less well statewide, but have robust rates of household income and educational success in New York City, where they are concentrated. They have a clear edge: English proficiency in a place where one in four residents cannot speak it well, and where nearly half of the work force is foreign-born. 
 While South Asian immigrants to Britain began arriving soon after World War II, they were part of a stream of temporary workers to a small, culturally homogenous country where they remained outsiders. In the United States, the pioneer immigrants from predominantly Muslim lands arrived mainly after 1980, many as university students, and like Caribbean blacks, entered a diverse country built on immigration.
 But demographics fall short of explaining terrorism. As details emerged about the British suspects' relatively prosperous lives, experts and immigrant parents alike wondered how much collective benchmarks mean in predicting the extremism of a handful of angry people.
 Compared with Britain, ''We definitely have a different dynamic going on here in the United States,'' said Peter Skerry, a political scientist at Boston College. ''I don't know that that necessarily means we're out of the woods -- it doesn't take very much for a set of individuals to adopt attitudes that could lead to a terrorist act.''
 Others, like Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center of Immigration Studies, which favors more restriction on immigration, point out that this important demographic difference is temporary: Since most immigrants to the United States from Muslim countries arrived after 1990, few of the children born to them here have reached adulthood yet. He found that more than 85 percent of the 100,000 children born in America to Pakistanis and Bangladeshis are under 20.
 In a Jersey City shop where fresh goat meat and comic videos in Urdu compete for shelf space, Zafar Zafar, a Pakistani father of three, echoed such concerns last week. Mr. Zafar, whose oldest child is 13, struggled in imperfect English to convey his horror at the case of Shahzad Tanweer, 22, the suspect described as a pious but fun-loving youth whose father owned a fish-and-chips shop in Leeds.
 ''It's like a bad dream,'' Mr. Zafar said. ''Someone, crazy guys, make brainwashing.'' He added, ''We need protection. Like, every week, two times a week, all youngsters in community should go together, and someone is teaching them, 'This should no happen again.''' 
 So far, there is little research and less agreement on how well Muslim newcomers are assimilating as Americans, say scholars like Mr. Skerry, who is associated with the Brookings Institute, and Robert S. Leiken, the director of Immigration and National Security at the Nixon Center.
 ''The whole issue of assimilation and integration in relation to terrorism is extremely complicated,'' Mr. Leiken cautioned, noting that more terrorists have turned out to be social winners from an educated middle class, rather than impoverished losers. ''Integration may be going well, but there are people who assimilate as critics, as revolutionaries.''
 There is general agreement, he said, that since 9/11, larger numbers of young Muslims in the United States feel victimized, resentful and alienated, but that is where the consensus ends. ''Some people hold that Muslims are integrating in just the same ways that other American immigrants have integrated,'' he said. ''Others see a process of radical Islamicization.'' 
 Once children born to Pakistani, Egyptian or Iraqi immigrants might simply have found a dual identity in a hyphenated bridge to their parents' national origins. But Mr. Skerry, who has been interviewing such immigrants across the country, said events since 9/11 -- special registration programs, the Patriot Act and the war in Iraq -- almost require even secular families in this second generation to construct an American identity as Muslims. 
 Partha Banerjee, director of the New Jersey Immigration Policy Network, an immigrant advocacy organization, warned of a growing sense of political exclusion among such immigrants, who are facing an anti-immigrant backlash with virtually no elected officials from their own ethnic group. 
 Income statistics in New Jersey hide sharp disparities, he noted, like the chasm between suburban sahibs in places like Somerset, the nation's most affluent county, and poor Pakistanis and Bangladeshis in crowded Jersey City households. 
 ''Violence and terrorism really have no place in a civilized society and I'm not condoning any type of excuse for it,'' Mr. Banerjee stressed. ''But the fact remains that if you just exploit and abuse people without giving them their rights, you run the risk of creating a danger in your own society.''
 In Jersey City, where more than a third of residents are foreign-born, there are no hard-edge ethnic enclaves. A policeman pointed out the second-floor mosque where Omar Abdul Rahman, the blind sheik, used to preach and plot to blow up New York landmarks; it sits over a Chinese takeout restaurant now. 
 A short walk from Mr. Zafar's shop on Newark Avenue on a recent Friday morning, Haitian families in starched finery entered an old movie palace for a convention of Jehovah's Witnesses. At the beauty parlor nearby, everyone was speaking Spanish. And down the block, Indian, Pakistani and Chinese immigrants of different faiths flocked to Patel's Cash and Carry for sacks of rice advertised in an all-American way: ''Buy two, get one free.''
 Fauazia Modak, 26, a Muslim immigrant from Bombay, paused in her shopping to protest what she said were harsh government immigration policies that seemed to blame all Muslims for the crimes of a few. Then she smiled at her son Mizan, just under 2. 
 ''I don't think the children over here would be brainwashed,'' she said, leaning over his stroller. ''I want him to be religious, but I want him to respect all religions. Not just his religion, not just his country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sunni Rizvi Jamia Mosque in Jersey City is housed in a building that earlier served as a synagogue and an abolitionist Baptist church.
 Mahendra Kumar Patel, the manager of Patel's Cash and Carry in Jersey City, has immigrants of many ethnic groups as customers. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TRENDS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%) Terrorism; Immigration and Refugees; Bombs and Explosives; Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Transit Systems; Subways ; Buses; Islam; Labor; Income

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%) Great Britain; New York State; Pakistan; Jamaica; London (Eng); Leeds (Eng); Great Britain; New York State; Connecticut; New Jersey; Great Britain; New Jersey; Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2005

 
