

1001 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: The Yale Effect Spreads Out

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- The corner of State and Chapel Streets was a dead spot in the central retail corridor here when economic development officials began soliciting proposals for the site in August 2006. Once home to a department store, the partially paved lot had been vacant for decades, contributing nothing but parking.
With downtown on the upswing, however, it was easier for developers to imagine new possibilities. If this particular corner lacked vibrancy, one had only to stroll a few blocks up or down Chapel to find livelier streetscapes, much of it the product of years of investment on the part of Yale and aggressive efforts by the city to leverage those dollars. Adding to the lot's potential, it is directly opposite State Street Station, a stop for both the Shore Line East and Metro-North railroads.
Bruce Becker, the president of Becker & Becker, a development firm in Fairfield, was among nine developers that competed for rights to the Chapel Street block. ''I realized it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to do a large transit-oriented development,'' he said. ''There weren't any other sites like this in the state.'' 
His proposal -- a 32-story apartment tower with high-efficiency green features, parking for train commuters and a bike shop and bike storage area -- won the city's approval.
When finished, the 500-unit tower will be the city's second-tallest building after the Connecticut Financial Center and, eventually, its largest taxpaying structure. Right now, it is the most visible sign of downtown New Haven's continuing appeal to private investors, even in the midst of a prolonged downturn.
While many large-scale developers are pulling back as they wait for the credit markets to ease up, Mr. Becker is moving his $180 million project along so fast that it is ahead of schedule. A week ago, he stood at the window of his fourth-floor office watching dozens of workers swarm over what will eventually be the second floor of the tower, to be called 360 State.
The all-equity project represents the first major new residential construction in the city center in at least 20 years, Mr. Becker said. The majority owner is the Multi-Employer Property Trust, a real estate equity fund representing union pension plan investors.
With rents ranging from $1,300 a month for a studio to $5,000 a month for one of the four terraced penthouses, the apartments are aimed at the highest end of the New Haven market.
But Mr. Becker does not see the project as speculative. ''If we just looked at the waiting lists at the better buildings downtown, we could see there's a demand,'' he said.
Under the development agreement, the tower must include 50 apartments offered at rents deemed to be affordable. All of these units will be studios and one-bedroom apartments. For two people with an income no more than $61,300 (120 percent of the area's median income, adjusted for household size), a one-bedroom apartment will rent for an average of $1,172.
Additionally, a 16,000-square-foot retail space on the ground floor must include a food market.
Mr. Becker recalled that when he was attending the School of Architecture and School of Management at Yale as a graduate student in the 1980s, ''Yale was nice, but the rest of the city was pretty dicey in places.'' The university's decision roughly 15 years ago to invest in its neighborhood has helped to stabilize some shaky areas and set the stage for additional residential and commercial development.
He and other developers say New Haven has many cultural and entertainment options within a walkable area and is reasonably well served by public transit.
This is the sort of transit-friendly climate ''that the Rose Smart Growth Investment Fund is focused on,'' said Dara Kovel, regional director for the Jonathan Rose Companies, a network of green-oriented development firms. The group's Smart Growth Fund recently formed a partnership with an affiliate of the Hurley Group of North Haven to buy an eight-story office building and a vacant bank building on Church Street, south of the New Haven Green.
By financing the $8 million acquisition under the Treasury Department's New Markets Tax Credit Program for economic development projects in qualifying low-income communities, the partners obtained an interest rate of around 4 percent, enough to allow them to plan for $3 million in energy-efficient improvements to the buildings, Ms. Kovel said.
The promise of green office space near mass transit has already helped the partners to attract a new environmentally conscious tenant: the Connecticut office of the Nature Conservancy signed a lease this month for the office building's third floor.
Although the buildings are on a stretch of Church Street that is still in transition, Ms. Kovel said, the developers are banking on the city's plan to relocate Gateway Community College diagonally across from theirs. The project will consolidate the college's two campuses -- at Long Wharf in the city and in North Haven -- at an estimated price tag of just under $200 million. Scheduled to break ground this summer, the project will be financed primarily through Connecticut bonds.
The New Haven office market is fairly tight as it is, largely because of the steady expansion of the university and Yale-New Haven Hospital, according to John Keogh, senior broker at Colliers Dow & Condon. The two entities have consumed about 1 percent of the total market annually for the last seven years, bringing the overall vacancy rate down to roughly 13 percent, and 8 percent in the central business district, Mr. Keogh said.
''This is a company town, simply put,'' he said.
Yale's expansion has recently spread beyond the downtown core to an old factory complex, formerly Winchester Repeating Arms, just north of campus. For decades, the city has worked with the nonprofit Science Park Development Corporation on various strategies for converting the complex into a center for bioscience companies. With the recent involvement of Winstanley Enterprises, a redevelopment company based in Concord, Mass., the enterprise has gained momentum.
After successfully developing 300 George Street, a bioscience building in downtown New Haven, Carter Winstanley, a company partner, began looking at 25 Science Park, a renovated factory building in need of tenants. He purchased the building in 2007 with an upfront commitment from Yale to take 160,000 of its 266,000 square feet. Since then, he has leased an additional 50,000 square feet to Higher One, a financial services company focused on higher education.
Now, Mr. Winstanley said, he hopes to resolve security and parking concerns that have stymied further development of the blighted area with construction of an 1,100-car parking garage. Adjacent to 25 Science Park, the garage will have glass-enclosed stairwells open to outside view and street-level retailing.
That project is still under way, but Mr. Winstanley is already planning the $20 million redevelopment of the former U.S. Repeating Arms Company, a 230,000-square-foot building on the other side of the garage on Winchester Street. Yale will take most of that space as well.
The city would like to lure more outside tenants to the Science Park, but having Yale there is just fine, said Kelly Murphy, the city's economic development administrator.
''They pay taxes when they're in commercial space,'' she said. ''That, from the city's perspective, is a really good thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bruce Becker, of Becker & Becker in Fairfield, is developing 360 State in New Haven, a 32-story apartment building.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Yale and city officials are trying to improve dicey parts of New Haven. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); GREEN BUILDING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1002 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1911 words

HEADLINE: Take This! Sort of French, Sort of Italian

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
HER fifth appetizer was like a knife in my heart.
When Kim Severson and I were set the challenge of making dueling dinners for six for $50 -- about the least one can spend on dinner for two in a Manhattan restaurant -- I was, frankly, unconcerned. As many readers know, a decent cook with a deep bench of pantry ingredients can easily make a great meal with $50 -- or $5.
Then I sat down at her table, and the icy reality of competition sank in. She was playing to win: her meal was big, delicious and interesting.
By the time she served a ceviche of tilefish, marinated in lime juice and triumph and spooned onto a handmade tortilla chip, I knew I would have to sweat as never before. 
Also, by then I was mad. She had accused me of lying down and refusing to fight. Kim comes from a family of hardworking dairy farmers and Olympic skiers. In mine, a game of Scrabble and an errand is considered a full day, and I have shunned competition since going down in the first round of the 1977 New York City spelling bee.
Cooking skills would not determine the victor. We are both enthusiastic home cooks, not trained chefs. My only chance lay in rock-solid menu planning.
This called for a visit to the Museum of Bad Ideas: mistakes in recipe choices or execution that I hope never to make again. A dessert recipe from Jean-Georges Vongerichten that calls for 13 Granny Smith apples, peeled and thinly sliced. (I still have hand cramps.) Steak au poivre for eight in a freshly painted white kitchen. (I still have smoke stains.) Embracing simplicity by serving a platter of naked steamed vegetables and a bowl of mayonnaise for dinner. (You can always order Chinese food afterward.)
I spent a couple of hours surrounded by grease-stained cookbooks and clippings, recalling the peaks of my lentil soup years, the best lamb stews of the 1990s, the finest lemon cake in living memory.
But would lentil soup impress? Could it win?
''What's the one best thing I have ever made?'' I demanded of friends and family, soliciting only the flattering details of my past.
The answers that came back proved my suspicion that French and Italian classics, combined with some twists on American tradition, would be popular. (It works for Thomas Keller.) That approach would also enable me to buy some key ingredients at Costco, where basic luxuries like nuts, cheese and dried fruit are good and cheap.
The flavors of tomato soup and grilled cheese sandwiches were paired: a cold soup made with canned tomatoes that suggests (but beats out) gazpacho, with a huge hit of cilantro; and gougeres, buttery egg-cheese puffs that make the house smell great. There is simply nothing better with a glass of wine -- sparkling, white or red -- and they can be made with any cheese lingering in the drawer, or something as inexpensive as plain American Cheddar at $3.99 a pound. As a fan of Cheddar, especially in melted form, I was happy to insert it into a French recipe for gougeres that I've made many times with expensive Gruyere, Roquefort and Parmigiano-Reggiano; it performed admirably.
At the last minute, I ditched some too-spicy chocolate cookies and spent the savings on half a pound of toasted walnuts, tossing them in white pepper, coarse salt and olive oil -- pantry ingredients all, but offering crunch and novelty next to the other appetizers.
Now, the menu needed something crisp and refreshing after the salty, cheesy pleasures of the appetizers. I was committed to using supermarket produce, but a trial run of celery salad did not go well. (''Not everyone,'' said my husband, choosing his words carefully, ''likes celery as much as you do.'') Tender, pale, ever-so-slightly-bitter hearts of escarole were better; perfect with a basic puree of anchovies, garlic, lemon and olive oil. (The escarole yielded a bonus, a mountain of dark outer leaves that were braised to fill a kind of lasagna the next day.)
Roast chicken is widely beloved, but has been played to death -- the Norah Jones of entrees. I knew it could not win on its own. Then I remembered a curiously satisfying experience I'd had of ripping up a roast chicken with my bare hands -- carving is so finicky and leaves so much behind -- and mixing the results with pasta, pine nuts, currants and rosemary. Using all of a chicken and its golden fat to sauce a pound and a half of pasta -- what could be more economical than that?
The only improvement I made on the original recipe, which comes from the Jewish community of Venice via the cookbook writer Claudia Roden, was to use thighs instead of a whole chicken: more meat, more fat, less money.
As someone who eats many gougeres or an entire breadbasket during the ravenous stage before dinner, I am not exactly hungry by the time dessert rolls around. In a cookbook by the Los Angeles chef Suzanne Goin, I found a speck of a recipe that sounded like a very upscale Creamsicle float (fresh tangerine juice, homemade vanilla ice cream).
Honey tangerines happened to be in season last week, so I was able to take advantage of a super-low bulk price. Knowing I could not afford a vanilla bean, I found an ice cream recipe that called for vanilla extract, and bought extra-delicious, all-natural heavy cream to compensate. (As it turns out, a pint of this grass-fed elixir costs more than Haagen-Dazs where I shop.) That brought my total to a resounding $38.04.
Served with a straw and a spoon, topped off with a cap of seltzer bubbles, this dessert was a smashing success the first time out.
A winner? I still don't know.
JULIA'S MENU
Cold Tomato-Cilantro Soup
Made from canned tomatoes, tomato paste and water -- no stock.
Cheddar Cheese Puffs
Inspired by gougeres, usually made with Gruyere and Parmigiano-Reggiano, these puffs are just as good made with American cheddar from Costco.
Toasted Walnuts With White Pepper and Olive Oil
* * *
Escarole With Anchovy-Garlic Vinaigrette
A can of anchovies in olive oil costs about a dollar and can revolutionize a salad.
* * *
Pasta With Roast Chicken, Currants, Pine Nuts and Rosemary
Chicken thighs are more succulent than whole chickens, for less money; dried rosemary makes a frugal, almost unnoticeable substititute for fresh.
* * *
Tangerine-Vanilla Floats
It's more cost-effective to splurge on produce than on protein. A dozen top-quality tangerines cost only $3; a top-quality roast of beef would cost twenty times that.
Note: A recipe for the soup and a full accounting of costs are at nytimes.com/dining.
Recipe: Cold Tomato-Cilantro Soup
Adapted from ''Mediterranean Light,'' by Martha Rose Shulman (Morrow, 2000)
Time: 45 minutes, plus 4 hours' cooling
1 large or 2 small bunches fresh cilantro
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 large onion, chopped
2 large or 3 small garlic cloves
1/4 cup tomato paste
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon paprika
Pinch cayenne pepper
1 28-ounce can tomatoes, whole or diced, with liquid
Salt and black pepper to taste
1 lime, halved.
1. Pull off a small handful of cilantro leaves to use for garnish and set aside. Tie remaining cilantro into a bundle with kitchen twine.
2. Heat oil in a deep, medium-size heavy pot over medium-high heat. Add onion and cook, stirring, until softened and golden, about 8 minutes; reduce heat as needed to prevent browning. Add garlic and cook, stirring, 1 minute; then add tomato paste, cumin, paprika and cayenne, and cook until tomato paste begins to darken, about 2 minutes more.
3. Add tomatoes with liquid, 1 quart water, salt and pepper, and cilantro bundle, and bring to a boil. Lower heat and simmer 30 minutes, covered. Set aside until cool enough to blend, then remove cilantro bundle. Using regular or hand-held blender, blend until smooth. Refrigerate until very cold, at least 4 hours or overnight.
4. Just before serving, squeeze in juice of half a lime and add salt and pepper to taste; the soup should not be very salty. If desired, squeeze in remaining lime juice. Serve in small bowls or cups, garnished with a few whole cilantro leaves.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
Recipe: Cheddar Cheese Puffs
Adapted from ''Party Appetizers,'' by Tori Ritchie (Chronicle Books, 2004)
Time: About 45 minutes
1 stick (8 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup all-purpose flour
4 large eggs, at room temperature
1 1/2 teaspoons dry mustard
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 1/2 cups (about 6 ounces) shredded sharp Cheddar cheese.
1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or nonstick baking mats. In a medium-size heavy saucepan, combine 1 cup water, the butter and salt, and bring to a boil. Turn off heat and add flour. Mix with a wooden spoon until dough starts to pull away from sides of pan and form a lump. Set aside, without stirring, 5 minutes.
2. Add eggs 1 at a time, mixing well after each addition. With each addition, dough will look glossy and slick at first; let it come together before adding next egg. Mix in mustard, cayenne and cheese. Dough will be quite loose and sticky.
3. Scoop up a heaping teaspoon of dough and use another spoon to scrape it onto lined pan; it should form a mound about an inch in diameter. Alternatively, use a pastry bag or thick plastic bag with one corner cut off, to pipe small mounds onto pan. Repeat with remaining dough, leaving 1/2 inch between puffs.
4. Bake until puffy and golden, about 25 minutes, rotating pans halfway through. Remove from oven and serve immediately, or turn oven off and open door slightly to keep puffs warm up to 1 hour.
Yield: About 36 puffs.
Recipe: Pasta With Roast Chicken, Currants and Pine Nuts
Adapted from ''The Book of Jewish Food,'' by Claudia Roden (Knopf, 1996)
Time: 45 minutes
3 1/2 pounds bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs, patted dry
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Paprika
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 1/2 pounds dried pasta, preferably bucatini or linguine
2 teaspoons crumbled dried rosemary
1/2 cup dried currants or raisins
2/3 cup pine nuts, toasted
3 tablespoons chopped parsley.
1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Arrange thighs in a large roasting pan, preferably nonstick. Thickly sprinkle with salt, pepper and paprika, and dot with butter. Bake until just cooked through and skin is crisp (if oven has a convection feature, use it), about 35 minutes.
2. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. When chicken is done, let cool slightly, then use hands (rubber gloves are helpful) to pull meat and skin from bones, making bite-size pieces. Reserve meat and skin in roasting pan; discard bones.
3. Meanwhile, add pasta to boiling water and cook just until tender but not mushy. Reserving 1 cup cooking water, drain pasta and add to roasting pan with chicken meat and skin. Add 1/2 cup pasta cooking water to roasting pan on stovetop and turn heat to low.
4. Add rosemary, currants and pine nuts to roasting pan and toss, adding more salt and black pepper to taste, and more cooking water if mixture seems dry. Sprinkle with parsley and serve immediately in shallow bowls.
Yield: 6 servings.
Recipe: Tangerine-Vanilla Floats
Adapted from ''Sunday Suppers at Lucques,'' by Suzanne Goin with Teri Gelber (Knopf, 2005)
Time: 10 minutes
6 large scoops vanilla ice cream
3 cups freshly squeezed tangerine juice (from about 12 tangerines) or orange juice (see note)
Seltzer.
Divide ice cream among 6 medium-size glasses or cups. Add 1/2 cup tangerine juice to each cup and top off with seltzer. Serve with a straw.
Yield: 6 servings.
Note: Fresh orange juice can be used instead of tangerine juice, but it should be very sweet and not too acidic. Try adding superfine sugar to taste.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
TO WHET THE APPETITE: Cheddar cheese puffs go golden in about 25 minutes.
 TINY SIPS: Tomato-cilantro soup may be served in small bowls or cups. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); CHEESE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SKIING (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (54%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1003 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Play The Rescue Game

 BODY:
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, has offered generous financing to the private investors to help bail out banks. His promise of lots of cheap leverage could make investments in toxic assets attractive. But ingenious minds will probably find elaborate ways to play Mr. Geithner's game. Here are two ideas.
The first game is for banks. A bank sells $7 million in so-called legacy loans. It then reinvests $1 million of the proceeds in a fund, receives another $1 million in equity from the government and borrows $12 million with a guarantee from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The fund then buys $14 million in loans that are nearly identical to the ones the bank sold, paying the same price if it can. The bank can now reap half the gains on a $14 million portfolio, rather than retaining all of the upside from its original $7 million of loans. But it has capped its downside at $1 million, rather than $7 million.
The second game is for investors. Here the investor spreads his bets among funds with different approaches to buying legacy securities. Some focus on residential or commercial mortgages, others on credit card loans, in different vintages and geographies. The aim is to make sure that, even if some funds plummet in value, others do well.
Imagine playing Colony of Vultures with just two funds. Our investor, who has $2 million to play with, puts $1 million each into Vulture 1 and Vulture 2. The two Vultures now borrow $9 million apiece from the Federal Reserve, giving them each $10 million to invest. Vulture 1 makes 30 percent; Vulture 2 falls 30 percent.
This might seem like a dumb strategy that leaves the investor flat. But the availability of nonrecourse funds, meaning the loans are backed only by the assets they have purchased, changes the outcome. Vulture 1 is now worth $13 million. After paying back the $9 million loan, the investor has $4 million. He loses all the $1 million he has put into Vulture 2, but the remaining losses are absorbed by taxpayers. Our investor ends up doubling his original $2 million stake.
These are hypothetical examples that don't take into account interest charges on the debt or any restrictions the authorities might impose on such tricks. There is also the risk that the banks may not be able to find toxic loans identical to the ones they are selling and that all the vultures might plummet simultaneously. Nonetheless, there should be enough fun and games to keep financiers entertained and wealthy.
Morality Bonuses
You can't legislate morality. But moral behavior can sometimes ward off terrible legislation. For example, some public-spiritedness from bankers may protect them from persecution on bonuses.
Congress is debating a tax on bonuses that makes thoughtful defenders of capitalism blanch. A punitive 90 percent rate on some bonuses might bring suffering to a few greedy speculators, but many others would slip through the net, while a number of innocent, hard-working professionals would get caught in it.
As lawmakers and citizens fume, some bonus recipients are discovering their consciences, including 15 of the top earners at American International Group's derivatives unit. The threat of punitive legislation, not to mention death, has surely affected their thinking. Such suasion may be rough, but it's better than codifying revenge.
What happens next? Conversions made at gunpoint are often reversed at the first opportunity, but these could prove more durable. The rationale of the bonus entitlement culture has been exposed as false. Even its former beneficiaries are now feeling less cocky.
Solidarity has come into fashion with taxpayer rescues. That may mean fewer Maseratis, but the shift is good for capitalism. The system works badly if the poor, always a majority, feel the rich are getting a good deal unfairly. But if the rich show moderation, class warfare is less of a threat to economic development.
Some bonus-deprived bankers may grouse. But they should remember that politics rules. In the current charged environment, the most likely alternative to voluntary sacrifice is forced expropriation.
HUGO DIXON and EDWARD HADAS
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maserati's new GranTurismo S arrived in New York recently. Anger over A.I.G. bonuses may mean fewer Maseratis for executives, but that may be good for capitalism.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MASERATI NORTH AMERICA, VIA PRNEWSFOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1004 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: A Health Plan for All And the Concerns It Raises

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
It is one of the most contentious health care proposals President Obama has floated: offer a federal, Medicare-like insurance plan to anyone, at any age. And let commercial insurers offer their private health plans alongside it.
''It gives consumers more choices, and it helps keep the private sector honest, because there's some competition out there,'' Mr. Obama said this month at a health care forum in Washington.
But the insurance industry and others wary of too much government intervention vehemently oppose the idea. They say the heavy hand of the government will eventually push out the private insurers, leaving the government option as the only option. That is why the industry seems unwilling to give ground on the issue, even while making other concessions to national health reform -- like the industry's announcement on Tuesday that it might be willing to stop charging sick people higher rates than healthy customers. 
The debate is over how best to provide coverage to the nearly 50 million people in the United States who do not have health insurance, while also trying to rein in the nation's galloping health care costs. While the details of a federal insurance plan remain vague, a central question is whether it would function like Medicare -- wielding the government's size and clout to essentially dictate the prices it pays for medical care.
If so, the government's main advantage over the private sector would be to demand much lower prices from doctors and hospitals than private insurers are able to negotiate. It could then pass those savings along to consumers in much lower premiums than the private plans might be able to offer. Critics say such a system would eventually force private insurers out of business.
''There's no way to run a side-by-side competition within the current structure,'' said Karen Ignagni, the chief executive of America's Health Insurance Plans, the industry's trade association. If the unstated and eventual goal of the public plan is to push private insurers out of the way -- a de facto nationalization of health care -- ''let's have a debate on a government-run system,'' Ms. Ignagni said.
The president's idea has been supported by many in Congress, including Senator Max Baucus, the Democrat from Montana who is chairman of the Finance Committee and has proposed a similar kind of public option. But across the aisle, some legislators who are considered critical to achieving bipartisan support for health reform have voiced concerns.
''There's a lot of us that feel that the public option, that the government is an unfair competitor,'' Senator Charles E. Grassley, a Republican from Iowa who is influential on health issues, said at the president's meeting.
Even Mr. Obama has acknowledged that those concerns are valid, and it is unclear how the government plan could be set up to give insurers a fair chance to compete.
The main selling point for a government-run program would be its low cost. It would have a much lower overhead than private plans, with no need to make a profit or spend money on marketing or brokers' commissions. And, if allowed to flex its muscle, the government would buy medical care at much lower prices.
Bryan Dowd, a health policy expert at the University of Minnesota, is critical of private insurers but does not necessarily favor a government plan. He agrees that the private insurers will never be able to match the steep discounts the government can demand. ''If discount-getting is all you do, a large public plan is always going to clean your clock,'' he said.
But supporters of a public plan say that its low price would impose greater discipline on insurers by forcing them to keep costs in check and make their policies affordable -- something they say commercial insurers have seemed especially unable to do in providing coverage to small businesses and individuals.
''It would transform the market for private insurance,'' said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a health policy research group. She estimates the average premium for a family of four would run around $9,000 a year under a public plan, in contrast to nearly $11,000 for a typical private alternative. The savings to the nation's health care bill over the next decade could run into the trillions of dollars, she said.
And many supporters say the government must be able to curb costs if it is going to expand coverage for people who are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid but might still require some sort of subsidy to buy insurance. The only way to control costs, they say, is to engage the purchasing power of a Medicare-like system.
''The Medicare program is a real success story,'' said Jacob S. Hacker, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who is a longtime advocate of a federal plan.
While private health insurance premiums increased an average of 7.3 percent annually from 1997 to 2006, Mr. Hacker said, Medicare spending per enrollee rose only 4.6 percent a year for the same benefits.
Private insurers will be able to compete with a federal plan, he said, by offering a wider range of benefits and being more flexible in how they work with doctors and hospitals. ''A lot of people are going to want to be in a private plan,'' he said.
But many hospital executives object strenuously to the idea of a new program that would behave like Medicare.
''Medicare has systematically been underpaying for services,'' said Dr. Denis A. Cortese, the chief executive of the Mayo Clinic, the highly regarded health system in Minnesota. If more patients are enrolled in a Medicare-like program, he predicted, ''your very best providers will go out of business'' or stop seeing patients covered by the government plan.
Doctors also worry about being underpaid. Dr. Nancy H. Nielsen, president of the American Medical Association, issued a statement saying in part: ''Advocates for a public plan need to put a concrete proposal on the table so we can evaluate the details. We have a long history of public programs that are not adequately funded, resulting in cuts to those who provide health care.''
No consensus has yet emerged over exactly how a federal plan might work. Some proponents envision an expansion of the current Medicare program to those younger than 65 -- although with fewer government subsidies.
Others argue that an entirely new government program should be created. And some contend that the only way a public plan would be viewed as fair to private insurers would be if the government did not try to use its pricing power.
''The definition of what a public plan option is is all over the place,'' said Amanda Austin, senior manager for legislative affairs for the National Federation of Independent Business, which represents the interests of small businesses. Her group prefers to work with private insurers, she said, but is withholding judgment on whether to support some variation of a public option until the proposal has been made clear.
Some policy experts say a compromise can be struck. They advocate a public plan that would be required to negotiate with doctors and hospitals on a level playing field with commercial insurers, rather than have the government set prices a la Medicare.
Because the public plan would still have much lower overhead costs, it would encourage private insurers to work harder for customers, said Len Nichols, a health economist at the New America Foundation, a public policy institute that advocates health care changes.
''It puts pressure on the private sector status quo,'' he said, but avoids using ''the nuclear weapon'' of government price controls -- which he thinks is so controversial that it could derail the discussion.
But some wonder if there is any point in having the government play the insurance game at all if it cannot use its full advantage. ''It isn't a public plan, so why have it?'' said Stuart M. Butler, a policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a policy research organization that advocates limited government involvement in the marketplace.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Henry Waxman questioning President Obama during a health care forum. Congress is trying to address the problem of the nearly 50 million people without health insurance.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B4) DRAWING (B1)
 CHART: Policy Spectrum: As policy makers debate the possibility of placing a federal health insurance option alongside commercial offerings, various approaches are under discussion. Support for each approach depends on whether the advocate favors more, or less, government control of the health care system. Chart details Government control policies.(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAX BAUCUS (55%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (55%); HENRY WAXMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1005 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Problems Persist, but Arts Advocates See Progress Under Obama

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Washington continues to be consumed by economic turmoil, but cultural professionals say they are cautiously optimistic about the future of the arts under President Obama. Among the positive signs: The $50 million in stimulus money going to the National Endowment for the Arts, the additional $10 million for the Endowment in the recent omnibus spending bill and the decision to give a White House official responsibility for arts and culture, though this has yet to be announced.
There is still a considerable distance to go, arts advocates say. More than two months into his presidency, Mr. Obama has yet to name a new chairman of the Endowment. This leaves the country's most important arts agency without a permanent chief, as arts groups around the country scramble to submit their applications for stimulus funds by the April 2 deadline.
The $50 million in stimulus money apportioned to the Endowment -- after a fight in Congress to get any money at all -- is not a lot, given that it is to be distributed nationwide. Moreover, only groups that have received grants in the last four years are eligible to apply. The Endowment said this was to make sure that all applicants had been vetted at least once by the agency's peer panels, who will select the stimulus grantees. 
Robert L. Lynch, the president of Americans for the Arts, a lobbying group, called the requirement limiting. ''There are 100,000 arts organizations out there,'' he said. ''They're all in need.''
The $10 million increase for the Endowment -- the same amount given to the National Endowment for the Humanities -- brings the annual budget to $155 million, still considerably short of its high, $176 million, in 1992.
It is ''a step up from what we've had before,'' said Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a New York Democrat who is co-chairwoman of the Congressional Arts Caucus. ''I don't think we're yet up to where we were.'' And, she added, ''I would certainly like to see that.''
Still, Ms. Slaughter said she was heartened that the administration's point person for the arts would be working out of the West Wing, rather than from the first lady's office, as in the past.
Shin Inouye, a White House spokesman, said, ''President Obama recognizes that support for creative expression is an essential part of who we are as a nation and he is committed to ensuring that the arts community has an open line to the White House.''
The staff member charged with the arts portfolio, Kareem Dale, is relatively young (in his 30s) and potentially overextended (he is already special assistant to the president for disability policy) with little arts experience. And his position has yet to be defined. Mr. Dale is expected to serve temporarily and to be replaced by someone with full-time responsibility for the arts, said a White House official, who asked to remain anonymous because personnel issues had yet to be resolved.
Mr. Dale, who was trained as a lawyer and is partly blind, served on policy committees for arts and for disability when Mr. Obama was an Illinois senator. Mr. Dale will work in the Office of Public Liaison and Intergovernmental Affairs under Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to the president.
Mr. Dale served for nearly five years as chairman of the Black Ensemble Theater in Chicago, succeeding his father, Bob Dale, an advertising executive. As chairman, Mr. Dale helped raise $15 million for a new building, said Jackie Taylor, the theater's founder and executive director.
''He was very strong,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''He was a good leader.''
Ms. Taylor said Mr. Dale's first involvement with the company was onstage as a teenager; he had a small role in a musical in 1991. ''His father wanted him to get past his shyness and to be an extrovert,'' she said. ''So we put him in a production.''
Of the stimulus money, 40 percent will be distributed by formula to state arts agencies and regional arts organizations. The remaining 60 percent will go toward individual projects.
''It's good, but when you consider the United States of America, they're trying to do a lot with a little,'' said Celeste M. Lawson, executive director of the Arts Council in Buffalo and Erie County in upstate New York.
Until 1995 the Endowment gave grants to individual artists and also allowed organizations to use grants for general operating funds. The so-called culture wars put an end to both practices.
''I am a passionate supporter of unrestricted operating support,'' said Margot Knight, president and chief executive of United Arts of Central Florida, which raises funds for arts and science organizations. ''We need an Endowment for this new century.''
During the presidential campaign Mr. Obama was one of the few candidates with an arts platform and an arts policy committee. During his transition he dedicated a team to the arts and humanities.
Just what shape the Endowment will take under the Obama administration will depend largely upon whom the president appoints as the agency's chairman. Patrice Walker Powell, the Endowment's deputy chairwoman for states, regions and local arts agencies, has been serving as interim chairwoman since Feb. 2.
Michael C. Dorf, a lawyer who served on Mr. Obama's arts policy team during the campaign and was an adviser during the transition, emerged as an early favorite, and a few other names have been floated. But there have been no concrete developments, even as cultural organizations are cutting back drastically or closing their doors because of the economic downturn.
Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington, chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the National Endowment for the Arts, said convincing his fellow legislators of the importance of the arts remained a challenge. ''There are still some people in the House -- a handful of Democrats and a significant number of Republicans -- who vote against us,'' he said.
He said Mr. Obama had requested $161 million for the Endowment for the coming fiscal year, which starts in October. ''I think that's a little modest,'' Mr. Dicks said, adding he thought that the budgets for both the arts and humanities endowments should increase to $170 million.
''There was a big reduction when the Republicans cut us,'' he added, referring to a 40 percent reduction in the budget in 1995. ''We're still coming back from that.''
Given the battle in Congress to include money for the arts in the stimulus package, cultural groups say Washington officials still fail to recognize artists as workers. ''The third violinist in a chamber orchestra goes out and buys groceries just like everybody else,'' said Bill Ivey, a former chairman of the Endowment.
Teresa Eyring, the executive director of the Theater Communications Group, which represents the country's nonprofit theaters, said: ''Local and regional elected officials and community leaders are seeing and talking about the connection between the arts and the overall health of their communities. The same sensibility hasn't quite landed at the national level.''
''In President Obama we have a leader who is making the connection,'' she added, ''who seems to understand both the spiritual and economic necessity of the arts to our nation's strength.''
Mr. Ivey, who led the transition team devoted to the arts and recently met with Mr. Dale, said he expected the White House position to involve coordinating the work of the Endowment, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Institute of Museum and Library Services.
''It's great to have a direct West Wing connection,'' Mr. Ivey said.
''I don't think we've ever had an administration that thought about the vibrancy of our cultural life as a central public policy,'' he added, ''as a marker of quality of life in a democracy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama with, from left, the comedian Bill Cosby and the singers Lizz Wright, Denyce Graves and James Taylor at the Kennedy Center in Washington this month.(POOL PHOTO BY CHRIS USHER)
 Kareem Dale is to be the Obama administration's point person for the arts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT CILLEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); LOBBYING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1006 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2080 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
CZECH PARLIAMENT VOTES
No Confidence in Government
The Czech government's loss of a parliamentary vote of no confidence has severely undermined the country's ability to guide the European Union during this hazardous economic time, experts say. Unlike in Iceland or Latvia, infighting, not economics, seemed to be responsible for the instability. Page A8
ISRAEL COALITION ADDS LABOR PARTY
Israel's deeply divided Labor Party voted to join the coalition being formed by Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's conservative prime minister-designate. The addition of the party creates a broader government than the one Mr. Netanyahu may have hoped for. It may also mean easier international acceptance and less friction with the Obama administration. Page A8 
CONFERENCE IN SOUTH AFRICA IS OFF
Organizers of a peace conference to be held in Johannesburg have canceled the event after the South African government barred the Dalai Lama from entering the country. Page A9
U.S. TO SEND AGENTS TO BORDER
The Obama administration announced it would shift hundreds of federal agents to America's southern border in an effort to contain possible drug-related violence spilling over from Mexico. Page A10
FRANCE TO COMPENSATE TESTERS
France has acknowledged a possible link between its nuclear weapons testing and health problems among people conducting the tests. It has agreed to pay compensation to those suffering from sickness associated with radiation. Page A11
SPIKE IN EXECUTIONS SINCE 2007
Executions worldwide have doubled since 2007, with China having put more people to death than any other nation, according to a report by Amnesty International. Page A11
SITE SAYS CHINA BLOCKED YOUTUBE
China has blocked the video-sharing site YouTube, Google said. The Web site said it did not know the reason for the block. A Chinese news agency said it was because supporters of the Dalai Lama had uploaded a fabricated video that appeared to show police officers beating civilians after last year's riots in Tibet's capital. Page A14
Moscow Journal
Volunteers in Moscow's Streets
You can spot them in Moscow's streets marked by red armbands, sometimes with body piercings but often with smiles. They are the druzhiniki, civilian volunteers who are patrolling with increasing frequency next to the police. The volunteers bolster the professionals' ranks and in some cases counter their aggression. Page A15
National
RANCHERS PLAGUED BY SPIKE
In Cattle Rustling
Ranchers in several states are facing a wave of cattle rustling, which some law enforcement officials have tied to the economic downturn. ''Usually we'll go a year or two with no thefts, but it's really picked up,'' a Missouri sheriff said. ''In these economic times people are taking desperate measures.'' PAGE A16
COURT HEARS CAMPAIGN LAW CASE
During a lively argument at the Supreme Court -- involving a documentary attacking Hillary Rodham Clinton -- it seemed possible that five justices were prepared to overturn or significantly limit parts of the court's 2003 decision upholding the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law, which regulates the role of money in politics. PAGE A16
REPORT FAULTS LABOR AGENCY
The Government Accountability Office found that the Labor Department's Wage and Hour Division, the federal agency charged with enforcing minimum wage, overtime and many other labor laws, is failing in that role, leaving millions of workers vulnerable. PAGE A16
STUDY LINKS CORTEX TO DEPRESSION
Scientists who have been following families with a history of depression have found structural differences in family members' brains -- specifically, a significant thinning of the right cortex, the brain's outermost surface. PAGE A17
SPECTER WON'T BACK UNION BILL
Senator Arlen Specter, the lone Republican to side with Democrats on the Senate's last vote on union-organizing legislation, said that he would not vote for this session's bill. PAGE A17
DEVICE COULD GIVE CLUES TO CRASH
Federal investigators said that they had recovered a device that records engine data they hoped would shed light on the cause of the crash of a single-engine propeller plane near the airport in Butte, Mont., which killed all 14 people aboard. PAGE A21
FIRED PROFESSOR DEFENDS WORK
A former University of Colorado professor spent nearly six hours defending his scholarly work during cross-examination in his lawsuit contending that he was fired for a controversial essay he wrote about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. PAGE A22
Texas Judge Denies Charges A22
Obituaries
GEORGE KELL, 86
A Hall of Fame third baseman, he won the American League batting title in 1949 with the Detroit Tigers and was a longtime broadcaster for the team. He was an All-Star 10 times during his playing career. PAGE B11
New York
CIVIL SERVICE OFFICIAL
Rigged Jobs, Report Says
A former acting commissioner of the State Department of Taxation and Finance illegally secured tenured state jobs for herself and nine other lawyers by manipulating civil service exams, according to a report. The findings prompted Gov. David A. Paterson to say he would seek an overhaul of the civil service system. Page A23
CREDIT CARDS HELP FLOAT TAXIS
The Taxi and Limousine Commission has amassed new data about the yellow cab industry. Cabbies work, on average, nine and a half hours a day and are busiest between 6 and 8 p.m. Despite the recession, work has stayed relatively steady. And the industry may owe it all to credit cards. Page A23
Business
OBAMA AND INSURANCE COMPANIES
Weigh Health Care Options
The Obama administration has offered the idea of a Medicare-like insurance plan for anyone at any age. Insurance companies have dug in their heels, wary of too much governmental control. But how best to provide for the nearly 50 million Americans without insurance? Specifics are vague, but a main question is whether the plan would enable the government to dictate the prices it pays for medical care. Page B1
A FEW HEDGE FUND MANAGERS SOAR
While the financial crisis has reduced much of Wall Street's wealth to dross, a small group of hedge fund managers seem to have dodged the ill effects. Twenty-five top managers pulled in a total of $11.6 billion by trading above the pain in the markets, according to a report by the Institutional Investor's Alpha Magazine. Page B1
Sports
WOMEN'S TENNIS OFFICIAL
To Become Pac-10 Commissioner
The Pacific-10 Conference announced that Larry Scott, the chief executive and chairman of the Women's Tennis Association, would become the Pac-10's new commissioner. While he admits he's not the traditional candidate, he said his experience has prepared him for the job. Page B15
JAPAN'S APPROACH TO BASEBALL
Ichiro Suzuki sat far from Japan's newly won World Baseball Classic trophy at a recent news conference, giving it the spotlight. The message was clear: the trophy is the star, it belongs to Japan and the team, no matter the performance of one player. Page B17
ARTS
ADVOCATES OF THE ARTS
See Signs of Progress
Cultural professionals say they are cautiously optimistic about the future of the arts under President Obama. Among the positive signs: $50 million in stimulus money going to the National Endowment for the Arts, an additional $10 million for the endowment in the recent omnibus spending bill and a decision to give a White House official responsibility for culture. PAGE C1
Film
At Film Festival, Realism Rules
''Amreeka,'' the opening film of the 2009 New Directors/New Films series, follows the odyssey of a Palestinian woman living on the West Bank who receives a green card and moves to a small Illinois town. The film reaffirms social realism's validity as humanistic art with an educational frisson, Stephen Holden writes. PAGE C1
'MOTHERHOOD,' HOLD THE IDEAS
After drawing millions of views online, ''In the Motherhood,'' a Web video series about three moms, was transformed into a television sitcom. But what made the Web series unique, an interactive style of storytelling, was quashed by the legal engine of Hollywood, viewers say. PAGE C1
CLASH OF THE JAZZ IMPRESARIOS
Concert promoters, booking agents and others in the jazz world say that because of a rift between Festival Network and the impresario George Wein, it is possible that New York will lack a big festival for the first time in 37 years. PAGE C3
Books of the Times
Dispatches From the Streets
''Land of the Lost Souls,'' a new memoir about being homeless on New York City's streets, from a writer known as Cadillac Man, finds its center of gravity in the grim particulars of loss and brute survival, Dwight Garner writes. PAGE C6
Dining
The Pour
Wine Special in Aisle 3?
Could Be Soon in New York
In more than half the United States you can purchase your wine at the grocery store. But New York has yet to allow this. Wine must be sold by a licensed vendor. On April 1, Gov. David A. Paterson's 2009 budget will be submitted for approval. In it, grocery stores would be allowed to sell wine, complete with an excise tax. Page D1
A Good Appetite
Sausage, the Easier Way
Making your own sausages is satisfying, Melissa Clark writes, not to mention good for culinary bragging rights. But between the grinding and the skins, it can be quite a project. Good thing you can buy ground meat, and skins aren't necessary, especially with this recipe for homemade merguez. Page D2
OUT TO EAT AT THE BALLGAME
When the new Yankee Stadium opens for business there will be greater eating variety. And in the various club and suite areas the choices will expand further, some even overseen by celebrity chefs. Page D2
Food Stuff
To Tide You Over Until Summer D3
A Spoonful of Japan D3
Bella Cucina Joins the Menu D3
Restaurants: Bouley --- D5
Dining Briefs
Atria and the Vinegar Hill House
Atria, on Midtown's West Side, is one of those establishments that falls into a gray area between lounge and restaurant. It's a catchy experiment in Japanese-Mexican fusion, but perhaps rigged for headier times. The Vinegar Hill House on Brooklyn's waterfront is always packed. In the warm and welcoming atmosphere, the food is worth the inevitable wait. Page D5
Editorial
OBAMA'S VOW ON NUCLEAR ARMS
During the 2008 campaign, President Obama promised to deal with one of the world's great scourges -- thousands of nuclear weapons still in the arsenals of the United States and Russia. Mr. Obama said that he would resume arms control negotiations and seek deep cuts in pursuit of an eventual nuclear-free world. There is no time to waste. Page A24
ACCESS TO MORNING-AFTER PILLS
A federal judge in New York wisely ordered the Food and Drug Administration to make the morning-after pill available without prescription to women as young as 17 and to consider approving it for girls of any age, as major medical groups have long advocated. Page A24
THANKS A LOT, ALBANY
Stunning fare increases and service cuts across the New York City area are being adopted. Commuters should quickly call their state senators. A plan to spare most of this transit agony is stuck in Albany. Page A24
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Presidents never come out of the box and deliver the scale of progress and change they have promised, according to one of America's most experienced pollsters. Not because they are cynical, but because events conspire against them. What distinguishes the best leaders is that they are able to learn from their crashes, adjust and succeed. Page A25
DEAR A.I.G., I QUIT!
In his letter of resignation from American International Group, published on the Op-Ed page, Jake DeSantis, the executive vice president of A.I.G.'s financial products unit, argues that the giant insurance company's chief executive officer should have stood up for blameless employees in front of Congress and the press. And he reveals how he plans to spend what's left of his bonus. Page A25
SKILLETS AND CARVING KNIVES:
Dinner at 20 Paces Under $50
The Times's Kim Severson and Julia Moskin are pitted against each other in a culinary bout: making dinner for six without spending more than $50. Page D1
A Bold Frontal Attack
The lynchpin of Kim Severson's strategy was a corn tortilla. But an untested dish is risky to try on guests. So she spent her weekend making practice tortillas to better showcase her big pot of carnitas. Page D1
An Elegant Riposte
Julia Moskin knew she had a fight on her hands when she sat down at Kim Severson's table, so she rallied with a pasta with roast chicken, started by a cold tomato-cilantro soup. Page D1
And the Judge's Decision...
Frank Bruni evaluates two meals made by two colleagues -- a task made more difficult because he sits between them in the office. Page D7

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); RIOTS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); SHERIFFS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (55%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); DALAI LAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); ICELAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); LATVIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1007 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: A Strategy When Times Are Tough: 'It's New!'

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THEY say money is the mother's milk of politics. In marketing, it is new products, meant to pique the interest of consumers and thereby stimulate demand at stores, restaurants and dealer showrooms.
 In tough times, it would seem the flow of new products would be slowed by companies fearing that shoppers have too much on their minds to consider still another cereal, soap or soup.
 But as the recession grinds on, Madison Avenue is serving up a steady stream of new packaged foods, cars, drugs (prescription and otherwise), menu items (for both sit-down and fast-food restaurants) and beverages ( alcoholic and otherwise). 
 The new product pitches are coming from all manner of marketers, from global behemoths -- among them Campbell Soup, General Mills, Mars and Unilever -- to family-owned companies like Sargento Foods.
 One reason to stay the course on new products is that they can offer marketers new reasons to reach out to consumers when the impulse may be to pull back.
 ''There's a saying: 'When times are good, advertise. When times are tough, advertise more,' '' said Dan Beem, president at Cold Stone Creamery in Scottsdale, Ariz., the ice-cream chain owned by the Kahala Corporation. ''We want to stay with that philosophy.''
 Cold Stone is bringing out, and promoting, new products like ice cream cupcakes, iced and blended coffee drinks, Jell-O Pudding Ice Cream and a line of cheesecakes.
 The hope is that amid the changes consumers are making in buying habits, ''they're still looking for that 10-minute vacation at Cold Stone,'' Mr. Beem said. ''Our goal is to introduce some new products that will encourage them to go with the family to the parlor.'' Another reason to keep filling the new-product pipeline is that successful newcomers can bring in much-needed revenue. According to the annual New Product Pacesetters report from Information Resources Inc., the top new food product of 2008, the G2 sports drink from PepsiCo, generated sales of $159.1 million, and the top new nonfood product last year, the Zyrtec allergy medication sold by a unit of Johnson & Johnson, took in $315.9 million.
 There still is ''opportunity in this kind of economic weather,'' said Stefan Holwe, managing partner at Plantage, an agency in Berlin that is creating a worldwide campaign to introduce this month the 2010 Cabrio convertible for the Mini division of BMW.
 ''It's a good time to do a campaign for Mini,'' Mr. Holwe said, because of ''the relevance of the brand in these really difficult times.'' Mini sales in the United States, where some elements of the Plantage campaign will appear, rose 28 percent last year compared with 2007.
 To hedge their bets on the multimillion-dollar costs of introductions, many marketers bring out new products under the banner of brands that consumers already know well, in what is known as line extensions.
 Examples include the new Pantene Nature Fusion line of hair care products from Procter & Gamble, the new Glade Sense & Spray air freshener from S. C. Johnson & Son and new flavors of Honeycomb and Post Select cereals sold by a unit of Ralcorp Holdings.
 Reckitt Benckiser named a new bleach-alternative stain remover Spray 'n Wash Bright & White although unlike Spray 'n Wash, which is sprayed on clothes before they are washed, the new product is added to the laundry along with detergent.
 ''The Spray 'n Wash name sounds weird for an in-wash product,'' acknowledged Laurie Labesque, marketing director for fabric care at Reckitt Benckiser in Parsippany, N.J., but it made sense to ''extend an existing brand name'' that has been promoted to consumers for decades.
 The new product did well in tests, Ms. Labesque said, because the idea that ''it can extend the life of your clothes'' resonated in this economy.
 Similarly, when Haagen-Dazs considered introducing an ice cream composed of five natural ingredients, a decision was made to place it under the umbrella of the Haagen-Dazs brand of superpremium desserts and name it Haagen-Dazs Five. 
 ''To tell you the truth, part of the reason we called it Five is that we have modest marketing dollars and wouldn't have a lot of money to explain what it was,'' said Ching-Yee Hu, brand manager for Haagen-Dazs at Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream in Oakland, Calif., a division of Nestle that sells the brand in the United States under license from the Haagen-Dazs owner, General Mills.
 ''We would've liked a name that was a little less literal,'' she added, but on the other hand, it has the benefit of being short. 
 The campaign to introduce Haagen-Dazs Five includes house parties, supervised by a company called SheSpeaks, at which the hosts offer samples of the new ice cream to guests.
 ''This is a very good time for brands to get out there in new and different ways,'' said Aliza Freud, chief executive at SheSpeaks in New York.
 Because of the economy, ''consumers are talking about reassessing their brand favorites,'' she added, ''not necessarily to trade down, but if they think they can get a better value at the same price.''
 Members of SheSpeaks were recently polled on their attitudes about trying new products in light of the economic downturn, Ms. Freud said. Of the respondents, 44.4 percent said they were more likely to try them and 42.3 percent said they were equally likely.
 Only 13.3 percent of the respondents said the economy made them less likely to try new products because ''this is not a time to experiment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of the claims for Reckitt Benckiser's new Spray 'n Wash Bright & White, a bleach-alternative stain remover, is that it can help clothes last longer. A promotion was held in February at Grand Central Terminal in New York.
 In an example of a line extension, a new ice cream made of five natural ingredients will be marketed under the umbrella of the Haagen-Dazs brand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); SOFT DRINKS (74%); MISC FOOD MFG (73%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SPORTS DRINKS (69%)

COMPANY: KAHALA COLD STONE HOLDING CO (82%); INFORMATION RESOURCES INC (63%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (56%); PEPSICO INC (52%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%); GIS (NYSE) (56%); PEP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1008 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: At Every Turn, His Sleight of Hand

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
WILL someone please explain David Bouley to me? Any takers? Is that a raised hand I see in the back?
 Thought not. It's a fool's errand, trying to wring sense out of the way this great, eccentric chef lurches from lulls of unremarkable enterprise to frenzied periods of overextension. 
 One such period began late last year, when he simultaneously expanded the restaurant Upstairs, reinvented the restaurant Danube (it's now Secession, serving French instead of Austrian fare), and, for good measure, with all his free time, uprooted and relocated his eponymous flagship -- the locus of his legend -- from a trademark setting that defined it for many diners to a new space down the block.
 Attention to that last, most consequential part has been strangely lost amid the wider whirl of Bouley activity, which extends even to the plotting of a new cooking school and Japanese restaurant in the same patch of TriBeCa where the rest of this has been taking place. 
 But the curious silence surrounding the transplanted Bouley doesn't indicate a slipshod redo or botched job like Secession, which debuted with a nonsensical menu and clownish service. In Bouley World nothing adds up that neatly and cleanly. 
 In fact the new Bouley is a labor of obvious and obsessive love, its decor preferable to that of the old Bouley, whose purplish pink color scheme and candied gloss always left me feeling that I was supping inside a gigantic magenta gumdrop.
 The new Bouley's clearest design link to its forebear is the vestibule, where Mr. Bouley has once again assembled shelf upon shelf of apples, hundreds of them, replaced often enough to stay fresh and fill the air with an orchard's worth of perfume.
 And the atmosphere remains a madly, sappily romantic one. At few other Manhattan restaurants do you find tapered, flamboyant candles, as opposed to circumspect little votives. They rise high from the tables in the center of the dining room, and all around, everywhere you look, are other bits of beauty, or at least gilt.
 Above: a vaulted ceiling, as at the old Bouley, only it's brushed with gold leaf. To the side: a fireplace with a hearth hauled in from France. All around: gigantic Impressionist-style paintings -- manque Monets -- that are framed in velvet and evoke the French countryside. Underground: restrooms so elegant the walls are upholstered.
 In an era when the trend in restaurants is toward sleek minimalism, Bouley is a thrilling blast from the gaudy past, a reminder of how much pleasure can be had just from being tucked into such opulent chambers and attended with such formal manners. The servers are punctilious. Numerous, too. 
 While a three-course dinner here will set you back at least $75, not counting tax, tip or drinks, you'll never wonder where that money is going. Only Daniel -- which, interestingly, also spruced itself up recently, just in time for the recession -- and Per Se give you quite the same feeling of giddy privilege.
 And no restaurant outdoes Bouley when it comes to dessert. Even for diners who don't order a long tasting menu, Bouley stretches dessert into at least three chapters, beginning with an amuse bouche of sorts and ending with many tiers of magnificent petits fours.
 The amuse of late has been a so-called coconut soup that's better than the best proper dessert at lesser restaurants. Combining a creamy yogurt sorbet with passion fruit and pineapple, it nails an interplay of sweet and tart that couldn't be more finely orchestrated. 
 And some of the desserts themselves are really two, three or even four desserts in one. The ''chocolate frivolous'' seems to have come straight out of a chocoholic's fever dream, with a half-dozen components, some molten, some custardy, some crisp, all transcendent.
 Even so, I'm not sure that's the direction in which I would steer the chocolate lover, only because there's an equally compelling option, an envelope of caramelized Anjou pear enfolding a mixture of biscuit and chocolate that calls to mind an haute S'mores. To its side is a scoop of ice cream with a vanilla flavor so pure and sharp it's startling.
 A meal at Bouley has many such peaks, but it has valleys, too, and now as in 2004, when I gave the restaurant three stars, its cooking over all isn't on par with Daniel's or Per Se's. The food can be uneven, and too often engenders appreciation more than ardor. You regard rather than devour it.
 There are some knockout dishes, no question, among them a rich appetizer that underscores how many intriguing ingredients Mr. Bouley can pack into one composition and coax into harmony. Although it encompasses a soft egg, Serrano ham, white truffle, sunchoke, artichoke, steamed polenta and a coconut-garlic broth, it seems all of one piece, organic in the largest, truest sense of the word.
 In my other favorite appetizer, the kitchen layers chilled Kumamoto oysters and sliced sea scallop in what seems like an essay on the ocean's varied yield -- see how briny it can be, and see how sweet. It frames the reflection in a parsley juice that tastes as green as it looks.
 That appetizer underscores Mr. Bouley's fondness for supple, silky textures, which carries over into entrees that don't always require you to bring your teeth to the party.
 There's probably not a chef in town who can turn out chicken as tender as Mr. Bouley's, garnished with black truffle and a fresh almond puree.
 His cod, meantime, is almost like whipped cream, a fork slips so smoothly through its snow-white flesh. The flesh gets a bold contrast from a quasi-crust of black onion powder over it.
 But that sort of crust and contrast are missing from other entrees. In some, the kitchen softens the central ingredient into a neutered state of triumphal blandness. I had veal here with absolutely no taste whatsoever. I had lobster, too, with minimal flavor.
 And I had frustrations almost every time I called. The person who usually answers has a knack for seeming enormously put out by the obligation to take down your reservation, even though tables are easily had. That experience is utterly inconsistent with the kind of pampering Mr. Bouley is going for, and a more focused restaurateur would know about and fix it. Why doesn't he? 
 That's another mystery to me.
 Bouley
 163 Duane Street (Hudson Street), (212) 964-2525, davidbouley.com
 ATMOSPHERE Vaulted gold ceilings, Impressionist-style paintings, tapered candles, crushed velour and stonework add up to sappy, thrilling romanticism.
 SOUND LEVEL Moderate.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Egg with ham and white truffle; oyster with scallop; cod; chicken with almond puree; duckling with turnips; coconut soup; caramelized pear with chocolate; chocolate frivolous; meringue snowball with pomegranate and white chocolate.
 WINE LIST Comprehensive, diverse and expensive, with a focus on France and some fine selections in the $75 range.
 PRICE RANGE Dinner appetizers, $15 to $20; entrees, $38 to $43; desserts, $11 to $14. Six-course tasting menu, $95. Eight-course tasting menu, $150.
 HOURS Lunch from 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and dinner from 5 to 11:30 p.m. daily. 
 RESERVATIONS Call at least two weeks ahead for prime times.
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards. 
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Entrance and dining room at street level; elevator to accessible restrooms below ground.
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCENT OF APPLES: Bouley, in its new location, has decor that evokes the French countryside.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1009 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Japan: Exports Plunge Almost 50%

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Japan's exports plunged by a record in February as deepening recessions in the United States and Europe sapped demand for the country's cars and electronics. Overseas shipments plummeted 49.4 percent from a year earlier, the sharpest decline since at least 1980, when the government started to keep comparable data, the Finance Ministry said in Tokyo. Economists predicted a 47.6 percent drop. ''There's been a structural shock to the manufacturing sector,'' said Hiroshi Shiraishi, an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. ''So yes, the government can create demand temporarily, but that can't fill the export gap forever.'' Japan's gross domestic product shrank an annualized 12.1 percent last quarter, the biggest contraction among the world's advanced economies and the country's sharpest decline since the 1974 oil crisis. Japan has become more reliant on exports in the last decade, making it especially vulnerable to changes in global commerce. During Japan's expansion of 2002 to 2007, exports as a portion of gross domestic product rose to 15.6 percent, from 10.4 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (57%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1010 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Report Cards Give Up A's and B's for 4s and 3s

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: PELHAM, N.Y. 

 BODY:
There is no more A for effort at Prospect Hill Elementary School. 
 In fact, there are no more A's at all. Instead of letter grades in English or math, schoolchildren in this well-to-do Westchester suburb now get report cards filled with numbers indicating how they are faring on dozens of specific skills like ''decoding strategies'' and ''number sense and operations.'' The lowest mark, 1, indicates a student is not meeting New York State's academic standards, while the top grade of 4 celebrates ''meeting standards with distinction.''
 They are called standards-based report cards, part of a new system flourishing around the country as the latest frontier in a 20-year push to establish rigorous academic standards and require state tests on the material.
 Educators praise them for setting clear expectations, but many parents who chose to live in Pelham because of its well-regarded schools find them confusing or worse. Among their complaints are that since the new grades are based on year-end expectations, 4s are generally not available until the final marking period (school officials are planning to tweak this aspect next year). 
 ''We're running around the school saying '2 is cool,' '' said Jennifer Lapey, a parent who grew up in Pelham, ''but in my world, 2 out of 4 is not so cool.''
 When Pelham changed from traditional report cards to standards-based ones in its four elementary schools in September, it joined a growing number of districts locally and nationally, including Yonkers, Nashville, Denver and San Diego. (Some New York City schools have also adopted the new cards, at the discretion of their principals.)
 While urban areas typically have adopted the system as part of an effort to raise standardized test scores and achievement in struggling schools, officials in top suburban districts like Pelham -- where more than 85 percent of students pass state tests -- say they are hoping the numbers ensure more consistent grading across classrooms, tamp down grade inflation and refine focus on individual academic skills.
 Thomas R. Guskey, a professor at Georgetown College in Kentucky and an author of ''Developing Standards-Based Report Cards,'' a book that is soon to be released, said the new approach was more accurate, because it measures each student against a stated set of criteria, rather than grading on a curve, which compares members of a class with one another.
 ''The dilemma with that system is you really don't know whether anybody has learned anything,'' Dr. Guskey said of grading on a curve. ''They could all have done miserably, just some less miserably than others.''
 The executive director of the National Association of Secondary School Principals, Gerald Tirozzi -- who supports standards-based report cards -- said that many educators and parents were far from ready to scrap letter grades, especially for older students, in part because they worry about the ripple effects on things like the honor roll and class rank. 
 ''I think the present grading system -- A, B, C, D, F -- is ingrained in us,'' Mr. Tirozzi said. ''It's the language which college admissions officers understand; it's the language which parents understand.''
 Outside San Francisco, the San Mateo-Foster City district delayed plans to expand standards-based report cards to its four middle schools from its elementary schools, where they have been used since 2006, after parents packed school board meetings and collected more than 500 signatures in opposition. 
 ''What happened was the high-performing students said, 'I don't have to work that hard' and they all stopped trying,'' said Ellen Ulrich, a San Mateo mother of two who is lobbying for a hybrid card that would retain letter grades for achievement and effort alongside the 1-to-4 scale for specific skills. 
 Wilmette, Ill., a Chicago suburb, replaced a confusing array of letters, numbers and symbols with a standards-based format for grades one through four this year. ''We wanted parents to clearly know what their child's actual achievement was,'' said Melanie Horowitz, principal of Wilmette's Central School, ''without clouding the issue with how often they turned in their homework or participated in class.'' 
 The sprawling Montgomery County school system in Maryland adopted a standards-based report card at 24 of its 130 elementary schools this year to ensure more consistent grading practices across diverse communities from affluent Potomac to Silver Spring, where there are pockets of low-income families.
 And here in Westchester County, the Irvington district switched to the standards-based cards not only to make grading less subjective but also to keep parents better informed on their children's progress, said Karen Kellogg, an assistant principal.
 In Pelham, the second-grade report card includes 39 separate skill scores -- 10 each in math and language arts, 2 each in science and social studies, and a total of 15 in art, music, physical education, technology and ''learning behaviors'' -- engagement, respect, responsibility, organization. The report card itself is one page, but it comes with a 14-page guide explaining the different skills and the scoring.
 Dennis Lauro, Pelham's superintendent, said that standards-based report cards helped students chart their own courses for improvement; as part of the process, they each develop individual goals, which are discussed with teachers and parents, and assemble portfolios of work.
 ''I was never the A student, and it would constantly frustrate me,'' Dr. Lauro said. ''Nobody ever bothered to tell me how to get that A, to get to that next level.''
 Katie Scandole, a fourth grader, taped a list of goals to her lime-green notebook cover; it included working on grammar and reading books to increase her comprehension. ''Some I've met, some I still need to work on,'' she explained.
 North Westall, a fifth grader, got 27 3s this marking period, up from 16 on his first report card, in December. ''I set a goal to get a 3 in writing and I really, really wanted it,'' North said the other day as he went over the numbers in a parent-teacher conference. ''I got it because I didn't rush through my work just to get to the end. I look in the dictionary. I don't hate it anymore.''
 His mother, Rebecca, said afterward that she found the new report cards hard to understand, but was glad students were no longer compared with one another. ''I'm not against competition, but I don't think it belongs in fifth grade,'' she said.
 But another parent, Janice Ingram Bell, said she found the report cards impersonal, calling them a ''bargain-basement version of a report card'' that does not distinguish enough between student ability levels. Her second grader, Jennifer, was crushed to find she got straight 2s in English for the second marking period in a row despite having read every night with her parents. 
 Addressing these parental complaints, Pelham district officials said they planned to change the system next year to use benchmarks for each marking period -- rather than a year-end standard -- to give more timely snapshots of students' progress (and allow many more students to earn 4's from the beginning). They also plan to bring back teacher comments, and are looking for ways to recognize student effort and attitude.
 Those changes might help Danielle Como, a fourth grader, with skeptical relatives like her Uncle Vinny. After the first marking period, Uncle Vinny gave Danielle's sister Nicole, a sixth grader whose middle school uses letter grades, $5 for every A, but scoffed at Danielle's 2's and 3's. 
 ''We're from the old school where a 4.0 is a good G.P.A., so nobody's buying her story,'' explained the girls' mother, Mary. 
 Danielle got her teacher to send an e-mail message explaining the new system, and persuaded Uncle Vinny to cough it up for each 3. Last week, after getting 16 3s, Danielle headed over to see Uncle Vinny.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: North Westall, above, with his mother, Rebecca, got 27 3s on his latest report card, up from 16. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 A new grading system in Pelham, N.Y., uses the numbers 1 through 4 to indicate how students are mastering specific skills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PARENTS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WRITERS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1011 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: YouTube Blocked in China, Google Says

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT; David Barboza contributed reporting from Shanghai.

 BODY:
Google said Tuesday that its YouTube video-sharing Web site had been blocked in China. 
 Google said it did not know why the site had been blocked, but a report by the official Xinhua news agency of China on Tuesday said that supporters of the Dalai Lama had fabricated a video that appeared to show Chinese police officers brutally beating Tibetans after riots last year in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital. 
 Xinhua did not identify the video, but based on the description it appears to match a video available on YouTube that was recently released by the Tibetan government in exile. 
 It purports to show police officers storming a monastery after riots in Lhasa last March, kicking and beating protesters. It includes other instances of brutality and graphic images of a protester's wounds. According to the video, the protester later died.
 ''We don't know the reason for the block,'' a Google spokesman, Scott Rubin, said. ''Our government relations people are trying to resolve it.'' 
 Mr. Rubin said that the company first noticed traffic from China had decreased sharply late Monday. By early Tuesday, he said, it had dropped to nearly zero.
 China routinely filters Internet content and blocks material that is critical of its policies. It also frequently blocks individual videos on YouTube. YouTube was not blocked Tuesday or Wednesday in Hong Kong, the largely autonomous region of China. Beijing has not interfered with Internet sites there. 
 ''The instant speculation is that YouTube is being blocked because the Tibetan government in exile released a particular video,'' said Xiao Qiang, adjunct professor of journalism at the University of California, Berkeley, and editor of China Digital Times, a news Web site that chronicles political and economic changes in China. 
 Mr. Xiao said that the blocking of YouTube fit with what appeared to be an effort by China to step up its censorship of the Internet in recent months. Mr. Xiao said he was not surprised that YouTube was a target. It also hosts videos about the Tiananmen Square protests and many other subjects that Chinese authorities find objectionable. 
 The video about the beatings was pieced together from different places, Xinhua said on Tuesday, citing an unidentified official with the Tibetan regional government in China. 
 There has been no independent assessment of whether the video is authentic. In a statement sent via e-mail, Lobsang Nyandak, a representative of the Tibetan government in exile, said that the video was authentic.
 The government did not directly address whether YouTube had been blocked. When asked about the matter at a news conference, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, said: ''Many people have a false impression that the Chinese government fears the Internet. In fact, it is just the opposite.''
 Even as China steps up its censorship efforts, the country's Internet participation is booming. Often, critics often find a way to avoid censors and debate controversial topics.
 Ai Weiwei, a prominent Chinese artist, has been using his blog on Sina.com to criticize the government's management of the rescue and relief efforts after the devastating earthquake in May in Sichuan Province.
 In recent months, Beijing has announced major crackdowns on pornographic Web sites, even citing Google and other large companies for listing the sites on their search engines. Many critics say they believe that Beijing is using the word ''pornography'' as a rationale to eliminate Web sites that it deems troublesome.
 YouTube has been blocked for varying periods of time in several countries, including Pakistan, Thailand and Turkey. These countries often state directly why they have acted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); RIOTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) XIZANG, CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1012 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Dispatches From the Streets: The Grim Particulars of Homelessness

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
LAND OF THE LOST SOULS 
 My Life on the Streets 
 By Cadillac Man 
 288 pages. Bloomsbury. $25. 
 Sixteen years ago, with ''Travels With Lizbeth,'' Lars Eighner set the bar high for American memoirs of homelessness. Probably too high.
 Mr. Eighner's book resonated because of its incongruities. He wrote about grubby things in a high, almost dandified style, as if he were Simon Schama reporting from a Dumpster. 
 ''I prefer the word scavenging,'' Mr. Eighner wrote, in a typical pronouncement, ''and use the word scrounging if I mean to be obscure.'' I loved ''Travels With Lizbeth.'' But Mr. Eighner was such an agreeably yackety companion that his plight sometimes felt abstract.
 ''Land of the Lost Souls,'' a new memoir about being homeless on New York City's streets, from a writer known as Cadillac Man, is a different kind of book. It finds its center of gravity in the grim particulars of loss and brute survival. Its language is a platter of cabbages instead of roses. 
 Cadillac Man's story is grueling. His book is not. He works to put human faces on the men and women you see huddled under overpasses and in alleyways, and there are cracks of light in the tale he tells, even moments of joy, bravery and suspense.
 Cadillac Man -- his real name is Thomas Wagner -- began living on the streets in 1994, when he was 44. His descent into homelessness was gradual, and then quite sudden, the way a canoe is tugged downriver and then eventually drops over a waterfall.
 He was living with his second wife and a young daughter (''It was the American Dream right there,'' he writes) in New Jersey when he lost one job and then another, at places like a meat market and a Pepsi plant. A shoplifting arrest made decent-paying jobs even harder to find. He began arguing with his wife and became depressed; things generally went to hell. One night he didn't come home. 
 ''After a while I just moved away from everybody,'' he writes. ''I just wanted to be alone.'' 
 He grew up in Hell's Kitchen, on the West Side of Manhattan. His mother had seven children from many fathers. He wasn't close to his siblings, and had no one to turn to when he was first on the street. ''I could've called a friend,'' he admits, ''but I was just embarrassed.'' 
 Cadillac Man didn't want to panhandle. He began to make his living by redeeming recyclable cans and bottles -- ''canning,'' in the lingo. ''The Land of the Lost Souls'' makes it plain that canning not only keeps thousands of homeless people afloat economically but also, at least as important, it gives them a purpose, something to do every day, a way to keep boredom and despair at bay. ''Nickel heaven,'' he calls it. 
 This book is full of piquant details about the intricacies of living on the street. Prized refrigerator cartons are ''box Hiltons.'' When you're about to sleep, it's wise to spread a ''debris field'' around your area so you'll hear someone sneaking up on you. Newspaper stuffed inside clothing is a first-rate insulation. And a concealed weapon -- Cadillac Man carries a bayonet or an ice pick -- is a must. 
 Cadillac Man -- he got his nickname after being struck by a Cadillac -- isn't bitter about his plight. ''I had a good life and I screwed up,'' he writes, ''plain and simple.'' But he is angry about the abysmal quality of homeless shelters, which he says are too dangerous to sleep in. He argues that the requirements for getting food stamps are too much trouble. Public housing? He doesn't like the locations. Some class rage bubbles to the surface in ''Land of the Lost Souls.'' He refers to one of his sisters as ''Miss Wall Street.'' Yuppified restaurants are less eager to share their trash-bound leftovers, he notes, than cheap hash houses. 
 The homeless have their own kinds of snobbery. ''I never use diner utensils, you always find the previous meal on them,'' he says. ''Plastic is the way to go, use once and throw away.'' 
 Cadillac Man's story doesn't just move aimlessly from trash can to trash can. His book has several long set pieces, including one about his interactions with a group of hookers that reads like something out of an early William Vollmann novel. Another is the slightly queasy-making story of how he rescued, then semi-adopted, then began a sexual relationship with, a 19-year-old runaway. (He later helped her find her siblings.) 
 At times Cadillac Man presents himself as a kind of homeless superhero, helping people wherever he goes, breaking up beatings, watching people's backs. He's probably earned the right to self-mythologize a little.
 After Nasdijj, James Frey and Margaret B. Jones, can we take Cadillac Man's tales at face value? I have no reason to doubt him, though clearly some of his stories are impossible to check. I made three phone calls anyway. 
 Esquire magazine, which first excerpted Cadillac Man's journals, verified the fundamental details of his story, Mark Warren, his editor there, told me. His editor at Bloomsbury told me the publisher had paid a reporter, Matthew Monks, now at the trade magazine American Banker, to fact-check Cadillac Man's story. (It ''passed my vetting,'' Mr. Monks told me.) 
 The book certainly rings true. Not that there aren't moments that seem far-fetched, as when the author's father tells him, on his 10th birthday: ''My birthday present to you is that I will never see you again.''
 ''Land of the Lost Souls'' has a teeming cast of characters, who all have street names: there's Old Crow, Twinkies, Bones, Detroit, Shaky, Rubber Man: a jungle-land crew of self-described insiders, mostly on the lookout for one other. Their late-night flatulence sounds like a ''marching band of trombones.'' Cadillac Man's story, and maybe all homeless stories, are surprisingly similar to war memoirs or novels written from the perspective of the grunt. The trials are similar: the exposure to the elements, the lack of sleep, the stockpiling of weapons, the constant threat of physical harm, the lack of status, the strangers with whom you must quickly learn to bond and the presence of death and illness as everyday sights.
 The difference? The homeless usually aren't sure, exactly, who or what the enemy is. They fear that it is themselves.
 The author of this memoir, now in his late 50s, is reportedly now in a relationship and mostly off the streets. But if ''Land of the Lost Souls'' makes anything clear, it's that he'll always be an army of one. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cadillac Man, above, began living on the streets of New York in 1994, when he was 44.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); PANHANDLING (77%); WRITERS (77%); SHOPLIFTING (50%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (51%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Land of the Lost Souls (Book); Land of the Lost Souls (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1013 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: How's Business In the Recession? In the Taxi Trade, The Experts Disagree

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; C.J. Hughes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The average cabby works nine and a half hours a day. A cab's busiest hours are 6 to 8 p.m. And even as the economy has fallen deeper into recession, the number of cab rides each day in New York has remained relatively steady. 
 Those are among the most vivid bits of information about the yellow cab industry to emerge from a trove of new data collected by the Taxi and Limousine Commission from cabs equipped with new computerized systems that record each trip and fare. 
 Among the more surprising findings is that credit cards may be saving the industry from feeling the worst effects of the recession. 
 ''The credit card that we put in cabs has helped keep them afloat,'' said Matthew Daus, the chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission. 
 By last November, every yellow cab in the city was equipped with a credit card reader -- as a part of the new computerized system -- and as a result, Mr. Daus said, many corporations that once ordered black cars for their employees have begun telling them instead to take a cab (which costs less) and charge it. 
 That has hurt the black car business, which was already reeling from the impact of the Wall Street crisis on its main customers, financial services firms. The black car business is down at least 30 percent, Mr. Daus said. 
 But the shift has helped yellow cabs and appears to have made up for lost business as tourism and air travel have slumped and the disposable income of ordinary New Yorkers has dwindled. 
 For several years, data from old-fashioned taxi meters has shown that there are about 400,000 to 450,000 cab rides a day in New York (the data does not distinguish between weekdays and weekends). Now, information from the computerized systems, which the commission calls an electronic trip sheet, shows that the industry has maintained similar levels in recent months. 
 In December, cabs carried an average of 432,000 fares a day. That rose to 455,000 in January and 478,000 in February. (Because the commission has only a few months of data, it was not possible to tell the significance of the change from month to month or whether it was part of a seasonal pattern.)
 Last month riders paid with a credit card for one out of every five trips. A year ago, only six percent of trips were paid for with plastic.
 ''Industries all across the city and across the land are losing revenue, and we're showing signs of hope,'' Mr. Daus said. ''Taxi drivers have had a relatively consistent ride so far.''
 Cabbies, however, were adamant in disputing the commission's claim that business has remained steady. 
 Bhairavi Desai, the head of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers' group, said the recession had pushed more people to drive cabs. As a result, she said, at any given time there are more taxis on the road than a year ago and, while the total number of fares may be fairly constant, each driver ends up with a smaller piece of the pie. 
 And she criticized the credit card system -- which many drivers opposed -- because drivers must give up five percent of each transaction in a processing fee. 
 Most drivers interviewed on Tuesday said they had seen a drop in business. 
 ''It can't be possible,'' Mohamed Hillman, 45, who has been driving a yellow cab for four years, said of the commission's numbers. He said that a year ago he usually carried 35 fares a day while spending 10 hours behind the wheel. Now, he said, he carries about 27 fares during the same time. And he said trips were often shorter than before. 
 Syed Shah, 60, a driver for 15 years, said he used to take home $150 a day after expenses. Now, he said, he takes home $90. He said he sees many more people sharing cab rides. Where he used to take one person to work in the morning, now four get in his cab to ride together. A year ago, those might have been four separate cab rides.
 The data also gives other insights into the life and work of cab drivers. 
 On average, drivers work about nine and a half hours a day, the commission said. That covers the time from a driver's first pickup to the last drop-off. 
 That is in contrast to what many cabbies have long told officials: that they often work 11 or 12 hours a day. 
 The data also shows that the greatest number of cabs are on the road at about 7 p.m. At that time on an average day in February, about 10,000 cabs were cruising the streets. At noon, an average of 8,700 cabs were on the road. The fewest cabs were available at 5 a.m., when about 2,600 cabs were out.
 Mr. Daus said there were more than 47,000 people licensed to drive taxicabs, a record number. Commission staffers said that in recent years the number of licensed cabbies had generally been between 37,000 and 40,000. But Mr. Daus said that drivers' wages appear to have remained steady at $14 to $16 an hour after expenses. 
 The data shows that at least in the last three months, there has been some earnings consistency. The average cab took in $32.11 (not counting cash tips) from 6 to 7 p.m. in February. In December the average for that time period was $31, and in January it was $30.96.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taxis on Eighth Avenue in Manhattan. Satinder Singh, top, has been driving a taxi for two years and does not notice a difference in business. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1014 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Dissecting Bank Plan For a Way To Profit

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Eric Dash and Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Up and down Wall Street, bankers and traders sharpened their pencils on Tuesday as they began the complex financial calculus of the latest bank rescue plan. Their goal: to find ways to profit from it.
 In skyscrapers across Manhattan, banking executives assessed how best to use the new Treasury proposal to sell billions of dollars of their troubled assets. Traders at giant investment houses and small hedge funds debated whether to buy them.
 And on a day when the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said he was seeking government authority to regulate or take control of nonbank financial institutions like insurance companies, insurance executives wondered whether they might use the program to ease their industry's financial stress.
 ''Even though they are called toxic assets, some of them are not toxic, and those are the ones that we are going to be ferreting out,'' said Sherry Reeser, a spokeswoman for the California State Teachers' Retirement System, which sees a buying opportunity in the so-called public-private investment program. 
 But no one on or off Wall Street seemed any closer to answering the fundamental question hanging over these investments: What is this stuff really worth? 
 Nor was there any consensus about an even more sobering question that confronts not only the financial industry but ordinary Americans: Will this be the plan that finally works? 
 ''It's a wait-and-see attitude,'' said Paul Graham, chief actuary of the American Council of Life Insurers.
 The proposal, which was announced officially on Monday, has provoked many responses and questions. Can banks that received government bailouts use taxpayer money to bid on toxic assets, in the hope of making a profit? Would that be bad, given that the point of the exercise is to stir up a bit of greed and animal spirits, the lack of which has been holding the economy back?
 Can banks sell some assets and then use the proceeds, leveraged by generous government financing, to buy more of the same? Might investment houses be tempted to overpay, if doing so buoys the value of their own investments? In the end, it will be the taxpayer who will be largely footing the bill.
 For the Obama administration, the challenge is to strike a balance between the potentially competing interests of investors and taxpayers. Some wonder if the proposal tips too far in favor of investors. 
 Internet blogs were full of economists scratching their heads over how to game the plan and come out ahead of the government. Others, like Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, in an interview with Reuters, called the program ''very badly flawed'' and said it offered ''perverse incentives'' that amounted ''to robbery of the American people.''
 Despite such reservations, Goldman Sachs sent out a note to whip up investor interest in the government's rescue plans, while BlackRock, the big money management firm, was considering the practicalities of starting, of all things, a mutual fund so everyday investors could buy into banks' toxic assets. 
 But Bert Ely, a prominent banking consultant, said investors would be cautious because many crucial details were still missing -- the size and terms of loans they would receive from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, for example, and the amount of equity they would be allowed to put in, and whether banks would be allowed to walk away if they did not like the price at auction. 
 ''Today we know a lot more than we did yesterday, right?'' Mr. Ely said. ''I am being facetious!''
 Many questioned the auction mechanism to sell toxic assets off from banks' balance sheets. Price, most experts agree, is the biggest sticking point. The banks want to sell high. Potential investors want to buy low.
 Banking executives said that their institutions would not want to unload assets at fire-sale prices, a step that would compel banks to raise large amounts of additional capital. The gap is likely to be the widest for certain loans because of the way banks account for them.
 Because of the way they account for the assets on their books, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- Wall Street giants that converted themselves into banks last year in an effort to ride out the financial storm -- may be more willing to sell assets than some commercial banks.
 Under accounting rules, banks must carry securities on their books at market prices. Most financial firms have already marked down these assets to prices that might be low enough to lure buyers.
 But banks need not carry ordinary loans at market value. Instead, they are allowed to hold them at their higher values until they are repaid. So, for many commercial banks, selling loans now, at distressed prices, would almost certainly lead to large losses. Such losses might raise questions about how some banks will fare in a so-called stress test that federal regulators are in the process of applying to about 20 lenders.
 ''I don't see how they are going to get the banks to sell,'' said an executive at a large bank, who asked not to be named, given the delicate nature of the Treasury plan. ''There are going to be substantial write-downs taken to get them off the books.''
 Federal regulators said privately that, in some cases, they might pressure banks to sell.
 Mr. Graham, of the American Council of Life Insurers, said pricing was also a crucial issue for insurance companies. Insurance companies have a long time horizon, he said, so they can hold impaired bonds through market downturns.
 For all the uncertainties, some big investors like BlackRock and Wilbur L. Ross Jr., a prominent figure in distressed investing, said they were willing to take the plunge. Pension funds also represent a large source of purchasing power, and Ms. Reeser, of the California State Teachers' Retirement System, viewed the program positively.
 The fund, known as Calstrs, had already reduced the part of its portfolio dedicated to stocks by 5 percent, to free up money for this type of purchase, she said.
 Institutional investors like insurance companies represent huge blocks of capital, and the success of the public-private investment program will depend in part on how eager they are to get involved as purchasers of the toxic assets. 
 ''Insurers account for 10 percent of all invested assets in the United States today,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute. They would be interested in the program because of its partial government guarantee and their ability to find out what the structured assets consisted of, he said. 
 ''There is some significant upside potential here,'' he said. ''But you have to balance that against the fact that insurers are very conservative investors.'' 
 The problem, he said, is that companies have to maintain cash flows that match their payout obligations, and it was by no means clear that, in a pinch, they could get their cash out of the toxic assets. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, called the bank rescue plan flawed and suggested that private investors, rather than taxpayers, would gain from it.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALVATORE Di NOLFI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (70%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); ROBBERY (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1015 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW LE NOZZE DI FIGARO; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Importing A Revival To Revisit The Past

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
In a city whose economic slump began long before the current national malaise, the Cleveland Orchestra has been swimming against the tide and reclaiming parts of its storied past.
 In 2000 it completed a magnificent renovation of Severance Hall, the Art Deco monument that has been its home since 1931. And now it is reviving a venerable tradition of presenting fully staged opera in Severance with the players in the pit, something it once did in abundance (15 operas conducted by Artur Rodzinski from 1933 to 1938 alone, including the American premiere of Shostakovich's ''Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District'') but has not done since the 1970s.
 On Monday evening Franz Welser-Most, the orchestra's music director, conducted a performance of Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' in a production imported from the Zurich Opera, where Mr. Welser-Most was general music director from 2005 to 2008. ''Fully staged'' does not necessarily mean elaborately staged, and this modest production, directed by Sven-Eric Bechtolf, might seem to have been made to travel. But only after its premiere in Zurich in 2007, also conducted by Mr. Welser-Most, did anyone think to take it to Cleveland. 
 One large set element framed the action in Zurich, as can be seen in a new EMI Classics DVD of the 2007 outing. But at Severance Mr. Bechtolf relies on the ornately gilded stage shell to evoke an aura of noble grandeur. There are no sets to speak of: only large projection screens on the back wall, used for perfunctory lighting effects. 
 Even the props are rudimentary: cardboard moving boxes in Figaro and Susanna's room; chairs covered with sheets in the wedding festivities; carousel horses in the final scene in the garden. 
 Mr. Bechtolf has updated the work to the 1930s, a program essay says, ''another period close to an impending debacle'': now war rather than revolution. Yet it is not what was impending in 1786, when Mozart completed the opera, that drives the plot, but what might have been lingering from medieval times. 
 Droit du seigneur, including the right of a lord to bed his subject's bride on her wedding night, was probably not a pressing issue in the 1930s and was certainly not a significant factor in the buildup to World War II. But not to take the matter too seriously; Timo Schlussel's stage direction doesn't seem to, with its trendy dance moves and at least one high-five.
 With copious raising of skirts, dropping of pants, grabbing of crotches, fondling of female body parts, symbolic excisions of symbolic phalluses and physical threats directed at real ones, the production is raunchy by American norms though hardly outrageous by European standards. You don't have to believe everything you saw in ''Amadeus'' to suspect that Mozart might have enjoyed much of this. It is, after all, precisely in this opera, mingling unabashed sensuality with utterly ethereal harmonies, that the duality -- or is it merely fullness? -- of Mozart's personality shows most clearly. 
 The cast -- full of veterans from Zurich, where the production was revived last December -- was excellent as a unified ensemble and in many individual star turns. Ruben Drole and Martina Jankova made auspicious American debuts as Figaro and Susanna. Mr. Drole was strong throughout; Ms. Jankova seemed tentative at the start but quickly gathered her forces and was melting in her culminating aria, ''Deh, vieni, non tardar.''
 But it was Malin Hartelius, as the Countess, who provided the genuine showstopper in ''Dove sono,'' where she sang with lustrous tone and exquisite sensitivity, seconded in kind by the principal oboist, Frank Rosenwein. Michael Volle's bluff and bullying Count set Ms. Hartelius's vulnerability in sharpest relief, but Mr. Volle, too, could summon a handsome vocal presence.
 Isabel Leonard, in lovely voice, was uncommonly persuasive as the lad Cherubino, but his hormonal urges were nothing compared with those of Barbarina in a delightfully gamy portrayal by Rebeca Olvera.
 Much of the point of the enterprise was to hear the Cleveland Orchestra in this work, and it in no way disappointed. Having worked over decades with George Szell, Christoph von Dohnanyi and now Mr. Welser-Most, it has Mozart in its blood, and it followed Mr. Welser-Most's mercurial pacing with agility and elegance. The skittering strings in the scene in which Susanna replaces Cherubino in the Countess's closet scattered a bit: a salutary caution for the listener not to take the seeming ease of the rest of the performance for granted.
 Earlier on Monday the orchestra informed its patrons of measures it is taking in response to the larger economic crisis, including pay cuts for the administrative staff. In addition, it said, ''We are changing programming to avoid or eliminate the need for overtime and extra musicians.''
 Staged opera is not cheap, though as one administrator pointed out, with a pre-existing production it is not that much more expensive than opera in concert, since the biggest added cost in either case is for the singers. However that may be, the orchestra still plans to import two more Bechtolf productions of Mozart operas from Zurich: ''Cosi Fan Tutte'' next season and ''Don Giovanni'' in 2010-11. 
 ''Le Nozze di Figaro'' will be presented again on Wednesday and Friday evenings and on Sunday afternoon at Severance Hall, 11001 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland; (216) 231-1111 or (800) 686-1141, clevelandorchestra.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ruben Drole and Martina Jankova making their American debuts in ''Le Nozze di Figaro.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGER MASTROIANNI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); OPERA (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); WORLD WAR II (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (90%) SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1016 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 464 words

BYLINE: By SEAN PATRICK FARRELL

 BODY:
SPOKES: SPRING
 And Bicycle Care
 The ice cream trucks are out, flowering bulbs are poking up in the parks and cyclists are again flocking to the city's paths, bridges and new on-street lanes. Last year was a bumper year for New York City bicycling, particularly for commuters. Starting today, City Room will explore urban cycling with a weekly feature, Spokes. 
 Americans across the country rediscovered cycling as an inexpensive way to get around as gas prices shot up last year. In New York, an increase in transit fares this year may keep the trend going. 
 Whether it's a beater, a 10-speed, a cyclo-cross or a commuter model, a bicycle needs regular maintenance, and spring is a good time for it.
 ''The city is a rather rough environment for a bike,'' said Eric Schofield, the general manager and a mechanic at Bicycle Habitat, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. 
 He said he has seen a recent shift in New Yorkers' perception of bikes from toys to tools, as more people rely on them for regular transportation. He stressed the importance of checking for proper tire inflation, the lubrication of chains and other moving parts, and properly adjusted brakes. 
 Most bike shops offer repairs and tuneups, but services often take longer as the weather warms up. At Pedal Pushers, an Upper East Side bike shop, the balmy spell last week doubled the usual repair turnaround time, to 48 hours from 24. 
 Roger Bergman, the owner, recommends a tuneup every 1,000 miles or every six months. 
 Bicycle Habitat, which has two or three mechanics at the ready, claims a 25-minute or shorter turnaround for most repairs and offers bike repair classes. 
 Time's Up, a nonprofit environmental group known for its involvement with the cycling events called Critical Mass, also offers basic instruction in bicycle maintenance.
 On a recent Sunday afternoon, a small class at Time's Up's location in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, had a lesson on wheel repair for a suggested $5 donation. 
 As Eric Berkow, a 28-year-old Harlem resident, dug into his wheel's innards, he explained that he'd been getting around the city almost exclusively by bicycle for two years. He regularly rides from the Bedford Avenue subway stop in Williamsburg to the First Avenue stop on the L line, at 14th Street. Under the expert's recommendations, he should have a tuneup every 303 times he goes across the Williamsburg Bridge. 
 Mr. Berkow, who said he was not ''a fan of the train,'' added that he regularly beat the L subway to Manhattan. 
 SEAN PATRICK FARRELL 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Postcard or Art Project? A Belgian artist has started a project: He leaves self-addressed stamped postcards that encourage the finders to personalize and mail them back. Two weeks ago, he left 100 cards in New York. Ten have come back. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Online, a video tutorial has tips for returning cyclists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN PATRICK FARRELL THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A postcard that was found, personalized and returned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IGOTAPOSTCARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); CYCLING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TIRES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); MISC HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1017 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Offer to Soften A Key Rate-Setting Policy

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The health insurance industry said Tuesday that it was willing to end the practice of charging higher premiums to sick people if Congress adopted a comprehensive plan requiring all Americans to carry insurance.
 Insurers remain staunchly opposed to creation of a government-run health insurance plan. But the industry's willingness to change its rate-setting practices could make it easier for Congress to reach a consensus on legislation to overhaul health care.
The industry's new position, which came as a surprise to lawmakers, could narrow the issues on which insurers are ready to fight the Democrats now controlling Congress and the White House. 
 In effect, insurers said they were willing to discard an element of their longstanding business model -- pricing insurance policies, in part, on the basis of a person's medical condition or history.
 In the past, insurers have warned that if they could not consider a person's health status in setting premiums, the rates charged to young, healthy people would need to soar. But they said Tuesday that they were exploring ideas to prevent such sharp increases by spreading the risk and costs broadly across a larger population, including the healthy and the unhealthy.
 Insurers said they could accept more aggressive regulation not just of their premiums, but also of their benefits, underwriting practices and other activities. Such strict regulation, they said, would make it unnecessary to create a new public insurance program offered through the federal government. 
 The insurers set forth their position at a Senate hearing on Tuesday and in letters to the chairmen and senior Republican members of the two Senate committees primarily responsible for health care legislation. 
 The letters were signed by the presidents of the major trade groups that represent most of the industry: Karen M. Ignagni of America's Health Insurance Plans and Scott P. Serota of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.
 Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, who presided over the hearing of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, welcomed the insurers' position.
 ''It was a significant step for them to take,'' Mr. Bingaman said in an interview. ''That's certainly not been their position in previous years. I hope it moves us closer to something that we could label a consensus.''
 Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, also welcomed the insurers' stance. ''It indicates that we may be able to have health care reform this year,'' Mr. Baucus said, ''because the major players are stepping up and saying they are willing to play.'' 
 Sandy Praeger, the Kansas insurance commissioner, who testified on behalf the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, said the companies were taking ''a very good step.''
 ''As we move toward getting everybody covered,'' Ms. Praeger said, ''we have to get rid of health status as a rating factor.''
 Regulation of premiums varies from state to state. Premiums for a person with a history of serious illness, Ms. Praeger said, are often much higher than premiums for younger, healthier people -- if the sick people can get coverage at all. 
 In November, two weeks after the presidential election, the industry said it could support legislation requiring insurers to accept all applicants, regardless of illness or disability. In return, the industry said, Congress should require all Americans to have coverage. 
 At that time, the industry pointedly refused to say whether it would accept stricter regulation of its rates as a way of limiting the variation in premiums.
 In their letter to Congress on Tuesday, Ms. Ignagni and Mr. Serota said that if Congress enacted an enforceable requirement for everyone to carry health insurance, ''we could guarantee issue of coverage with no pre-existing condition exclusions and phase out the practice of varying premiums based on health status in the individual market.''
 But the two executives said insurers wanted to retain the right to charge different premiums based on the age, place of residence and family size of subscribers.
 Richard J. Kirsch, the national campaign manager of Health Care for America Now, a consumer group, said: ''If the goal is to make insurance affordable, the latest concession does not go far enough. Insurance companies should also be prohibited from setting rates based on age or sex, and the rating reforms should apply to small businesses as well as individuals.''
 Still, Len M. Nichols, an economist who is director of the health policy program at the New America Foundation, said the industry had ''come a long way from 1993-94,'' when it helped defeat President Bill Clinton's plan for universal coverage. 
 ''Insurers make money by separating us from one another and charging different amounts to different groups, based on their health risk,'' Mr. Nichols said. ''That is socially unproductive. Insurers should make money not by excluding the sick, but by helping them get better care.''
 Ronald A. Williams, the chairman and chief executive of Aetna, said his company was already moving in that direction.
 President Obama and many Democrats in Congress want to establish health insurance exchanges where people could buy coverage offering at least a standard set of benefits.
 Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said that under this proposal, ''insurance companies could not discriminate based on somebody's pre-existing condition, and everybody has to be treated the same.''
 But Mr. Harkin, like Ms. Ignagni and Mr. Williams, said that insurers should be allowed to offer discounts on premiums to people who engaged in healthy behavior. Such discounts, they said, could be an incentive for people to stop smoking, lose weight and participate in programs to treat chronic diseases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (64%); AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (64%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (58%); JEFF BINGAMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1018 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Cattle Rustling Plagues Ranchers

BYLINE: By MALCOLM GAY

DATELINE: CLEVER, Mo. 

 BODY:
Crashing through a gate in the dead of night, thieves using trucks and trailers recently robbed a farmer here of 53 Brahman crossbreed cows valued at some $50,000. 
 Known for a distinctive hump at the base of the neck, Brahman cattle are rare here and would be easily spotted at a local auction, leading investigators to think the rustlers already had a buyer -- or a butcher -- lined up. 
 ''Those were full-grown cows,'' Sheriff Joey Kyle of Christian County said. ''Around 1,100 pounds apiece. That's 53,000 pounds of beef on the hoof. Your normal stock trailer will handle a dozen to 15 cows, so do the math.'' 
 It was the first cattle theft in the county in more than two years and the largest state officials could recall. It came amid a surge of such thefts here in southwestern Missouri. In January, rustlers hauled away 41 cows in nearby Lawrence County. Investigators in Barry County report 30 head stolen in the last six months. In Greene County, Sheriff Jim Arnott said rustlers had struck 10 times since October, stealing a total of 93 cows. 
 ''It's a big spike,'' Sheriff Arnott said. ''Usually we'll go a year or two with no thefts, but it's really picked up. In these economic times people are taking desperate measures, whether it's stealing, or whether they're trying to come up with money through insurance fraud.''
 Earlier this month, rustlers in Watertown, S.D., used tractor-trailers to steal nearly 200 cows from an auction market. State officials in Wyoming report that thieves stole 225 head of cattle in 2008, up from 90 in 2006. 
 In Montana, where 60 cattle were recently reported missing in a series of thefts, officials described an increase in rustling since the summer, and the International Livestock Identification Association reported swelling numbers of missing-animal claims this year among its 20 member states. 
 Equally alarming, investigators say, is a spike in cattle-related fraud. Out-of-state buyers build a relationship with an auction market, only to disappear with livestock they used in-house credit to buy but never paid for. Investigators also say that people are now falsely claiming ownership of cattle as collateral for loans. 
 ''It's across the board,'' Lee Romsa, state brand commissioner for the Wyoming Livestock Board, said. ''We're not just seeing more thefts, we're seeing more large thefts.''
 Still, no state seems as hard hit by cattle rustling as Missouri. 
 ''They've just been plagued,'' said Larry Gray, head of law enforcement for the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association. 
 Mr. Gray, who said that cattle theft was often tied to drug activity, added that Missouri farmers might be more vulnerable to rustlers because many farmers there were ''absentee producers'' with smaller operations. 
 ''Thieves like to prey on the smaller producers,'' he said, because ''it's a lot easier for the thieves to get and load the cattle.''
 Also, unlike many larger cattle-producing Western states, Missouri does not have a ''brand law,'' meaning that cattle producers are not required to register brands with the state. 
 Not having to register saves many of the state's 65,000 ranchers from paying fees, but it also means that cattle often carry no identifying marks. Auction markets and stockyards are not required to verify ownership of unbranded cattle, and that, the authorities say, allows thieves to unload stolen livestock quickly.
 ''You could drive up to any sale barn, drop off your load of cattle, and if they pass the agricultural inspection and are sold, you'd get a check in the mail,'' Sgt. Jason Clark, a Missouri Highway Patrol spokesman, said.
 Since 2004, after a surge in cattle thefts following a spike in beef prices, many of the roughly 130 auction markets in Missouri have begun asking for identification and proof of ownership from anyone trying to sell unbranded cattle. But the program is voluntary, and the Missouri Cattlemen's Association estimates that thieves have stolen more than $1.1 million in cattle and equipment in the past four years. 
 To counter the tide, sheriffs have stepped up their efforts, pulling over suspicious cattle trailers, educating farmers and ranchers about protecting their livestock, distributing fliers at feed stores and notifying auction markets when a theft occurs. 
 A bill in the General Assembly would stiffen penalties for livestock theft, and the Missouri Farm Bureau and the state cattlemen's association each offer rewards of up to $5,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of cattle thieves. 
 But investigators say efforts to track down stolen cattle rarely bear fruit. There is no national identification database for cattle, and thieves often move quickly, shipping stolen animals to auction markets in other states that do not require brand inspection. 
 ''If they don't have a chip or branding or a tattoo, you're pretty much looking for a black cow,'' said Sheriff Arnott, who said he had traced stolen cattle as far as Mississippi. 
 Bob Gammon, who owns a farm in southwestern Missouri, has branded his cattle since he began raising them in 1946. Still, Mr. Gammon has not been able to recover the 18 head that were stolen in January. After crushing a gate, the thieves used one of Mr. Gammon's trailers to haul away the livestock, which he valued at $15,000. 
 ''When I got there the next morning, there was a gate laying down and a few cattle out on the road,'' said Mr. Gammon, who has put heavier chains on his gates and installed an alarm and lighting system in several farm buildings. ''I thought I was doing everything right, but I haven't heard from the cattle yet.''
 Sheriff Kyle, who said a subpoena had recently been issued in the Brahman theft in Christian County, said local officials were under pressure to find stolen cattle before the animals disappeared inside a slaughterhouse. 
 ''Down here, a sheriff lives or dies by whether he keeps the cattle thefts down,'' he said. ''But there are no serial numbers on hamburgers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tagged cattle near Clever, Mo., where the authorities have reported an increase in rustling. Sheriff Joey Kyle at a farm in Clever where 53 cows were stolen. Top left, chains failed to stop thieves. Deputies say they may have removed the entire gate.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SCHIEFELBEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BEEF (73%); INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE FRAUD (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1019 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Senate Measure Seeks to Spur Foundations to Give More

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Three senators introduced legislation Tuesday intended to encourage foundations to give away more of their money.
 The measure would change the way foundations are taxed on their investment income, replacing the current two-tiered system with a single tax rate. Foundations complain that the current system effectively penalizes them when they give away more money than usual. 
 ''The need for philanthropy is greater than ever in this weakened economy, and we should be encouraging foundations to increase their charitable giving,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is sponsoring the bill along with Senators Debbie Stabenow and Carl Levin, Democrats of Michigan.
 Under current law, private foundations must make grants and other expenditures for charitable purposes equal to at least 5 percent of the market value of their assets. In calculating that payout rate, foundations are allowed to include the 2 percent excise tax they generally pay on their investment income.
 That excise tax is reduced to 1 percent in any year that a foundation distributes more than the average percentage of assets it has given away over the five preceding tax years, a break that was intended as an incentive to give more.
 But the increased spending naturally raises the five-year rolling average going forward. And that, says the Council on Foundations, means that a foundation that increases its payout, to address a crisis like Hurricane Katrina or the current economic implosion, will pay taxes at the reduced rate for one year but the higher rate for some time after that, unless it continues to make greater and greater payouts.
 Supporters of the new bill contemplate a single tax rate of 1.32 percent, but caution that to ensure there will be no loss of revenue to the Treasury, that figure is considered only preliminary.
 The effort was applauded by Robert S. Collier, chief executive of the Council of Michigan Foundations, which has commissioned research showing that a less cumbersome tax system would promote institutional giving.
 ''We are confident this will stimulate more giving by foundations,'' Mr. Collier said, ''simply by making the administration of tens of thousands of smaller and midsize foundations much easier because they won't have to spend a lot of time with their accountants trying to figure out if they have to pay 1 percent or 2 percent.''
 Foundations and others contend that the current system, established in 1986, discourages higher payouts in times of need.
 ''This year, most of the foundations in Detroit will be paying out much more than they have in the past because of the needs,'' said C. David Campbell, president of the McGregor Fund, a foundation based in that city. ''But that will leave all of us in the position of paying more taxes going forward, which ironically will further diminish what we have to support nonprofits.''
 The excise tax, Mr. Collier noted, is the only tax on nonprofit groups. The revenue it generates was intended to support the Internal Revenue Service's oversight of tax-exempt organizations. In fact, however, only $87.8 million of the more than $600 million that the tax raised last year was spent for that purpose, the rest going to finance government operations at large, the Council on Foundations says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EXCISE TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1020 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Dear A.I.G., I Quit!

 BODY:
The following is a letter sent on Tuesday by Jake DeSantis, an executive vice president of the American International Group's financial products unit, to Edward M. Liddy, the chief executive of A.I.G.
 DEAR Mr. Liddy,
 It is with deep regret that I submit my notice of resignation from A.I.G. Financial Products. I hope you take the time to read this entire letter. Before describing the details of my decision, I want to offer some context:
 I am proud of everything I have done for the commodity and equity divisions of A.I.G.-F.P. I was in no way involved in -- or responsible for -- the credit default swap transactions that have hamstrung A.I.G. Nor were more than a handful of the 400 current employees of A.I.G.-F.P. Most of those responsible have left the company and have conspicuously escaped the public outrage. 
 After 12 months of hard work dismantling the company -- during which A.I.G. reassured us many times we would be rewarded in March 2009 -- we in the financial products unit have been betrayed by A.I.G. and are being unfairly persecuted by elected officials. In response to this, I will now leave the company and donate my entire post-tax retention payment to those suffering from the global economic downturn. My intent is to keep none of the money myself. 
 I take this action after 11 years of dedicated, honorable service to A.I.G. I can no longer effectively perform my duties in this dysfunctional environment, nor am I being paid to do so. Like you, I was asked to work for an annual salary of $1, and I agreed out of a sense of duty to the company and to the public officials who have come to its aid. Having now been let down by both, I can no longer justify spending 10, 12, 14 hours a day away from my family for the benefit of those who have let me down.
 You and I have never met or spoken to each other, so I'd like to tell you about myself. I was raised by schoolteachers working multiple jobs in a world of closing steel mills. My hard work earned me acceptance to M.I.T., and the institute's generous financial aid enabled me to attend. I had fulfilled my American dream.
 I started at this company in 1998 as an equity trader, became the head of equity and commodity trading and, a couple of years before A.I.G.'s meltdown last September, was named the head of business development for commodities. Over this period the equity and commodity units were consistently profitable -- in most years generating net profits of well over $100 million. Most recently, during the dismantling of A.I.G.-F.P., I was an integral player in the pending sale of its well-regarded commodity index business to UBS. As you know, business unit sales like this are crucial to A.I.G.'s effort to repay the American taxpayer. 
 The profitability of the businesses with which I was associated clearly supported my compensation. I never received any pay resulting from the credit default swaps that are now losing so much money. I did, however, like many others here, lose a significant portion of my life savings in the form of deferred compensation invested in the capital of A.I.G.-F.P. because of those losses. In this way I have personally suffered from this controversial activity -- directly as well as indirectly with the rest of the taxpayers. 
 I have the utmost respect for the civic duty that you are now performing at A.I.G. You are as blameless for these credit default swap losses as I am. You answered your country's call and you are taking a tremendous beating for it. 
 But you also are aware that most of the employees of your financial products unit had nothing to do with the large losses. And I am disappointed and frustrated over your lack of support for us. I and many others in the unit feel betrayed that you failed to stand up for us in the face of untrue and unfair accusations from certain members of Congress last Wednesday and from the press over our retention payments, and that you didn't defend us against the baseless and reckless comments made by the attorneys general of New York and Connecticut. 
 My guess is that in October, when you learned of these retention contracts, you realized that the employees of the financial products unit needed some incentive to stay and that the contracts, being both ethical and useful, should be left to stand. That's probably why A.I.G. management assured us on three occasions during that month that the company would ''live up to its commitment'' to honor the contract guarantees. 
 That may be why you decided to accelerate by three months more than a quarter of the amounts due under the contracts. That action signified to us your support, and was hardly something that one would do if he truly found the contracts ''distasteful.'' 
 That may also be why you authorized the balance of the payments on March 13.
 At no time during the past six months that you have been leading A.I.G. did you ask us to revise, renegotiate or break these contracts -- until several hours before your appearance last week before Congress.
 I think your initial decision to honor the contracts was both ethical and financially astute, but it seems to have been politically unwise. It's now apparent that you either misunderstood the agreements that you had made -- tacit or otherwise -- with the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, various members of Congress and Attorney General Andrew Cuomo of New York, or were not strong enough to withstand the shifting political winds. 
 You've now asked the current employees of A.I.G.-F.P. to repay these earnings. As you can imagine, there has been a tremendous amount of serious thought and heated discussion about how we should respond to this breach of trust.
 As most of us have done nothing wrong, guilt is not a motivation to surrender our earnings. We have worked 12 long months under these contracts and now deserve to be paid as promised. None of us should be cheated of our payments any more than a plumber should be cheated after he has fixed the pipes but a careless electrician causes a fire that burns down the house. 
 Many of the employees have, in the past six months, turned down job offers from more stable employers, based on A.I.G.'s assurances that the contracts would be honored. They are now angry about having been misled by A.I.G.'s promises and are not inclined to return the money as a favor to you.
 The only real motivation that anyone at A.I.G.-F.P. now has is fear. Mr. Cuomo has threatened to ''name and shame,'' and his counterpart in Connecticut, Richard Blumenthal, has made similar threats -- even though attorneys general are supposed to stand for due process, to conduct trials in courts and not the press.
 So what am I to do? There's no easy answer. I know that because of hard work I have benefited more than most during the economic boom and have saved enough that my family is unlikely to suffer devastating losses during the current bust. Some might argue that members of my profession have been overpaid, and I wouldn't disagree. 
 That is why I have decided to donate 100 percent of the effective after-tax proceeds of my retention payment directly to organizations that are helping people who are suffering from the global downturn. This is not a tax-deduction gimmick; I simply believe that I at least deserve to dictate how my earnings are spent, and do not want to see them disappear back into the obscurity of A.I.G.'s or the federal government's budget. Our earnings have caused such a distraction for so many from the more pressing issues our country faces, and I would like to see my share of it benefit those truly in need.
 On March 16 I received a payment from A.I.G. amounting to $742,006.40, after taxes. In light of the uncertainty over the ultimate taxation and legal status of this payment, the actual amount I donate may be less -- in fact, it may end up being far less if the recent House bill raising the tax on the retention payments to 90 percent stands. Once all the money is donated, you will immediately receive a list of all recipients. 
 This choice is right for me. I wish others at A.I.G.-F.P. luck finding peace with their difficult decision, and only hope their judgment is not clouded by fear.
 Mr. Liddy, I wish you success in your commitment to return the money extended by the American government, and luck with the continued unwinding of the company's diverse businesses -- especially those remaining credit default swaps. I'll continue over the short term to help make sure no balls are dropped, but after what's happened this past week I can't remain much longer -- there is too much bad blood. I'm not sure how you will greet my resignation, but at least Attorney General Blumenthal should be relieved that I'll leave under my own power and will not need to be ''shoved out the door.''
 Sincerely,
 Jake DeSantis

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AHLBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (54%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1021 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Bonuses May Become A White House Problem

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

 BODY:
The hot-button issue of year-end bonuses from firms that took bailout money may not be a headache just for Wall Street. It could also become a White House problem. 
 Several members of the Obama administration worked for financial companies that received bailout money, raising the question of whether they should keep any bonuses they received. 
 At least three members of the still-growing team of political appointees, for example, worked at Citigroup and were eligible for year-end bonuses. One of the former Citigroup executives, Michael Froman, the deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, has decided to give his bonus to charity. The White House declined to provide specific details on what the other two -- the deputy secretary of state, Jacob J. Lew, and the White House senior director for international economics, David A. Lipton -- will do.
 The issue echoes the problem the administration faced when bonuses paid to employees of the American International Group, the insurance conglomerate, caused a populist outcry. 
 Jennifer Psaki, a White House spokeswoman, said in a statement that the administration had scrutinized ''the employment and compensation history of all our appointees,'' but that the administration was not forcing people to give up their year-end bonuses.
 ''While we don't require former executives to forgo their bonuses when they come to work here, some made the choice to give their bonus or other compensation up,'' Ms. Psaki added. ''Executives who come to work for this administration take a major pay cut to do so because they believe in the efforts of the president to change the system, including his longtime commitment to stronger regulation of the financial services industry.'' CHARLIE SAVAGE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1022 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says Sanctions Would Quash Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea said Tuesday that if the United States pushed for United Nations sanctions against it after its planned satellite launching, that would spell a definitive end to the stalled six-nation talks on ending its nuclear weapons program.
 North Korea says it will launch a satellite between April 4 and 8. The United States, Japan and South Korea consider the launching tantamount to a missile test and have all warned that they would try to punish what they called a ''provocative'' move in the United Nations Security Council. 
 They say that for North Korea, a country that has hardly enough money to feed its own people, the costly satellite program is nothing but a disguise for testing its long-range ballistic missile technology because launching a satellite and a ballistic missile uses the same technology.
 The North derides that conclusion. ''It is perversity to say satellite launch technology cannot be distinguished from a long-range missile technology,'' a spokesman for the North's Foreign Ministry was quoted as saying on Tuesday by the country's official news agency, K.C.N.A.
 That ''is like saying a kitchen knife is no different from a bayonet,'' said the spokesman, who was not named in the report, adding that the United States and Japan had put satellites into orbit.
 After North Korea detonated a nuclear device for the first time in 2006, the Security Council adopted a resolution banning North Korea from further nuclear and ballistic missile tests. 
 On Tuesday, North Korea said that any attempt within the Security Council to punish its satellite launching would mean the end of the landmark accord signed by North Korea, the United States, China, South Korea, Japan and Russia on Sept. 19, 2005. The agreement called for North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program in return for economic aid, diplomatic recognition and a security guarantee from the United States. 
 Washington's ''hostility toward us'' violates the ''mutual respect and the spirit of equality'' contained in the agreement, the spokesman said, and compels the North to continue to build its nuclear deterrent, he added.
 The six-nation talks on how to carry out the accord have been stumbling for years, most recently in a dispute over how to verify North Korea's accounting of its nuclear assets, including its plutonium-based nuclear arsenal and a suspected uranium enrichment program.
 ''If the Sept. 19 joint statement is nullified, there will be neither the foundation nor the meaning for the existence of the six-party talks,'' the North Korean spokesman said.
 His statement is the latest in a recent series of pointed statements from the North. Analysts in the region see the belligerent language and the planned launching as part of North Korea's attempt to raise tensions to extract concessions from the United States and South Korea.
 On Tuesday, South Korea's top nuclear negotiator, Wi Sung-lac, arrived in Beijing to meet with the Chinese vice foreign minister, Wu Dawei, before heading to Washington for discussions.
 Neighboring governments want China, the North's major ally and its biggest provider of aid and trade, to exercise its influence on North Korea. 
 Without Chinese support, international sanctions have only limited impact on the North Korean government, which has survived decades of isolation. But Beijing remains wary of American moves to increase economic pressure on North Korea.
 North Korea's prime minister, Kim Yong-il, visited Beijing last week and met with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, both of whom urged the country to resume negotiations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE INDUSTRY (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1023 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Clash of Jazz Impresarios In New York and Newport

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Will New York have a major jazz festival this summer?
 It depends on whom you ask. Festival Network, which has presented the JVC Jazz Festival for the past two years, says it will. But concert promoters, booking agents and others in the jazz world say that because of the economy and a rift between Festival Network and the impresario George Wein, it is possible that New York will lack a big festival for the first time in 37 years.
 In 2007 Mr. Wein, 83, sold his company, Festival Productions -- which produced the JVC Jazz Festival in New York, the jazz and folk festivals in Newport, R.I., and many others -- to Festival Network, which continued to employ him as a producer-emeritus. 
 But Mr. Wein said that he had not been paid since November, and Rhode Island authorities said that they canceled Festival Network's contract to present events at Fort Adams State Park, the festival's longtime home, because of late payments. 
 Muddying the water for jazz fans, Mr. Wein and Chris Shields, the chairman of Festival Network, said they were presenting events in Newport and New York. 
 On Tuesday Mr. Wein said he would be putting on jazz and folk festivals in Newport under his own name, with no connection to Festival Network. He is seeking sponsors for the events, but said he would back them himself if none came through.
 ''We believe that Newport has to be saved, one way or the other,'' Mr. Wein said. 
 But in an e-mail message Mr. Shields said, ''We view George Wein's effort to ensure the legacy of music festivals in Newport as complementary with FN's own effort to produce the Newport Jazz and Newport Folk festivals, the trademarks of which we control.''
 George Wein's Folk Festival 50 is to take place July 31 to Aug. 2, and George Wein's Jazz Festival 55 will run Aug. 7 to 9.
 In addition, the fate of the JVC festival in New York, which usually happens in June, is unclear. Festival Network owns the rights to it, and Mr. Shields said he intended to put on a New York jazz festival in 2009. Mr. Wein, in turn, said he had booked a handful of dates at Carnegie Hall in June, including two nights with Diana Krall, but that without a major sponsor he could not afford to host a full-scale festival. 
 A Carnegie Hall spokeswoman confirmed that a number of dates were being held in June under Mr. Wein's name, but none for Festival Network. A spokesman for JVC, which has sponsored many of Mr. Wein's and Festival Network's events around the world, declined to comment on whether the company would be sponsoring any of the festivals this year.
 Regardless, it may be too late. Scott Southard, who represents dozens of jazz and world-music acts, said he and other booking agents were ''operating with the assumption that it's not going to happen.'' Festival dates are usually secured by January, he said, and since a New York event looked unlikely, many big tours will be bypassing New York.
 ''Artists who are capable of selling Carnegie Hall-level shows have suddenly had one of the cornerstone events pulled out of the booking season,'' Mr. Southard said.
 Mr. Wein said that he felt more obliged to preserve the Newport festivals than the one in New York, where jazz fans have plenty of events to choose from. The Vision Festival, for one, will present avant-garde music, dance and poetry for a 14th year in June.
 ''I'm not necessary in New York,'' Mr. Wein said. ''New York's a jazz festival all year long.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Wein is seeking sponsors for festivals in Newport.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); EVENT MARKETING (78%); MUSIC (72%); TRADEMARK LAW (62%)

COMPANY: VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (84%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1024 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Dial-a-Mattress, in Bankruptcy, Plans Sale to a Rival

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Dial-a-Mattress Operating Corporation, the company that initiated telephone sales of bedding with its 1-800-Mattres jingles, has filed for bankruptcy protection and plans to sell the business to its rival, Sleepy's. 
 The company, owned by Napoleon Barragan, has had a steep drop in sales and more stringent terms from vendors, according to court documents.
 Creditors filed an involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition against Dial-a-Mattress last week, seeking $1.7 million. The company is seeking to convert that to a Chapter 11 reorganization.
 Sleepy's said in a statement on Tuesday that it would provide debtor-in-possession financing to help Dial-a-Mattress operate. The financing is subject to bankruptcy court approval.
 ''We've determined that Sleepy's offers us the best opportunity to recapitalize and move our business plan forward,'' Mr. Barragan said. ''This combination allows us to realign our capital structure and to pursue our historic strength in phone and Internet sales.''
 A spokesman said Dial-a-Mattress's sales had fallen to less than $100 million, from $170 million two years ago.
 In its court filing, the company listed assets of $9.37 million and liabilities of $11.14 million. The company recently closed 15 of its 49 stores and showrooms.
 Unsecured creditors included Sealy, Serta Mattress, Simmons Manufacturing and Tempur-Pedic.
 Sleepy's, a privately owned company based in Bethpage, N.Y., has nearly 700 locations in 11 states.
 Dial-a-Mattress was founded in 1976 by Mr. Barragan, who was inspired by newspaper ads for a meat delivery company called Dial-a-Steak.
 Dial-a-Mattress's franchisees in New England, Connecticut, Philadelphia, central and southern New Jersey and Florida, are separate companies and are not included in the bankruptcy filing.
 Several bedding companies have filed for bankruptcy protection, including Mattress Discounters, Mattress Gallery and Foamex International, as consumers postpone big-ticket purchases in the recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); PETITIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MATTRESSES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); FRANCHISEES (65%)

COMPANY: 1800MATTRESS.COM (95%); SLEEPY'S INC (93%); FOAMEX INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (95%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (95%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (93%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (93%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (93%); NAICS326140 POLYSTYRENE FOAM PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3086 PLASTICS FOAM PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (67%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1025 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: A Hollywood Pitch: Bring the Junkets Back

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The developers of a $350 million luxury hotel and condominium project in this city's historic ''filmland'' district are making a pitch to the motion picture industry: bring the business of promoting movies back to Hollywood. 
 Marty Collins, chief executive of Gatehouse Capital, which is based in Dallas and is building the 305-room W Hotel & Residences in partnership with HEI Hotels & Resorts of Norwalk, Conn., says the hotel has been designed to host an elaborate ritual of movie promotion known as the press junket. 
 Typically, a junket is a weekend-long event involving reporters, publicists, cameramen and film stars. Currently, these promotional events take place almost entirely in the luxury hotels of Beverly Hills, several miles west of Hollywood. 
 One hotel, the Four Seasons Hotel Los Angeles at Beverly Hills, by itself enjoys ''about 90 percent'' of the junket trade, according to Mr. Collins. Jorge Collazo, the Four Seasons' director of marketing, said he could not quantify the market share, but confirmed that his hotel ''definitely has the majority of the junketing business.'' 
 Mr. Collins says he wants to emulate the success of the Four Seasons by bringing movie marketing to the iconic corner of Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street, where the W Hotel is nearing completion. In his words, ''I want to bring Hollywood back to Hollywood.'' 
 The success of the junket business in Beverly Hills, Mr. Collins added, is ''largely a default position, because there are no five-star hotels in Hollywood.''
 The new hotel will ''fill a vacuum in Hollywood in a big way,'' said Leslie Lambert, a regional administrator for the Los Angeles Community Redevelopment Agency, which is overseeing the revitalization of the historic Hollywood district. Developer interest in Hollywood appears high, to judge from more than a dozen current proposals, including a 1.3-million-square-foot Millennium Hollywood residential, office and retail project. Directly across the street from the W Hotel is the proposed Boulevard 6200, with 1,042 rental units.
 Designing a hotel that can accommodate junkets is not a casual undertaking, according to Edward Abeyta, principal of HKS Inc., an architecture firm based in Dallas that is responsible for the hotel-and-condominium complex.
 Junkets are highly structured events and require a specific configuration of hospitality rooms and reception rooms, according to the architect. Some hotel rooms need at least three bathrooms, with two of them large enough for a hair stylist or makeup artist to work in. 
 Those same rooms need to be capable of being emptied of furniture at a moment's notice so they can be transformed into ''taping suites,'' where actors can chat on camera with a succession of reporters and camera operators, who wait their turns in the adjoining hallway. In a single weekend under the lights, actors might grant up to 50 interviews. 
 The hotel floors used for junketing need extra electrical capacity, so that cameramen can plug in their equipment without special backup generators. Fiber optic cables are also helpful, so film crews can transmit interview video directly to stations. 
 Even without the choreography of the junketing floors, the W Hotel presented complex design demands.
 Part of that complexity reflects on-site constraints. The redevelopment agency insisted that the developers work around two historic buildings: the Taft Building, a red brick 1920s office building on the corner of Hollywood and Vine, and a single-story retail building immediately south of the Taft on Vine. 
 Accordingly, the new building, which faces Hollywood Boulevard, rises no higher than 15 stories, the same height as the Taft, which figures prominently in the front facade of the hotel. Before construction of the new hotel and condos, the site was occupied by a group of aging commercial buildings and a parking lot.
 The Taft, which like the second building is not owned by the developers, is an evocative fragment of old Hollywood, and might be seen as reinforcing the theme of preservation in the historic district. ''On the four corners of Hollywood and Vine, three of them have integrated historical buildings into their new structures,'' said Mr. Abeyta, the architect. 
 Directly beneath the hotel is an underground station of the Metro Rail Red Line subway, a line between the San Fernando Valley and downtown Los Angeles. (The hotel site, in fact, is owned by the subway operator, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority of Los Angeles County, which leased the land to the developers for 99 years.)
 The resulting design is a Chinese puzzle of a building, with many interlocking parts. The front of the W Hotel & Residences has a U-shaped footprint that leaves an open courtyard above the subway station. The hotel and a 143-unit condominium complex each occupies a separate tower, connected by a ''bridge'' building. The condo units range in price from $800,000 to $9 million. 
 The hotel tower's second story, which is part of the junket complex, has an open courtyard, for use if the hotel needs extra space for a large party. For a screening room, another attraction aimed at junketeers, the W is building an open-air movie theater in the same courtyard. 
 Like several recent buildings in Hollywood, the front facade of the W Hotel integrates billboards, one horizontal and one vertical, as architectural elements. ''Signage is a key element of many historic buildings in Hollywood, and we thought it was important to identify ourselves with that,'' Mr. Abeyta said. 
 When the W Hollywood hotel opens in November, the junketing wars can commence.
 Mr. Collazo of the Four Seasons, for his part, says he is not anxious. ''It is easy to create a building and make it pretty and have all the proper equipment,'' the marketing manager said.
 ''The part you cannot produce so easily is the wealth of knowledge that comes from experience,'' he added. ''The human resource is clearly an advantage over any new product.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new W Hotel on the corner of Hollywood and Vine will have 305 rooms, but also the layout and equipment needed for the stars of new movies to give taped interviews, which can total as many as 50 over a weekend.
 Marty Collins of Gatehouse Capital is the developer of the W Hotel.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (75%); RESORTS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (92%); HKS INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1026 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Meets Ambitious Fund-Raising Goal 3 Years Early

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
When the City University of New York began an ambitious fund-raising campaign in 2004, the first in the system's history, some were skeptical. ''People were nervous at the time because it was new,'' said Matthew Goldstein, the chancellor and himself a City College alumnus. 
 But on Wednesday Dr. Goldstein is to announce that CUNY reached its $1.2 billion goal three years ahead of schedule, and has expanded the campaign to seek $3 billion by 2015.
 Roger Benjamin, president of the Council for Aid to Education, a nonprofit group that tracks fund-raising by colleges and universities, said CUNY's campaign was unusual for a public system that historically attracted immigrant and working-class students.
 ''They still don't raise as much money as Yale or Harvard, but it's a real success story,'' Mr. Benjamin said. ''This is another indication that alumni are feeling good about the place even in this recession. They obviously seem to be buying in. For an urban public university system, these numbers are really quite dramatic.''
 In a telephone interview, Dr. Goldstein said the donations would not be used to cover basic operating expenses or offset recent cuts in government funding, but to add full-time faculty members and academic programs, as well as for scholarships.
 ''What we're lacking is the ability to make investments beyond the core money provided by tuition and state and local support,'' he said. ''I see philanthropy becoming a more important component in the future.'' 
 More than 200 donors, most of whom are graduates, gave at least $1 million. On Wednesday, CUNY officials expect to announce a $25 million bequest from Bernard and Anne Spitzer to City College's architecture school, which is likely to be renamed for the couple. Mr. Spitzer, a real estate developer and the father of Eliot Spitzer, the former governor, is a 1943 graduate of City College.
 Mr. Spitzer had given to City College in the past, including $2.1 million for a political science professorship in 2006. The $25 million will help pay for a newly renovated building for the architecture school, designed by Rafael Vinoly, at Convent Avenue and 135th Street.
 ''This is going to be a transformational gift for the school of architecture and City College as well,'' said Gregory H. Williams, president of City College, on Tuesday. ''It's going to have a tremendous impact.''
 Other recent large gifts from individuals include $26 million from Andrew S. Grove, a 1960 City College graduate and the co-founder of Intel Corporation, to the college's Grove School of Engineering, and $30 million from William E. Macaulay, a 1966 graduate of City College, and his wife, Linda, for the new Macaulay Honors College, an elite undergraduate program. 
 Dr. Goldstein acknowledged that the new goal might take longer to reach given the economic downturn. ''But we think we'll be successful because the reputation of the university has really been burnished over the past several years,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MAJOR GIFTS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHARITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); REAL ESTATE (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); GOVERNORS (64%); BUILDING RENOVATION (62%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1027 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing the Banks: Views on Main St.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''U.S. Expands Plan to Buy Banks' Troubled Assets'' (front page, March 24):
 It's great to see the stock market react so positively to another government plan to help clean up our current financial morass, one that offers cheap, guaranteed money to private investors, namely huge private investment firms. If that was what the plan was intended to do -- make the market happy -- it succeeded nicely, at least in the short term.
 But I'd bet a majority of Americans would also like to see a second part to the plan. How about another program that also offers cheap, guaranteed money, but this time directed toward the rest of us? How about creating some sort of nationwide, government-backed ''minibank'' franchise as part of a grass-roots cure for our economy, offering very small (starting at, say, $1,000), very low-interest-rate loans that any average citizen can get? 
 Not only would it be effective public relations for a Democratic administration, but also there's little doubt that many, many of us out here could really use some of that $1 trillion right now, even just a small amount.
 Len Hall Laguna Beach, Calif., March 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your March 24 front-page headline ''Rescue Plan, With Fine Print, Dazzles Wall St.'' says it all. Wall Street caused the global financial meltdown and refuses to be held accountable for its mistakes, misdeeds and greed. 
 That Wall Street is now dazzled by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's latest rescue plan suggests that those of us on Main Street are getting a raw deal: corrupt and incompetent bankers receiving yet another windfall at taxpayers' expense.
 Kathryn FitzGerald Toronto, March 24, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''The Bank Rescue'' (editorial, March 24):
 You are correct in the approach that you advocate for insolvent banks. You say ''there is no getting around firing the executives at failing banks, acknowledging the losses, wiping out the shareholders and then deciding how the government can best restructure the institutions.'' 
 What is needed is a surgical approach rather than a series of Band-Aids to cleanse the banking system so the economy can be jump-started sooner rather than much later if at all under the questionable plan offered by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.
 Paul Schoenbaum Williamsburg, Va., March 24, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Financial Policy Despair,'' by Paul Krugman (column, March 23):
 In criticizing Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's plan to establish a public-private partnership to rid the banks of their toxic assets, as opposed to a government takeover, Mr. Krugman doesn't consider the realities of the times. 
 Nationalizing banks goes against most Americans' beliefs. 
 Mr. Geithner's plan is shrewd for a number of reasons. First, it will allow the toxic assets to be priced by the private sector, resolving the biggest stumbling block thus far. 
 Second, if the plan proves unsuccessful in attracting private capital, Mr. Geithner and President Obama can say they at least tried a private-sector solution before having to resort to nationalization. 
 Mr. Geithner may be neither charismatic nor possess oratorical skills, but give him credit for knowing how he must proceed politically to be successful.
 Lloyd Binen Bayside, Queens, March 23, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman believes that President Obama's bank recovery plan won't work. He's convinced that the banks' credit/investment portfolios are virtually worthless and will never yield enough in their sale to be of assistance in returning the banks to solvency. I'm not as convinced as he is.
 In our current environment, ''panic'' values have been placed on the banks' portfolios, and totally hypothetical charges have been applied to the banks' capital. 
 A thorough evaluation of each of the assets by experienced bankers (not necessarily those currently in place) could yield values far in excess of the amounts already debited to capital. 
 Astute negotiation with buyers by competent business people (rather than civil servants, per Mr. Krugman) would further enhance the sales price of the assets.
 There are perfectly healthy segments of the banks' organizations that continue to generate profits and that can generate billions of dollars to offset the losses that might be taken in asset sales.
 Finally, Mr. Krugman doesn't mention the value of the powerful banking franchises built over decades. Depositors and borrowers around the world have remained loyal to the troubled banks. Takeover by the government, as he prefers, would certainly destroy loyalty and sink those franchises.
 Bart Cioccia Manhasset, N.Y., March 23, 2009
 The writer is a retired banker.
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman got it right. The latest financial services rescue plan suggests that the Obama administration has not yet understood how dysfunctional the culture on Wall Street has become. 
 The people who got us into this mess may be smart enough to save themselves, but they have not assumed responsibility for getting the country back on its feet.
 The administration's plan feeds a broken system and reinforces an entrenched mind-set. That mind-set clearly doesn't allow for the kind of creative thinking needed to make any rescue plan work for the American people. 
 The economic crisis presents an opportunity to drive a dagger through the heart of the Wall Street culture. I fear that our leaders will fritter away this opportunity along with our tax dollars.
 Jeanne W. Ross Cambridge, Mass., March 24, 2009
 To the Editor: In the long run, the furor over A.I.G. bailouts may turn out to be the first public outcry over the country's humongous income and wealth inequality. Perhaps political support will now begin to build for developing the considerably more progressive income and wealth taxes needed to help pay the country's bills in future years. 
 Herbert J. Gans New York, March 22, 2009
 The writer is professor emeritus of sociology at Columbia University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (71%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (51%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1028 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: European Bank Resists Printing Money

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
At the European Central Bank, being a maverick means holding steady as others bow to the prevailing winds.
 As its peers in the United States, Britain and Japan crank up monetary printing presses in a bid to prop up their economies, the European bank is resisting the rush to adopt those banking policies.
 The European approach, to many outsiders and even some politicians like Nicolas Sarkozy, the president of France, is hopelessly myopic and likely to leave Europe struggling long after others have resumed growth. But it has become the signature approach of the European Central Bank since credit markets first tightened in August 2007 to consider, before tearing up the rule book, not only the crisis of the moment but what comes later. 
 ''Exaggerated swings without perspective,'' the central bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said recently, ''would delay the return of sustainable prosperity because they would undermine confidence, which is the most precious ingredient in the current circumstances.''
 When others sharply cut interest rates, the European bank was slower to act. When others stepped in to bail out financial institutions, the European bank, constitutionally limited in its powers, left that to national governments.
 And now, with other central banks acting to create money out of thin air because they cannot prime the lending pumps by lowering short-term interest rates any further, the European bank remains wary of the specter of inflation.
 Beneath it all is an aversion to anything that smacks of ''printing money,'' a phrase that evokes Europe's worst economic nightmares, everything from kings debasing their currencies to fight endless wars to the hyperinflation and currency collapses in Germany after it lost two wars in the 20th century.
 But in the view of its critics, the European bank is underestimating the dangerous and unpredictable dynamics of the recession. With the risk of being caught in a downward spiral, they say, the European bank should be actively pushing cash into the economy now, as the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan are all doing.
 ''What they are doing is simply not enough, and this is not one of those downturns that you simply work your way through,'' said Kenneth Wattret, chief euro zone economist at BNP Paribas in London.
 Another danger for the European bank, economists said, is that policies in Washington and London put pressure on the euro by means of the exchange rate.
 The euro has climbed about 10 percent against the dollar since the Fed policy was announced, the logical consequence of a decision to increase the supply of dollars. It is also up sharply against the pound. 
 A sustained strengthening of the euro would price more European exports out of world markets as they recover, giving the American economy a significant leg up without any overt decision to devalue the dollar.
 ''You can't suddenly start engaging in competitive devaluations of your currency,'' said Erik Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs. ''But you can loosen monetary policy domestically, which has the same effect.''
 With the European bank's benchmark interest rate at 1.5 percent, and probably headed lower, the overarching economic policy question in Europe has been whether the central bank in Frankfurt will join the worldwide move to buy financial assets -- whether private bonds or government debt -- as interest rates near zero. This policy is known as quantitative easing.
 The European bank has not ruled out such an effort, as Mr. Trichet has been careful to say repeatedly. For several reasons, though -- some of them institutional but others deeply buried in European culture and history -- it is reluctant to emulate its peers. 
 The European bank is likely to lower interest rates further at its next meeting on April 2, most analysts believe, having overcome qualms about pushing borrowing costs close to zero. And top officials have been hinting that the bank would also extend the length of loans it offered banks as part of its normal operations to ensure they did not get caught short of cash.
 But the bank has thus far avoided anything resembling the Fed's advocacy, which is viewed in Frankfurt as a desperate effort to make up for the lack of political will to fix the American banking system.
 The Fed is trying everything it can think of to infuse cash into the economy, bypassing the dormant financial system that is the gatekeeper of credit in normal times. It has bought a wide array of securities, including government bonds whose rates influence lending costs throughout the economy. That is only necessary, in the view of some European officials, because repeated plans to revamp the banking system have failed.
 Whether the latest plan, presented by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Monday, will fare any better remains an open question.
 Mr. Trichet, though avoiding public criticism of the Fed and the Treasury, has said he is ''deeply impressed'' by European plans to recapitalize the banking system and guarantee certain transactions. 
 European bank officials also often argue that the financial system in Europe is sufficiently different from that in the United States to undermine the effectiveness of quantitative easing.
 About two-thirds of the credit in Europe is extended via bank loans, with the rest coming from debt securities. In the United States, banks account for roughly a third of lending, giving the Fed reason to believe it can help by buying up securities.
 The European bank does not deny that Europe faces a painfully deep recession.
 But Europe, particularly Germany where the central bank is based, is still a place where the fear of inflation is never far from the surface, even as economists debate whether prices will fall or merely hold steady.
 ''It could be fatal for the euro's credibility to have the E.C.B. simply start printing money,'' said Julian Callow, chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital in London. ''It's too much to ask of a currency that is not even a teenager yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The European Central Bank, under its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, is holding steady and not printing money. It is likely, however, to lower interest rates further at its next meeting on April 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); RECESSION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (73%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1029 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tries To Rally Nation To His Agenda

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and ADAM NAGOURNEY; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For just under an hour on Tuesday night, Americans saw not the fiery and inspirational speaker who riveted the nation in his address to Congress last month, or the conversational president who warmly engaged Americans in talks across the country, or even the jaunty and jokey president who turned up on Jay Leno.
 Instead, in his second prime-time news conference from the White House, it was Barack Obama the lecturer, a familiar character from early in the campaign. Placid and unsmiling, he was the professor in chief, offering familiar arguments in long paragraphs -- often introduced with the phrase, ''as I said before'' -- sounding like the teacher speaking in the stillness of a classroom where students are restlessly waiting for the ring of the bell.
 The session in the East Room came at a volatile moment for the new president as he sought to quell Democratic misgivings about his ambitious economic agenda and deflect strong Republican opposition. Speaking past the reporters in the room to the tens of millions of viewers tuning in at home, he tried to reassure the nation that he could solve the crisis that has gripped the economy for more than a year. 
 ''We're beginning to see signs of progress,'' he said, calling for a ''renewed confidence that a better day will come.'' 
 As balky senators from his own party began carving some of the signature proposals out of his budget, Mr. Obama signaled that he could compromise in the short term on a middle-class tax cut and a cap on carbon emissions. But he indicated that he would stand firm on four top priorities, insisting that Congress make progress in those areas.
 ''We never expected when we printed out our budget that they would simply Xerox it and vote on it,'' Mr. Obama said, expressing flexibility about the details as long as his central goals were met. ''The bottom line is that I want to see health care, energy, education and serious efforts to reduce our budget deficit.''
 At a time of anger and anxiety in the country, Mr. Obama showed little emotion. He rarely cracked a joke or raised his voice. Even when he declared himself upset over the $165 million in bonuses paid this month by the American International Group despite its taxpayer bailout, his voice sounded calm and unbothered. ''I'm as angry as anybody about those bonuses,'' he said, adding that executives needed to learn that ''enriching themselves on the taxpayers' dime is inexcusable.''
 To a certain extent, Mr. Obama's demeanor could have been calculated -- an effort, aides said, to lower the temperature after a supercharged week and nudge the country toward what Mr. Obama considers the more pressing issues of fixing the banking system and reviving the economy. Even after excoriating the A.I.G. executives, he cautioned that ''the rest of us can't afford to demonize every investor or entrepreneur who seeks to make a profit.''
 The only time he seemed irritated came when he was asked why the attorney general of New York, Andrew M. Cuomo, seemed to have more success getting A.I.G. executives to return some bonuses than his own administration. Pressed on why he did not express outrage immediately upon learning of the bonuses, Mr. Obama said sharply, ''Well, it took us a couple of days because I like to know what I'm talking about before I speak.''
 Even on one of the most polarizing subjects in American life, race relations, Mr. Obama deviated little from the median. Asked about his impact as the first African-American president, he said the nation experienced ''justifiable pride'' at his inauguration.
 ''But that lasted about a day,'' he said, in perhaps his only joke of the night. ''Right now the American people are judging me exactly the way I should be judged and that is, are we taking the steps to improve liquidity in the financial markets, create jobs, get businesses to reopen, keep America safe?''
 He showed his usual comfort with a wide array of subjects, even as he excluded the nation's big newspapers from the questioning in favor of a more eclectic mix. He signaled that the new conservative government in Israel could make achieving a peace deal more difficult. He expressed patience about dealing with Iran. And he defended his proposal to increase the tax burden on the wealthy.
 This was Mr. Obama as more enervating than energizing, a reminder of the way he could be in his early days as a presidential candidate, before he became defined by rapturous crowds. 
 ''He doesn't seem to emote any real urgency or anger,'' said Matthew Dowd, a former Republican strategist who has often been complimentary of the new president. ''So at times it comes across as a bit distant and intellectual.''
 Joe Trippi, a Democratic consultant, said: ''He said all the right things. But sometimes his confidence makes him seem flat.''
 Still, the news conference came as Mr. Obama is moving from the flush of his inauguration into the grind of Congressional negotiations and shifting public opinions. 
 Over the past month, he has gone from offering near apocalyptic views of the economy to expressing optimism in its underlying strength. 
 Appearing on ''60 Minutes,'' he laughed in talking about the problems he faced, leading his interviewer to ask if he was punch-drunk.
 That was not a question that seemed pertinent Tuesday. He did demonstrate an ability to take a punch, though, and to deliver one. Even beforehand, Republicans criticized his economic agenda, noting that it would amass more debt than the 43 previous presidents combined. Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, called for ''a do-over'' on the budget.
 ''I just think that this might be the most irresponsible piece of legislation I've seen in my legislative career,'' Mr. Boehner said. 
 Mr. Obama fired back hours later: ''Some of the Republican critics have a short memory, because as I recall, I'm inheriting a $1.3 trillion deficit, annual deficit, from them.'' 
 But his Democratic allies are more immediately troublesome as they busily dismantle his budget and rewrite it to their own taste. Mr. Obama, who is scheduled to visit Capitol Hill on Wednesday to meet with Senate Democrats, indicated that plans for a middle-class tax cut and a market-based cap on carbon emissions did not necessarily have to be included in the final version of the budget.
 Instead, he said he could pursue them independently. The $787 billion stimulus plan already passed by Congress authorized a $400 tax credit for two years, so he has time to find ways to finance it permanently. And he suggested that Congress could take steps toward alternative energy in the budget without necessarily incorporating the so-called cap-and-trade system because committees could work on that separately.
 Throughout his time in public life, Mr. Obama has confronted questions about whether he was too detached, too analytical, too intellectual. In the campaign, he was as likely to be compared to Adlai E. Stevenson as he was to John F. Kennedy. And if there is a pattern to Mr. Obama, it is to lumber through periods like this and then become intense and animated at the first sign of trouble.
 Over the long term, Mr. Obama's calm has served him well, in particular at the critical moment in the campaign when the economy began its steep slide. ''That is one of the things people like about him,'' Mr. Trippi said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In his second prime-time news conference, President Obama told the nation, ''We're beginning to see signs of progress.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
President Obama passing a bust of Lincoln on Tuesday night at his news conference in the White House. He said he would be willing to compromise on his budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 From right, Mr. Obama's advisers David Axelrod and Valerie Jarrett and Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff, listening on Tuesday night while the president spoke on the budget. The president plans to meet with Democrats on Capitol Hill on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); BAILOUTS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); TAX RELIEF (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); EMISSIONS (64%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); DAVID AXELROD (57%); JAY LENO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1030 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FUND-RAISING; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Obama Event Has Yet to Sell Out

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
As if the economy were not causing enough consternation at the White House, the first presidential fund-raiser of the year, which will be held Wednesday in Washington, has yet to sell out. An e-mail solicitation went out late Monday, trying to drum up interest among Democrats -- or Obama admirers of any stripe. 
 ''I wanted to let you know that tickets for this Wednesday's concert with the president are about to sell out!'' said the message, signed by Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. ''There are less than 200 left, and I want to make sure you have one more chance to be there for this exciting night!''
 The $100 tickets for general admission seating at the Warner Theater are sold out.
 Tickets still remain for preferred seating, at $250 a person.
 The $1,000 special-guest seating also remains available, even though the premium seats for $2,500 have all been spoken for.
 The reserved platinum terrace -- a $10,000 table for four -- also remains available.
 Mr. Obama is the night's headliner, but Tony Bennett and other special guests are also scheduled to be on hand.
 The Warner Theater event will be the president's second stop of the evening. 
 First, he will drop by the National Museum of Women in the Arts, where a crowd of about 125 will be dining. To be listed as a chairman of the event, the price tag is $100,000. Basic admission is $30,400 per couple.
 JEFF ZELENY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WOMEN (50%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIM KAINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1031 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Secrets of a Pollster

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Stan Greenberg, one of America's most experienced pollsters, sums up the key lesson he learned polling for Bill Clinton, Nelson Mandela, Ehud Barak and Tony Blair: ''Bold leaders in tumultuous times always have at least one crash.''
 They never come out of the box and deliver the scale of progress and change they promise -- not because they are cynical, but because events conspire against them and they encounter competing power centers. What distinguishes the best leaders, he says, is that they learn from their crashes, adjust, persist and succeed. 
 President Obama has hardly crashed. He's just getting started. And many, many people -- at home and abroad -- are rooting for him to succeed. But he definitely is navigating tumultuous times. So when Greenberg called to share the lessons from his new book, ''Dispatches from the War Room'' -- an insider's account about how the world leaders for whom he polled handled their crashes -- I thought: ''Those insights might be very useful right now.'' 
 Greenberg kicks off with Bill Clinton. One of his most vivid memories was trying to judge how voters would react to Clinton breaking his oft-stated promise to cut middle-class taxes, right after his 1992 election. They held focus groups in New Jersey. What struck him most, said Greenberg, was that these voters ''just didn't believe any politician would cut their taxes.'' That wasn't how they were judging Clinton. 
 ''They didn't care about his specific promises,'' said Greenberg. ''They wanted the new president to act in the long-term economic interests of the country. They wanted to make sure everyone was part of the solution, not like in Reagan's years when the wealthy didn't pay their fair share. And they wanted to know that the president wouldn't lose his instinct to look out for ordinary people.'' 
 Lesson: ''Don't be too literal about campaign promises,'' said Greenberg. ''There is a lot of scope for governing, if the people think you're acting in the country's long-term interests and that you're working for them.''
 Tony Blair crashed over New Labor's core identity as a party. Labor had been out of power for 18 years. It got back in thanks to Blair's ability to assure voters that they could trust Labor to be fiscally prudent and, simultaneously, to upgrade Britain's decrepit government hospitals and schools.
 In truth, Blair had to do these serially -- first fix the economy and then the hospitals and schools. But he implied that he would do them simultaneously. When, three years into his term, the lack of new investment became obvious -- crystallized by the story of a cancer patient who could not get a surgery scheduled and by the time she did the cancer had become inoperable -- Blair crashed on the issue of trust. ''Blair and New Labor were forever associated after that with being more spin than real,'' said Greenberg.
 Lesson: Be honest with the public early on when facing huge challenges. They will let you off the hook on a literal campaign promise -- if you level with them early about the difficulties and how long it will take to see progress.
 Ehud Barak became the prime minister of Israel in 1999, and a pillar of his campaign was that Jerusalem must remain Israel's eternal, undivided capital. Yet, at Camp David with President Clinton in 2000, Barak offered the Palestinians a division of Jerusalem. What was most striking, said Greenberg, was how readily the Israeli public accepted that shift.
 ''A position that six months earlier was completely off the table -- dividing Jerusalem -- was now on it,'' said Greenberg. Once the taboo against even hinting at dividing Jerusalem was broken, even Likud voters polled by Greenberg started asking: ''Why should we want to keep these Palestinian neighborhoods?'' Conventional wisdom just fell apart under the logic of it. 
 Lesson: ''Nothing,'' said Greenberg, ''is off the table for a leader who wants to make a bold move'' in the fundamental interest of the country. 
 Finally, Nelson Mandela. Four years after he became South Africa's president in 1994, ''people were demoralized about the lack of change and felt that the African National Congress had betrayed its promise,'' said Greenberg. ''It had failed to deliver housing and jobs, but had delivered a lot of corruption and was at risk of losing its moral authority.''
 That was hard for liberation movement leaders to swallow, but the humble citizens wanted their now remote leaders to acknowledge their plight. Lesson: Mandela was humble enough to say that we haven't brought enough change -- that even he was disappointed -- without threatening the ANC's claim to govern. ''He began to tell a compelling story that explained why advances were slow, pointed to areas of progress and allowed people to be hopeful about future changes,'' said Greenberg.
 The uber-lesson for presidents? You can't be too honest in describing big problems, too bold in offering big solutions, too humble in dealing with big missteps, too forward in re-telling your story or too gutsy in speaking the previously unspeakable. 
 Maureen Dowd is off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (67%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); TONY BLAIR (89%); EHUD BARAK (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1032 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: To Trim Costs, States Relax Hard Line on Prisons

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: CARSON CITY, Nev. 

 BODY:
For nearly three decades, most states have dealt with lawbreakers in two ways: lock more of them up for longer periods, and build more prisons to hold them. Now many governments, out of money and buried under mounting prison costs, are reversing those policies and practices. 
 Some states, like Colorado and Kansas, are closing prisons. Others, like New Jersey, have replaced jail time with community programs or other sanctions for people who violate parole. Kentucky lawmakers passed a bill this month that enhances the credits some inmates can earn toward release.
 Michigan is doing a little of all of this, in addition to freeing some offenders who have yet to serve their maximum sentence. And last Wednesday, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Democrat, signed legislation to repeal the state's death penalty, which aside from ethical concerns was seen as costly. 
 Being tough on crime and sentencing has long been the clear path toward job retention for state lawmakers -- Republicans and Democrats alike. But the economic crisis is forcing them to take a more pragmatic approach as prisoners are increasingly seen less as indistinct wrongdoers and more as expenses that must be reined in. 
 ''When state budgets are flush,'' said Barry Krisberg, president of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency, ''prisons are something that governors and legislators all support, and they don't want to touch sentencing reform. But when dollars are as tight as they are now, you have to make really tough choices. And so now things are in play.''
 Recessions tend to prompt changes to corrections policies. After the recession at the start of this decade, numerous states enacted laws eliminating some long mandatory minimum sentences; several began to offer early release and treatment options to some drug offenders. Those changes, though, were far less reaching than what is happening now and did little to curb exploding corrections budgets.
 In the past 20 years, correction department budgets have quadrupled and are outpacing every major spending area outside health care, according to a recent report by the Pew Center on the States. With 7.3 million Americans in prison, on parole or under probation, states spent $47 billion in 2008, the study said.
 Faced with such costs, even states known for being particularly tough on crime are revisiting their policies and laws. 
 ''In Kentucky, our prison budget is approaching half a billion dollars,'' said J. Michael Brown, secretary of the State Justice and Public Safety Cabinet. ''And as dollars get scarce, it forces a tremendous amount of scrutiny.'' 
 The annual cost to keep someone in prison varies by state, and the type of institution, but the typical cost cited by states is about $35,000, said Peggy Burke of the Center for Effective Public Policy, a nonprofit group that works with local governments on criminal justice matters.
 The most pervasive cost-saving trend among corrections departments has been to look closely at parole systems, in which it is no longer cost-effective to monitor released inmates, largely because too many violate their terms, often on technicalities, and end up back in prison. In California, among the few states to mandate parole for all convicts, parole violators -- not new offenders -- account for the largest percentage of inmates entering the system. 
 New Jersey recently began a program for some offenders on parole with technical violations, like failing to report to a parole officer or changing their address without the officer's approval. Rather than being returned to jail, those former inmates are sent to a center for a clinical assessment of their risks and needs. With that change, the state is on track to save $16.2 million this fiscal year.
 Other states are shortening paroles, or even sentences, to save money. 
 In Kentucky, Gov. Steven L. Beshear, a Democrat, is about to sign a bill that makes permanent a pilot program that offers qualifying inmates credit for time served on parole against sentence dates, in part to avoid a pattern of inmates' choosing to stay in prison rather than risking later parole violations. The trial program saved the state $12 million last year. The state has also adopted a program that gives treatment rather than jail time to select drug offenders.
 In California, where Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, has called for $400 million to be cut from the state's corrections budget, officials are seeking to remove low-level drug offenders from the parole supervision system and to provide them treatment options instead.
 Like other states making such changes, California is led by a governor who long opposed such shifts in prison policies. But Mr. Schwarzenegger, as well as other leaders and lawmakers who are far more conservative, has come around to a view held by advocates of sentencing and prison reform that longer sentences do little to reduce recidivism among certain nonviolent criminals. 
 ''In California we are out of room and we're out of money,'' said the state's corrections secretary, Matthew Cate. ''It may be time to take some of these steps that we should have taken long ago.''
 Several states are also looking at sentencing itself. In New York, for example, Gov. David A. Paterson, a Democrat, has proposed an overhaul of the so-called Rockefeller drug laws that impose lengthy mandatory sentences on many nonviolent drug offenders.
 Some states are simply consolidating operations and closing prisons, which is controversial among lawmakers and often riles a community. Colorado, Kansas, Michigan and New Jersey have all shut down or announced the closing of at least one prison. Others are proposing to do so. 
 Here in Carson City, home to one of the oldest state prisons in the country, the state estimates it would save $18 million a year by closing the prison. But the idea has rattled employees, some of whom have followed their parents' career paths, and the community, which considers the prison a provider of jobs and an important piece of Nevada history. 
 ''We are the oldest prison west of the Mississippi,'' the warden, Greg Smith, said during a tour last week. ''And the staff here takes a lot of pride in that.'' 
 The 220-year-old prison is older than the state of Nevada, and the buildings, according to officials, sit on land filled with saber-toothed tiger prints. It first housed men who gave ''firewater'' to Indians and is where the state's license plates are made. But the prison's aging facilities have raised questions about its efficiency compared with modern counterparts. 
 The lament is similar in Michigan, where three prisons are set to be closed and more are being studied.
 ''As the economy has worsened, prisons are the modern-day factory in our rural areas,'' said Russ Marlan, a spokesman for the Michigan Corrections Department. ''We built these prisons in the 1980s, and people were adamantly opposed to having them in their communities. Now we go and try to take them out, and they don't want them gone.'' 
 Meanwhile, some states that revised parole and sentencing in boom times are fighting a different battle: to hold on to the financing that made those changes possible.
 In Kansas, for instance, where drug treatment has replaced incarceration for some offenders and mentally ill offenders have received housing assistance, the prison population fell in recent years, largely because recidivism also declined, said Roger Werholtz, secretary of the Kansas Corrections Department. Now many of those programs have fallen victim to budget cuts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Deerfield Correctional Facility in Ionia, Mich., was closing, so inmates were put on a bus to be transported to another prison, in Muskegon.
 Corrections officers at Deerfield carrying chains for the final 33 of 1,200 prisoners being transferred to another prison. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFREY SAUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRISONS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PAROLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); PROBATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ETHICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON CRIME & DELINQUENCY (55%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1033 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: U.S. PLAN SEEKING EXPANDED POWER IN SEIZING FIRMS

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and ERIC DASH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration and the Federal Reserve, still smarting from the political furor over the bailout of American International Group, began a full-court press on Tuesday to expand the federal government's power to seize control of troubled financial institutions deemed too big to fail. 
 In his news conference on Tuesday night, President Obama said the government could have handled the A.I.G. bailout much more effectively if it had had the same power to seize large financial companies as it did to take over failed banks.
 ''It is precisely because of the lack of this authority that the A.I.G. situation has gotten worse,'' Mr. Obama said, predicting that ''there is going to be strong support from the American people and from Congress to provide that authority.''
 Earlier on Tuesday, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, offered a proposal that would allow the government to take control, restructure and possibly close any kind of financial institution that was in trouble and big enough to destabilize the broader financial system. 
 The federal government has long had the power to take over and close banks and other deposit-taking institutions whose deposits are insured by the government and subject to detailed regulation. 
 But the Obama administration and the Fed would extend that authority to insurance companies like A.I.G., investment banks, hedge funds, private equity firms and any other kind of financial institution considered ''systemically'' important. That would let the government for the first time take control of private equity firms like Carlyle or industrial finance giants like GE Capital should they falter.
 The Treasury and the Fed each sent their own proposals to the House Financial Services Committee on Tuesday, and President Obama has asked Congressional leaders to put the legislation on a fast track. House Democrats said they planned to act quickly and hoped to bring a bill to the House floor within the next several weeks. 
 If Congress approves such a measure, it would represent one of the biggest permanent expansions of federal regulatory power in decades. But scores of questions remained on Tuesday about how the authority would actually work, and industry experts cautioned that it would only be one step in a broad overhaul of financial regulation that President Obama and Congress were beginning to map out.
 Mr. Geithner, testifying before the House Financial Services Committee, said the government could have grappled more effectively with A.I.G. -- an insurance conglomerate over which neither the Fed nor any other federal bank regulator had much authority -- if the Treasury had already had broader authority to ''resolve'' troubled institutions.
 ''As we have seen with A.I.G., distress at large, interconnected, nondepository financial institutions can pose systemic risks just as the distress at banks can,'' Mr. Geithner told lawmakers. ''We will do what is necessary to stabilize the financial system, and with the help of Congress, develop the tools that we need to make our economy more resilient.''
 Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said that such powers would have allowed the government to scale back A.I.G.'s contracts to pay outsize bonuses and perhaps negotiate lower payments to the domestic and foreign banks that were among its creditors. 
 ''If a federal agency had had such tools on Sept. 16, they could have been used to put A.I.G. into conservatorship, unwind it slowly, protect policyholders and impose haircuts on creditors and counterparties,'' Mr. Bernanke told lawmakers.
 But even as they made their case, administration officials left many of the big questions unanswered. Among them: what kinds of companies are ''systemically important'' and how does that get decided? What should be the government's ultimate goal -- to wind down the troubled company as quickly and smoothly as possible, or to rehabilitate it and return it to health? 
 Under Mr. Geithner's plan, the decision-making power would lie primarily with Treasury and the F.D.I.C., though the Treasury would have to consult with the White House and the Fed.
 But that idea could clash with plans to create a new, overarching ''risk regulator'' that would be responsible for monitoring risk across the financial system. Some lawmakers have proposed that the Fed, which is already at the heart of the financial system, should play that role.
 Other experts say the F.D.I.C. would be a more logical choice, taking advantage of its experience in taking over smaller banks. Supporters of this approach are concerned that the Fed will be overburdened with its regulatory duties and note that the Fed failed for years to exercise its authority to regulate dangerous mortgage practices. 
 Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase and an outspoken supporter for creating a systemic risk regulator, said it was hard to expand the government's authority to seize troubled financial companies without also dealing with the regulatory issues. ''You can't take care of your heart and not your lungs,'' he said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. ''You need someone to look behind the corners and to say something like, 'this company is too big or too risky.' ''
 Mr. Dimon said that giving the government this power would have provided a process for dealing with failing institutions like Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, Wachovia and A.I.G. 
 ''You don't want too big to fail,'' he said. ''You want a resolution process where the process doesn't damage the whole system.''
 Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, plans to start drafting a bill in the next several days. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said Congress might consider putting the oversight authority in the hands of a task force, rather than consolidating it at the Fed. 
 Mr. Dodd talked of establishing a council that includes the Fed, the F.D.I.C. and the Office of Comptroller of the Currency to avoid giving too much power to a single agency. ''I for one would be sort of intrigued in looking at alternative ideas,'' Mr. Dodd said. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Geithner plans to outline his broader plan for overhauling the financial regulatory system. 
 On Friday, President Obama plans to meet at the White House with top executives from many of the nation's largest financial institutions to discuss his financial stabilization effort.
 Administration officials have said their regulatory plan will create a broad role for the Fed as the lead risk regulator. 
 The administration is also expected to propose tighter regulation for derivative financial products, like the credit-default swaps that caused most of A.I.G.'s problems, and to require that such instruments be traded in a more transparent manner on exchanges or through clearinghouses.
 Mr. Geithner made it clear on Tuesday that he would be pushing for tighter oversight of executive compensation, in part to make sure that financial incentives did not encourage reckless financial practices. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke testified Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1034 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Specter Says He Won't Back Union Bill Again

BYLINE: By KATE PHILLIPS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Arlen Specter, who was the lone Republican to side with Democrats on the Senate's last vote on union-organizing legislation, announced Tuesday that he would not vote for this session's bill. 
 The measure, known as the Employee Free Choice Act, would make it far easier to form unions by giving workers the right to unionize as soon as a majority of employees in a workplace signed cards in agreement. It has faced an uphill battle, with business groups generally opposed to any expansion of unions and some opponents contending that the bill would end secret ballots in union elections. 
 With some Democrats expressing ambivalence on the bill, the Democratic sponsors indicated before Mr. Specter's announcement that they did not have the 60 votes to move it forward. 
 Mr. Specter, whose re-election campaign next year for his Pennsylvania seat may include a tough primary rematch with Patrick J. Toomey, a conservative former congressman, said Tuesday that his decision was based not on politics but on the poor economic conditions for businesses and the availability of other avenues to expand collective bargaining. 
 The National Republican Senatorial Committee, the party's election arm, indicated a few weeks ago that it would be hard-pressed to help candidates whose views on this issue were out of sync with the national party.
 In 2007, Mr. Specter cast the lone Republican vote on a procedural move to advance the bill; that effort fell one vote short of the 60 needed. He said then that he did not support the bill on its merits, but endorsed the need for Congress to revisit labor issues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (52%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (91%); PAT TOOMEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1035 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Next Foreign Crisis Could Be Next Door

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and GINGER THOMPSON; Marc Lacey reported from Mexico City, and Ginger Thompson from Washington. Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico City.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Mexico's economy is being dragged down by the recession to the north. American addicts have turned Mexico into a drug superhighway, and its police and soldiers are under assault from American guns. Nafta promised 15 years ago that Mexican trucks would be allowed on American roads, but Congress said they were unsafe.
 United States-Mexican relations are in the midst of what can be described as a neighborly feud, one that stretches along a lengthy shared fence. That border fence, which has become a wall in some places, is another irritant. 
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clintonarrives in Mexico on Wednesday for what will be the first in a parade of visits by top administration officials, including President Obama himself next month, to try to head off a major foreign policy crisis close to home. They will find a country mired in a deepening slump, miffed by signs of protectionism in its largest trading partner, and torn apart by a drug war for which many in Mexico blame customers in the United States. 
 There is plenty of angst on the other side as well. Many American communities are worried about drug violence spilling over the border, and about Mexican immigrants taking scarce jobs. That is forcing the Obama administration, already managing two wars and a deep recession, to fashion a new Mexico policy earlier than it might have wished.
 Mr. Obama, like President George W. Bush before him, is finding that these foreign challenges touch on some of the thorniest issues in domestic politics, including immigration, free trade and gun control. The Bush administration disturbed relations by failing to deliver on its promise of immigration reform. And the Obama administration, in its first weeks in office, has set off new tensions with a series of conflicting signals and false starts.
 Some in the administration have suggested that the Mexican government is not in control of all of its territory, even as other officials praise President Felipe Calderon's resolve to fight the drug trade. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. urged and then backed away from reinstituting a ban on sales of assault rifles, which are fueling the drug violence. 
 Mr. Obama acknowledged contingency plans to deploy troops to the border if too much of the violence spilled over into the United States, but he said almost in the same breath that no such deployment was imminent.
 ''I think it's unacceptable if you've got drug gangs crossing our borders and killing U.S. citizens,'' Mr. Obama told reporters when asked if he might deploy troops. ''I think if one U.S. citizen is killed because of foreign nationals who are engaging in violent crime, that's enough of a concern to do something about it.''
 The bloody drug war, which has caused 7,000 deaths in 16 months, has become the principal sore point between the countries. Although addiction rates among Mexicans are on the rise, the vast majority of the drugs flowing through Mexico will be sniffed, smoked or injected by Americans. On top of that, 90 percent of the guns used by Mexican drug cartels originated in the United States, according to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. 
 The suggestion by Mr. Obama that American troops might be moved toward the border to combat drug cartels prompted Gen. Guillermo Galvan, Mexico's defense secretary, to assert that no deployment of foreign soldiers would be allowed on Mexican soil. History was at the root of the concern here, as even Mexican schoolchildren know of the war a century and a half ago in which the United States seized half of Mexico's territory.
 Also riling the Mexicans was Congressional testimony by Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, suggesting that drug cartels controlled some parts of Mexico. The Calderon administration reacted angrily, with Interior Minister Fernando Gomez Mont saying that such remarks ''are unfortunate and don't contribute to generating a climate of confidence that is indispensable to win this fight.''
 For his part, Mr. Calderon has spoken of an American ''campaign'' against Mexico, and has pointed out that the murder rate is higher in New Orleans than in his country. Mexico's battered image, as outlined in State Department travel advisories, is of particular concern to Mr. Calderon because it scares off potential investors and tourists.
 The litany of angry rebuttals from Mexico has grown so fierce that an American diplomat here, Leslie Bassett, wrote a column in a Mexican newspaper the other day, saying, ''No Obama appointee has referred to Mexico as a failed state; every Obama appointee posed the question has acknowledged the existing security challenges, commended President Calderon's fortitude, and dismissed the idea out of hand.'' 
 State Department officials said that one of the critical goals of Mr. Obama's visit would be to ''open the aperture'' of the bi-national agenda so that the relationship was not limited -- some say, held hostage -- to a single issue. 
 ''It is important to underscore that this is a big relationship,'' Assistant Secretary of State Thomas A. Shannon Jr. said in an interview. ''It is very broad and deep. And it should not be narrowed down to a couple of issues.'' 
 Few of those issues are simple, however.
 After the United States shut the border to Mexican trucks, in violation of a promise it made under the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mexico placed tariffs on 89 American products, from grapes to dishwashers, in some cases appearing to select items from the districts of well-connected members of Congress to increase the action's impact. 
 Mexico is reeling from the recession in the United States. Although Mr. Calderon speaks often of how well prepared his country is for the global downturn, Mexico's export factories have lost some 65,000 jobs since October, one of many tangible effects. Exports fell 32 percent in January, and automobile exports fell 50 percent in the first two months of 2009. Mexico's central bank expects the economy to contract no more than 1.8 percent this year, but some investment banks forecast shrinkage of as much as 5 percent.
 Last week, Mr. Obama made clear that many problems, including the drug trade and immigration reform, will have to be dealt with together. 
 ''I don't think we can do this piecemeal,'' Mr. Obama said during a town hall meeting in California. ''I'm going to be working with President Calderon in Mexico to figure out how we get control over the border that's become more violent because of the drug trade. We have to combine that with cracking down on employers who are exploiting undocumented workers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mexican soldiers checked identification during a drugs and weapons search last week in Reynosa, near the United States border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
A recently completed section of the fence the United States is building along the Mexican border crosses desert sands between Yuma, Ariz., and Calexico, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 Mexican soldiers near Miguel Aleman, on the Texas border. President Felipe Calderon has bolstered antidrug operations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); FIREARMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GUN CONTROL (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); GANGS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); LAWYERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%); ERIC HOLDER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUMA, AZ, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1036 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Obama Selling His Economic Plan on the Airwaves, Again

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
Had enough yet? Tune into CNN and you may find President Obama's latest public town hall meeting. Flip to NBC and you might come across the president yukking it up with Jay Leno. Turn to ESPN, and there he is giving his college basketball picks. Click over to CBS and there he is once again, chatting with Steve Kroft on ''60 Minutes.''
 Mr. Kroft at one point asked Mr. Obama if he was ''punch drunk.'' If he was not, a lot of others must be by now. 
 But the blitz is not over yet. Viewers hoping to escape reality won't find their reality television at 8 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday, since the president will once again command the airwaves with a prime-time news conference, this time on all the major broadcast and cable news networks. Compared with March Madness and Mr. Leno's joshing, an East Room news conference may be a little staid, but it will keep Mr. Obama in the klieg lights. 
 ''The president believes that a continued dialogue with the American people about where we are and where we're going is necessary, certainly in times like this, to give people a sense of what we're doing and a sense of where we're going -- that they may or may not like all the decisions that he makes, but I think he believes it's important that they understand why he's making the decisions that he is,'' Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said on Monday.
 It should come as little surprise, then, that all the varied attempts at carrying on that dialogue have some in Washington wondering whether the president is becoming overexposed. Even before last week's torrent, George Will, the columnist, wrote that Mr. Obama's schedulers ''should remember what a contemporary said of Thomas Babington Macaulay, a prodigiously articulate but oppressively constant talker: 'He has occasional flashes of silence that make his conversation perfectly delightful.' ''
 Mr. Obama's aides, for the moment, do not appear to be all that worried about overexposure, counting on his communications skills and political popularity to build momentum for his ambitious economic agenda. 
 With that in mind, here are a half-dozen things to watch for Tuesday night:
 Can the president turn the corner on A.I.G.? Mr. Obama lost an entire week, and perhaps some political capital, trying to deflect and channel populist outrage over $165 million in bonuses paid to employees in the same division of American International Group that helped touch off the financial crisis
 Look for his answer to the question about proposed legislation to tax those bonuses, and others at big banks that have taken a lot of federal taxpayer bailout money, at a 90 percent rate. The White House at first seemed to embrace the idea, which has passed the House and is now working its way through the Senate. But each day has brought more backtracking, and by the time he was on ''60 Minutes,'' Mr. Obama was raising red flags about using the tax code punitively.
 Can he sell the latest Treasury bank plan? Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's do-over plan to get some so-called toxic assets off the books of the big banks and subsidize their resale received largely positive reviews on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrial average soared nearly 500 points, or 7 percent, onMonday. Presumably, that will mute at least some calls for Mr. Geithner to resign over the A.I.G. fiasco.
 Still, look for a barrage of tough questions about whether the plan will work and whether it represents a reasonable risk for taxpayers, as well as questions about the administration's ideas for new powers to seize financial firms other than banks that get into trouble. And since Mr. Geithner will be on Capitol Hill during the day answering questions about what he knew about the A.I.G. bonuses and when he knew it, the Treasury secretary may not be out of the woods yet.
 Will he address international issues? Mr. Obama presumably will try to lay the groundwork for his first big foreign trip next week. He is scheduled to visit London for a meeting of the Group of 20 major nations to discuss the economic crisis, followed by a NATO summit and visits to Prague and Istanbul. Mr. Obama has tried to play down differences with Europe about how to address the global recession.
 Mr. Obama may be asked about his televised message to Iranians on the occasion of Nowruz, the Persian new year, and his plans to push NATO to do more to help in Afghanistan. But the economy has tended to dominate both Mr. Obama's public statements and the questions posed to him by journalists since he took office two months ago.
 Will he make any gaffes? Mr. Obama can be an exceptionally careful public speaker, to the point that he uses teleprompters more often than past presidents have -- at his first news conference, he read his opening statement from the machines, which then sank to the floor during the question-and-answer session. But he has discovered that his sometimes awkward attempts at humor have not always gone over well. 
 After the November election, he made a joke about Nancy Reagan's interest in astrology that prompted him to call her to apologize. Then last week, on ''The Tonight Show,'' he compared his bowling scores to the Special Olympics, prompting a contrite call to the head of the organization. When he joked about bailing out automakers on ''60 Minutes,'' Mr. Kroft asked if he was making light of the misery of many Americans. Just a little ''gallows humor,'' the president said.
 Will he call on non-traditional questioners? At his first prime-time news conference as president on Feb. 9, Mr. Obama skipped over representatives of The Wall Street Journal, The Los Angeles Times and other mainstays of the White House press corps to call on a representative of The Huffington Post, a liberal web site. He may again expand the range of journalists he calls on, as the news media continue to evolve and as his White House asserts its independence from old ways of doing things.
 Can he keep the audience engaged? So far, Mr. Obama has been a ratings hit. More than 49.5 million people watched his first prime-time news conference, while his appearance on the ''The Tonight Show'' was watched in 12.8 million homes, tying for the fourth most-watched show of Mr. Leno's nearly 16 years as host. Mr. Obama's interview on ''60 Minutes'' helped it to win the night, drawing 16.2 million viewers.
 Even so, Mr. Obama's first news conference did not do as well as some of those by his predecessors. President Bill Clinton's first prime-time session with reporters after his inauguration in January 1993 drew 64.3 million viewers, and Mr. Bush's news conference a month after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, drew 64.8 million, according to the Nielsen service. 
 Of course, viewers have more opportunities to avoid a president these days. Nielsen pointed out that the average American home had 40 channels to watch in 1993 and 61 in 2000, but more than 118 now. 
 Where is that remote, anyway?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); BAILOUTS (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); WRITERS (62%); BONUS PAY (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JAY LENO (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1037 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Democrats in Congress Are Ready to Pare Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Alarmed by rising deficit predictions, Congressional Democrats prepared Tuesday to pare spending in President Obama's budget and limit some middle-class tax cuts even as Republicans stepped up their criticism of the plan as irresponsible.
 The draft unveiled Tuesday by Senate Democrats reflected significant changes to Mr. Obama's proposal. It drops his appeal to set aside money for future bank bailouts, provides only a temporary fix for a mandatory income tax increasingly hitting the middle class and leaves open-ended the handling of major health care and energy initiatives. Administration officials sought to play down any differences, saying they were satisfied with the emerging plans. 
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, said the base proposal he would present saved $608 billion over five years compared with the president's plan. 
 The difference comes mainly from scaling back efforts to rein in a mandatory minimum income tax that is creeping up on the middle class, dropping $250 billion for a new round of bank bailouts, and increasing spending on nonmilitary federal programs by 7 percent rather than the 10 percent proposed by the president for a savings of $160 billion.
 The Democrats' budget does not provide for Mr. Obama's signature middle-class tax cut, called Making Work Pay, of $400 for individuals earning $75,000 and $800 for couples with incomes up to $150,000 after 2010.
 ''We show what our numbers would accommodate, and they would not accommodate Making Work Pay,'' said Mr. Conrad. 
 But he said the budget would retain other middle-class tax breaks, including relief from the so-called marriage penalty, the child tax credit and new education benefits.
 The Senate Democratic plan also does not set a dollar amount for a health care overhaul fund; Mr. Obama called for $634 billion to be set aside for health care changes over the next decade. But Mr. Conrad said the budget created special reserve funds that would allow legislation on both health care and energy as long as those plans did not add to the deficit.
 ''We think we have provided for the key priorities of the president,'' said Mr. Conrad, who said it would be left to the relevant committees of Congress to fill in the details. ''It gives maximum flexibility to the committees to write the legislation.'' 
 He said the budget called for a deficit of $508 billion by the fifth year, which he said would meet his target of holding it under 3 percent of gross domestic product.
 Though Republicans have shown no inclination to back the president's budget, they accused Democrats of abandoning some elements of his plan that were initially praised as a step toward more honest budgeting, including a 10-year forecast and acknowledging the need to account for the alternative minimum tax.
 ''You can get these presidential numbers down through using a lot of gimmicks that the president didn't use, reinstating gimmicks,'' said Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, senior Republican on the Budget Committee. ''That would be a mistake. Let's be honest with the American people.''
 In the House, Congressional officials said lawmakers were inclined to include a provision that would prevent Republican filibusters of health care legislation arising out of the budget. Republicans are feverishly trying to head off such a provision.
 But even House officials say they may not use the procedure to skirt filibusters to advance Mr. Obama's proposal to impose new federal fees on businesses responsible for carbon emissions, suggesting that the plan is a lower priority than health care for Congressional Democrats.
 Despite the differences in the Senate blueprint, Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said the major elements of the president's agenda were protected in the budget.
 ''On the four key areas the president has spoken about -- health care, clean energy, education and cutting the deficit in half -- the House and Senate budget resolutions will reflect those,'' Mr. Orszag said.
 He acknowledged the absence of Mr. Obama's middle-class tax cut beyond 2010, but said Congress and the administration would have two years to resolve the issue.
 There are some smaller differences that Congress and the White House will have to work out, including the financing of some transportation programs and a disagreement over the way the budget treats Pell Grant college scholarships.
 Republicans are preparing amendments to try to change the budget in the committee, including one that would freeze spending at current levels.
 ''The outrage the budget has created is legitimate because, if passed, it would change the nature of our economy and our historic belief in limited government,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama.
 In recent years, Congressional budgets have drawn little interest, and Congress has even failed on some occasions to pass one. But Mr. Obama's plan, and the Congressional handling of it, is drawing heightened scrutiny because the administration used its spending blueprint to lay out an ambitious plan of health, energy, education and transportation proposals. A failure by the new White House to get most of its agenda reflected in the new budget would be viewed as a significant setback.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Judd Gregg on Tuesday at a briefing on the Obama budget with Senator Jeff Sessions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); BANK FAILURES (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); MARRIAGE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KENT CONRAD (79%); JUDD GREGG (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1038 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 340 words

 BODY:
OBAMA SEEKS TAKEOVER POWER The Obama administration is asking Congress for authority to take over distressed institutions like insurance companies without having to compromise on issues like bonuses. 
 IT PAYS TO BE A HEDGE MANAGER In a year when two out of every three hedge funds lost money, the top 25 fund managers were paid a total of $11.6 billion, down from $22.5 billion in 2007. [B1.] 
 HEALTH INSURANCE PROPOSALPresident Obama has proposed a plan to insure anyone, at any age, in competition with commercial insurers, who oppose it. [B1.]
 The health insurance industry said it was willing to end its practice of charging higher premiums to sick people in exchange for a requirement that all Americans carry insurance. [B1.]
 CONTROLLING MONEY SUPPLY As the United States, Britain and Japan print money to prop up their economies, the European Central Bank is resisting, which world leaders like Nicolas Sarkozy of France, above, say will keep Europe in the doldrums. [B5.] 
 BRITISH INFLATION RISES The recession in Britain provided no respite from inflation for consumers last month, as the weak pound pushed up prices for food and other imported goods. [B5.] 
 SEVERE LOSSES FOR AIRLINES Losses for the world's airline industry, grappling with its deepest crisis in 60 years, will total nearly $5 billion this year. [B3.]
 THE 'LAST S' IS GONE FOR GOOD Dial-a-Mattress, the company that sold bedding with its 1-800-Mattres jingles, has filed for bankruptcy protection and plans to sell to a rival. [B2.]
 BLOCKBUSTER, VIA TIVO Blockbuster, its debt problems resolved for now, will announce a partnership with TiVo to deliver digital movies over the Internet directly to the televisions of people with TiVo digital video recorders. [B3.]
 BUY IT, IT'S NEW Marketers are reaching for the oldest selling point they have: ''It's New!'' Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [B3.]
 AFTER A GAIN, A RETREAT Shares fell, giving back some of the gains they posted a day earlier, as investors took a second look at the economic rescue plan. [B10.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); FOOD PRICES (67%); AIRLINES (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); INTERNET VIDEO (63%)

COMPANY: 1800MATTRESS.COM (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); SLEEPY'S INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (82%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (82%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (67%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (67%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1039 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Czech Parliament Votes Government Out, Clouding the U.S. Antimissile Plan

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
The Czech government lost a parliamentary vote of no confidence on Tuesday, suffering an embarrassing defeat midway through its presidency of the European Union and casting doubt on the country's ability to shepherd the world's biggest trading bloc during a time of economic crisis.
 Unlike Iceland, Latvia and Hungary, whose governments have tottered directly because of the economic crisis, the Czech government of Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek seemed to be collapsing more as a result of political infighting. The center-right ruling coalition has always been fragile, and the leftist opposition sensed -- rightly, it turned out -- particular weakness less than two weeks before President Obama's visit to Prague to bolster closer trans-Atlantic relations. 
 Mr. Topolanek said Tuesday that he would resign after the motion passed, 101 to 96, in the 200-seat lower house. 
 Analysts said the collapse of the government would take the shine off the meeting between Mr. Topolanek, a young and telegenic prime minister, and Mr. Obama, a young and telegenic president, which was intended to show that the United States and the European Union were united to save the global economy. 
 ''This is a humiliation for the government that will now be hijacked by internal political infighting,'' said Tomas Sedlacek, a leading economist who was an adviser to former President Vaclav Havel. ''What kind of respect can the president of the E.U. have in the eyes of the world when it is led by someone who is politically dead, who is a political zombie?'' 
 Analysts said that under the Czech Constitution, the vote would not lead immediately to early elections and Mr. Topolanek and his top ministers could stay on for months until President Vaclav Klaus appoints a new prime minister who can gain the support of a majority in Parliament. 
 But the analysts noted that until a new government was convened, the vote meant the European Union presidency would be held by a country in which the Parliament did not have faith in the government.
 ''I believe it can complicate our negotiating power,'' Mr. Topolanek said. ''Partners in Europe have grown used to us negotiating hard.'' 
 He said he favored new elections this summer if no new government were formed. 
 Jiri Paroubek, the Social Democratic leader who called the vote of no confidence, said he wanted the cabinet to stay on until June to avoid disrupting the team running the European Union presidency. He said a government of nonpartisan experts could then take over until early elections in the fall or next spring. Regular elections are due in mid-2010. 
 Even if the cabinet remains, analysts said the government's collapse would undermine principal foreign policy aims of Mr. Topolanek's coalition, including plans for construction of a United States missile defense installation in the country, which is already under review by Washington. This month, the Czech government temporarily withdrew treaties on the installation from the parliamentary ratification agenda in the face of an opposition threat to vote them down. 
 Karel Schwarzenberg, the foreign minister, sought to play down the significance of the vote, saying the opposition's attempts to score political points would backfire. 
 ''Paroubek is convinced that attacking the whole time is the best tactic and that will help him win elections,'' he said in an interview before the vote. ''But the Czech people don't like it and would prefer that we have a cease-fire when we have the presidency of the E.U.''
 He emphasized that even with the no-confidence vote, under the Czech Constitution, the prime minister and his top ministers could stay on until after the Czechs' presidency of the European Union ends in June. ''Our work as president of the E.U. will go on anyway,'' Mr. Schwarzenberg said. ''Our European partners will see at the next E.U. conference that we are all there.'' 
 Analysts noted that although the Czech vote had been spurred by political infighting, it would nevertheless have the effect of undermining the Czech economy by unsettling already jittery foreign investors. 
 Political analysts said one of the greatest beneficiaries of the crisis could prove to be Mr. Klaus, an outspoken economic liberal, who is skeptical of the European Union. He founded the Civic Democratic Party of Mr. Topolanek, but in recent months he has criticized the prime minister for being too fervent an advocate of greater European integration, and he recently resigned as honorary chairman of the party. 
 Under the Constitution, as president he has to designate a new prime minister, making him the new kingmaker in Czech politics. 
 ''Klaus is the big star when the government fails,'' said Adam Cerny, a commentator for the newspaper Hospodarske Noviny, referring to the president. ''With Topolanek as a lame-duck prime minister, he and his controversial views will once again be back in the spotlight.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: VACLAV KLAUS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); LATVIA (92%); ICELAND (92%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009



1040 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Weak Demand at Treasury Auction Gives Wall Street Pause

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
In an early sign that Washington may have to pay more to finance huge stimulus plans to fix the economy, investors hesitated at buying a government debt issue on Wednesday, forcing the Treasury to pay a higher interest rate than expected.
While the government ended up paying only a fraction of a percentage point more to sell the notes, the tepid response set off a sudden decline in stock prices, though they recovered in the last hour of trading. The news also led some experts to wonder whether investors' appetite for Treasuries -- considered safe investments -- is beginning to wane. 
If so, it could spell trouble for the Obama administration as it borrows unprecedented sums to pay for the hundreds of billions of dollars it is spending to keep the country from sliding deeper into recession. The Treasury is issuing a record $98 billion in notes this week alone, and it will sell more to finance the government's $787 billion stimulus plan and other projects.
A failed bond auction in Britain -- the first since 2002 -- added to the turmoil as the sale of $:1.75 billion ($2.57 billion) of 40-year bonds drew only $:1.63 billion of bids. The British government said it could make up the difference in future auctions.
The Treasury fared far better as it auctioned $34 billion in five-year notes: It drew less demand than the previous sale, and the government paid yields of 1.85 percent, compared with expectations of 1.8 percent.
Less investor demand for bonds raises their yields, and consequently, lifts the interest that governments pay to bondholders. But because government bonds are used as a benchmark for the interest rates charged all types of debt, including home mortgages, a sustained rise in their yields could ripple through the economy.
The two events offered a hint that investors who had forsaken returns for the safety of government debt as the economy worsened might now be rethinking their positions.
''The government's biggest challenge this year, other than trying to stabilize the financial markets, is being able to finance their efforts to stabilize the financial markets,'' said Jane Caron of Dwight Asset Management. ''Investors are demanding a little bit more.''
The stock market quavered on Wednesday, giving up its early gains as investors worried about the cool reception to the day's auction of five-year Treasury notes. But skittish markets rebounded in the last minutes of trading to close higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 89.84 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 7,749.81 points, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.76 points, or 1 percent, to 813.88, extending a bear-market rally that has lifted stock markets 20 percent on renewed fragments of economic optimism. The Nasdaq was 0.8 percent higher, or 12.43 points, at 1,528.95.
Banking stocks led the way higher. Shares of home builders, manufacturers and other industrial companies also surged as the government said that orders for durable goods rose unexpectedly last month and that new-home sales had rebounded.
Rising interest rates on longer-term Treasury notes can make borrowing more expensive for home buyers, consumers and businesses. The Federal Reserve has signaled its wish to push down interest rates by promising to buy $300 billion in Treasury securities.
The day the Fed announced its decision, yields on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year notes fell to 2.53 percent from 3.01 percent, but they have crept back steadily over the last week.
On Wednesday, the 10-year note fell 23/32, to 99 22/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.78 percent, up from 2.70 percent late Tuesday.
This fall, as credit markets froze and stocks swooned, investors sought shelter in short-term and long-term Treasury debt, pushing yields to their lowest point since the Great Depression. Analysts said some investors are moving back into stocks, high-quality corporate bonds and other debt markets that, while less secure than Treasuries, pay a higher return.
''People are starting to say, 'There's better places to put my money,' '' said Thomas Roth, head of government bond trading at Dresdner Kleinworth. ''But that's key to getting things going, to get risk taking going again.''
Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of five-year notes:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader at the New York Stock Exchange, where shares fell midday on news from a notes auction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. (pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%)

COMPANY: DWIGHT ASSET MANAGEMENT CO (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1041 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2246 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
CHINA SCALES BACK
Investment Plans in Africa
As global commodity prices have plummeted, China has backed away from some of its riskiest and most aggressive plans in Africa. Above, an instant-coffee seller pushes his cart past a Chinese restaurant in Conakry, Guinea. PAGE A6
UNEASE OVER INDONESIAN'S RETURN
Tensions arising from clashes between the Indonesian military and independence fighters in the country's resource-rich province of Papua have been stoked by the return from exile of the separatist movement's founder, Nicolas Jouwe. PAGE A10
Holon Journal 
Palestinians Serenade Survivors
A group of young Palestinian musicians from the Jenin refugee camp, once a notorious hotbed of militancy and violence in the West Bank, played for a group of elderly Holocaust survivors in Holon, a suburban town south of Tel Aviv. PAGE A10
VIDEO RAISES TENSIONS IN GEORGIA
Georgian authorities released a video in which a political activist associated with a prominent opposition leader, Nino Burjanadze, says she is prepared to use violence to force Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, from office. PAGE A12
TAINTED-MILK LAWSUIT IN CHINA
A Chinese court agreed to consider a lawsuit by parents of a sick child against a maker of chemically tainted dairy products that killed at least six children and sickened 300,000 more last year. PAGE A12
MORE CONTACTS WITH CHINESE
China is seeking technology and weapons to disrupt the traditional advantages of American forces, and secrecy surrounding its military creates the potential for miscalculation on both sides, according to a Pentagon study. PAGE A12
BOMB KILLS 9 IN AFGHANISTAN
An explosive device killed nine civilians and wounded seven others on a road frequently used by Afghan security forces and international troops in eastern Afghanistan, the police said. PAGE A13
IRAN OFFICIAL DISPARAGES OVERTURE
The speaker of Iran's Parliament criticized the United States in harsher terms than any other leading Iranian figure since President Obama extended his videotaped olive branch to Iran. Page A13
AFRICA COMMAND REFINES ROLE
The Pentagon's new Africa Command is still recovering from early missteps in explaining its mission and purpose. Government investigators say the miscues have left lingering fears at the State Department, in Congress and on the continent that the Defense Department is militarizing the nation's foreign policy in Africa. PAGE A13
National
STUDY LINKS STUDENT OBESITY AND SCHOOL PROXIMITY TO FAST FOOD
Ninth graders in schools that are within a block of a fast-food outlet are more likely to be obese than students in schools that are a quarter of a mile or more away, according to a study of millions of schoolchildren by economists at the University of California and Columbia University. PAGE A14
Fargo, N.D., Battles a Rising River A14
CHARITIES' FINANCES ARE WORSENING
The financial safety net of the nation's nonprofit groups is rapidly fraying, according to a survey of some 900 nonprofit leaders around the country. PAGE A15
GAY UNIONS IN VERMONT FACE VETO
Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont said he would veto a same-sex marriage bill if it reached his desk. PAGE A15
Sacramento Tent City Will Be Moved A15
Obama's First Fund-Raisers in Office A16
Obama Visits Senate to Push Budget A16
VETERANS REACT TO H.I.V. WARNING
Hundreds of veterans streamed into the Miami Veterans Hospital to be tested for H.I.V. and hepatitis after officials there said improperly cleaned equipment might have exposed them to infection. PAGE A17
REPORT FAULTS FOOD FACILITIES
Most food manufacturers and distributors cannot identify the suppliers or recipients of their products despite federal rules that require them to do so, federal health investigators have found. The report comes as President Obama and lawmakers have promised major changes in to the nation's food-safety system. PAGE A17
Pizzeria Sponsors Class's Paper A19
ASTEROID FRAGMENTS ARE FOUND
After tracking an asteroid on a collision course with Earth, and watching it explode in the atmosphere, scientists have now picked up some of the remnants on the ground. Scientists hope that analysis of the meteorites will help them determine the history of asteroids, which contain some of the most primitive materials left over from the early solar system. PAGE A18
Prosecutor Sued in Texting Case A18
Wilderness Bill Clears the House A19
Obituaries
JOHN HOPE FRANKLIN, 94
A prolific scholar of African-American history, Mr. Franklin influenced thinking about slavery and Reconstruction while helping to further the civil rights struggle. PAGE B12
Johnny Blanchard, 76 B13
New York
REPORT FINDS ICE BUILDUP UNLIKELY CAUSE OF PLANE CRASH
Information released by the National Transportation Safety Board cast doubt on a theory that ice buildup was a direct cause of the crash of a commuter plane near Buffalo that killed 50 people last month. Information from the plane's flight data recorder suggests that the pilots' actions were possibly a factor. PAGE A20
16-YEAR-OLD ARRESTED IN KILLING
John Katehis was arrested Tuesday night in the fatal stabbing of a radio journalist, George Weber, who was found in his Brooklyn apartment on Sunday, law enforcement officials said. PAGE A21
Business
DESPITE ANGER AT A.I.G. BONUSES,
Bailed-Out Firms Follow Lead
Executives at more than a dozen financial firms that have received government money stand to collect millions in A.I.G.-style bonuses. In some cases, these could rival the original A.I.G. payments. PAGE B1
JAPAN'S SMALL EXPORTERS SUFFER
Japan announced that its exports had fallen in February for the fifth consecutive month. The bulk of the problems affecting Japan's exporters are at small and midsize companies. PAGE B1
CONTROL OF MADOFF'S LONDON FIRM
A federal judge gave control of Bernard L. Madoff's stake in his Mayfair operation in London to the trustee who is already handling the liquidation of his New York brokerage business. PAGE B1
WEAK BOND MARKET
In an early sign that Washington may have to pay more to finance huge stimulus plans to fix the economy, investors hesitated at buying a government debt issue on Wednesday, forcing the Treasury to pay a higher interest rate than expected. PAGE B1
EUROPEANS VENT ECONOMIC PAIN
Anger is swelling across Europe as the economy worsens and more people lose their jobs. A former British banker's home was vandalized, and French workers barricaded a factory manager in his office. The anger threatens to eclipse the Group of 20 meeting next week in London. PAGE B1
Breakingviews.com B2
SAFETY IN MILITARY CONTRACTS
Many small businesses with contracts with the military say the Pentagon is a recession-proof customer insulating them from the economic downturn. PAGE B4
Basics
In a Browser War, Consumers Win
The browsers are battling again. Microsoft just updated Internet Explorer. Apple, Mozilla and Google have all issued early versions of their coming applications. Farhad Manjoo of The Times puts the browsers to the test and names a winner. PAGE B7
Phone Smart
Decoding a Cellphone Bill
Cellphone bills are notoriously cryptic. This didn't matter too much in past years, because carriers generally charged the same prices. Now it matters. Prepaid calling services are selling slick phones and minutes as cheap as 5 cents. Is that more or less than you pay for monthly service? PAGE B7
Sports
FOR PANTHERS' BLAIR,
It's All in the Hips
The Pittsburgh Panthers' DeJuan Blair, above top, has many assets: hands that grip like suction cups, the energy of a hyperactive toddler and agility to make a tight-rope walker jealous. But his finest quality, coaches say, is his backside. Players use head fakes, ball fakes and elbow fakes to distract a defender or get them off balance. All Blair has to do is swing his hips. It's almost unfair, the Panthers' head coach says. Page B14
HAIRPIN TURNS AND A QUICK RISE
In a motor sport called rally, street-legal hot rods race on closed roads. Tanner Foust has, at 35, taken the skills he honed driving a bus down icy roads in Vail, Colo., on an improbable rise through the sport's ranks. Page B15
Arts
LATE-PERIOD PICASSO,
From a Closer Perspective
Picasso spent his final years along the French Riviera, where he produced images of matadors, twisted couples and haunted women. As John Richardson sees it, he was trying to outwit death. Mr. Richardson, the artist's friend and biographer, is aiding the Gagosian Gallery to prepare ''Picasso: Mosqueteros,'' a collection of the artist's work between 1962 and '72. Page C1
Abroad
A Stage for Le Corbusier
The Modernist architect Le Corbusier has been more influential in Britain than in any other European country. And it stops at influence, as he has never personally designed a building there, though plenty of projects in the Corbu-style have been. A recent show at the Barbican Center in London examines the architect's work. Page C1
Just How Live Is 'Idol'? C1
A STUDY IN THE RIGHT
Plenty of options exist for those who want to study left-wing political movements. But conservatism as a scholarly topic? Not so much. But thanks to an anonymous donor, the University of California, Berkeley, is creating a Center for the Comparative Study of Right Wing Movements. Page C1
LIVENT HEAD CONVICTED OF FRAUD
The Canadian impresario Garth H. Drabinsky, who was the chief of the defunct Broadway production firm Livent, and his business partner Myron I. Gottlieb were convicted of forgery and defrauding shareholders of more than $400 million. Page C2
Music Review
The World of K T Sullivan's Stage
At K T Sullivan's show at the Oak Room in the Algonquin Hotel, a central theme was the old showbiz concept ''The world is a stage,'' Stephen Holden writes. Rather than simply toss away the concept, she brings new life to it, much the same as her talent of conveying discovery and surprise even while singing standards. Page C6
Home
The Fix
Wood Doors That Grow, A Problem or Urban Legend?
You are not imagining things. Wood doors are porous and can contract in dry air and expand in humidity, sometimes to the point that they will not close completely. Arianne Cohen finds some remedies. PAGE D2
On Location
Building Around a Tree
James MacKinnon wanted to add a bedroom to his house in the Hollywood hills. But his wife at the time insisted that the 65-foot sycamore tree in the middle of the backyard would have to stay. Scrap the project? No, just build around it. PAGE D6
Gardening
Slow, Easy, Cheap and Green
Sick of mowing the lawn every week? Try ''slow gardening.'' The tenants of the slow approach are simple. Two examples: take your time (you don't need to plant everything the first day of spring), and follow your instincts instead of set rules (you don't have to prune roses at a certain angle, and if land is scarce, a pickup truck, above, will do). PAGE D1
Garden Q. & A.
Q. Can you suggest a few spring-blooming alternatives to the usual flowering trees? A. PAGE D8
In the Garden
Hands-On History Lessons
Lawrence Griffith, the curator of plants at Colonial Williamsburg, gives Anne Raver of The Times pointers on growing flowers the way they did in the colonies. PAGE D9
Styles
TWO MINUTES LEFT AND DOWN BY 10, SOMEONE BETTER MAKE A COFFEE RUN
Why bother with steroids when you can drink a can of soda? Caffeine is one of the best studied performance enhancers. It is also one of few not banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency. PAGE E1
THE FIRST COUPLE, UP CLOSE
During the Bush years, Washington grew accustomed to a homebody president. Now, the city must adjust to the Obamas. The president and his wife are popping up all over the city. And their social schedule is also a powerful political tool. PAGE E1
Wife/Mother/Worker/Spy E2
Dress Codes: 'West Side Story' Style E4
HEAD INJURIES IN SPORTS
Prodded by the death of the 45-year-old actress Natasha Richardson from a epidural hematoma, medical and sports officials are taking a hard look at how to avoid head injuries in sports, and what to do once they happen. PAGE E8
Editorial
GRAND BARGAIN
Every world leader knows that beggar-thy-neighbor strategies are likely to make the global emergency worse. Still, protectionism thrives in economic crises, as people seek scapegoats abroad for their troubles. The world needs a bargain that commits us all to seek collective solutions. Page A26
NO TIME FOR BUDGETARY GAMES
The education stimulus package passed by Congress last month could revive the national school-reform effort. That is a tall order, but the opportunity is there -- an opportunity that could slip away if the states are not required to hold up their end of the bargain. Page A26
A WORTHY LEGAL ADVISER
President Obama's nominee to lead the Office of Legal Counsel is being attacked by Republican senators who still prefer the Bush approach. The nominee is superbly qualified and the Senate should confirm her without further delay. Page A26
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS
There appears to be only two constants in our ever-changing world. One is that Barack Obama is going to be on television every day forever. No venue is too strange. The other immutable truth is that we always need to have somebody we can be really, really angry at. Page A27
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Ever wonder how financial experts could lead the world over the economic cliff? One explanation is that so-called experts turn out to be, in many situations, a stunningly poor source of expertise. Page A27
ISLAND OF INSTABILITY
Madagascar has a new president after months of protests and violence, but uncertainty still rules the streets of Antananarivo, writes Johary Ravaloson, a lawyer and novelist, in an Op-Ed article. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
 A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FAST FOOD (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); FOOD LIABILITY LITIGATION (71%); LITIGATION (71%); HOLOCAUST (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (66%); OBESITY (64%); CHARITIES (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (55%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (55%); REFUGEES (55%); SUBURBS (54%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (52%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (50%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFRICA (96%); INDONESIA (94%); CHINA (94%); GUINEA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GEORGIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1042 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Small Exporters Are Hit Hardest

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
SAITAMA, Japan -- Most people who own an iPhone, a Prius or a Nintendo Wii have never heard of Porite, but this small company outside Tokyo makes a crucial part of their toys' vital organs.
Despite the ubiquity of the tiny copper bearings Porite churns out by the millions each day, orders all but dried up in September. Now shipments are down about 40 percent from last year, as consumers in the United States and elsewhere rein in spending on sophisticated electronics.
With little to do, the company's 400 employees spend their days sweeping and cleaning, and about a dozen contract workers have been let go.
The finance ministry announced Wednesday that exports from Japan, the world's second-largest economy, fell by a record 49 percent in February compared with a year earlier. It was the fifth consecutive month that exports have fallen. Shipments to the United States fell 58 percent. Japan's trade surplus was down 91 percent, to 82.4 billion yen, or about $840 million. 
Although the Japanese brands known worldwide have received more attention in the news, the bulk of the problems affecting Japan's exporters are not at Toyota or Sony, both of which predict deep losses this year, but at small and midsize companies like Porite.
In a shift often overlooked even inside Japan, these virtual unknowns now account for about 75 percent of Japan's manufacturing output and employ almost 90 percent of the sector's workers.
In part because of the export slump, the nation's economy was 12.1 percent smaller in the last three months of 2008 than in the period a year earlier, putting Japan on course for its deepest, longest decline since World War II.
''Japan has taken a disproportionate hit in the economic downturn,'' says Yasuo Yamamoto, senior economist at the consulting firm Mizuho Research Institute. ''Japan's exports are concentrated in the very sectors that have been hit the most in the economic crisis, like cars and electronics.''
Porite is an example of an increasingly important group of Japanese exporters that have found a niche in making the advanced inputs -- like tiny bearings and micron-thin films and wafers -- that make other companies' products tick.
Streamlined and focused, they bear little resemblance to the conglomerates that have long dominated Japanese industry.
''Because these companies aren't household names, their emergence has been easy to overlook,'' says Ulrike Schaede, a professor at the University of California, San Diego.
In fact, division of labor is developing on a large scale in Asia. Take the laptop, for example: Japan exports advanced materials and machinery tools to Taiwan and South Korea, which make microchips and other intermediate products to export to China, which puts together laptops to ship to the United States.
Similarly, almost 75 percent of the parts that make up semiconductors are made in Japan, though the semiconductors themselves may be manufactured elsewhere, according to estimates by Japan's trade ministry.
But that has made Japan's export industries especially vulnerable to the global downturn. On top of a fall in direct exports to the United States, Japan is exporting less to other Asian manufacturing centers like China, Taiwan and South Korea, as companies there scale back production.
Moreover, exports have been growing in importance for Japan. Overseas shipments have surged in recent years, fueled by a huge appetite for Japanese cars and gadgets among consumers in the United States and elsewhere, while the domestic economy has stagnated.
Last year, exports made up 15.9 percent of Japan's gross domestic product, up from 9.8 percent a decade ago.
Even small companies like Porite rode the wave of globalization, opening factories in Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand -- and, in 2002, Jefferson City, Mo. Now, more than 70 percent of Porite's sales come from outside Japan.
Economists predict Japanese manufacturing will remain sluggish for some time. Sentiment in Japan's small and midsize industries is at its worst in almost 20 years. Trouble at many of Japan's regional banks, the lifeline for many smaller companies, has raised concerns of an impending credit crisis.
Over all, industrial production fell 10.2 percent in January from a month earlier, the biggest fall on record, and is expected to have declined sharply in February.
''Companies are cutting back production at an incredible pace to reduce inventories, and that's being reflected in the export figures,'' said Hiroshi Shiraishi, a Tokyo-based economist for the bank BNP Paribas. ''We may see exports come back a little once inventories are brought down,'' he said, ''but a full recovery is further down the road.''
Still, small manufacturers that do survive the current downturn will bounce back more quickly than many larger exporters, said Ms. Schaede of the University of California, because they are such dominant players in their fields. ''They are extremely focused, and they will be in a very strong position once we see economic recovery,'' she said.
But many fear a ''hollowing out'' of Japanese technological expertise by then as companies fail.
''The small- and medium-sized enterprise sector is an immense resource. It's Japan's beating industrial heart,'' said Damian Thong, Tokyo-based analyst for the brokerage firm Macquarie Securities. ''When you start getting more moving overseas, or go out of business, the concern is that you can't get it back. Once that happens, Japan's industrial base breaks down.''
Tatsunosuke Kikuchi, father of Porite's president, Masanori Kikuchi, founded Porite in 1952. His first break came when he landed orders from Hitachi to make bearings for Japan's first domestically produced electric fan. Since then, it has been a race to develop the smallest, sturdiest bearings for ever-smaller gadgets.
Porite takes copper powder and molds parts to exact specifications, allowing electronics and auto companies to develop smaller, more complex motors. The company estimates it holds about a 70 percent global share in bearings for consumer electronics like the iPhone, as well as a 20 percent share in bearings used in auto motors.
''Every time we get an order for smaller, more complex specifications, I think it's impossible at first,'' Masanori Kikuchi said. ''Now, we're talking two-thousandths of a millimeter. And we're going to go even smaller.''
Japan is desperate to save companies like Porite. The government has put aside 20 trillion yen, about $200 billion, to back bank loans to small and midsize companies to bolster lending and avert a credit crisis. It has also introduced measures to subsidize smaller companies to keep idled workers on their payrolls.
''Small and medium companies have been the most vulnerable in the bad economy,'' says Fumio Sato, a trade ministry official in charge of an emergency help line for struggling small and midsize companies. He says calls to the line have surged since January.
''In Japan, even the fate of small companies reflects the world economy,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Koki Kikuchi, left, and Masanori Kikuchi have little to keep them busy at a factory in Saitama, Japan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Masanori Kikuchi, left, with workers in a plant that makes and exports tiny parts for electronics. Demand has fallen sharply.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) CHART: Feeling the Pinch: Japan's export-oriented manufacturers have been hurt by the sharp cutback in orders from around the globe.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details bar graph.(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); SHIPMENTS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1043 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Tent Cities Arise and Spread in Recession's Grip

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
FRESNO, Calif. -- As the operations manager of an outreach center for the homeless here, Paul Stack is used to seeing people down on their luck. What he had never seen before was people living in tents and lean-tos on the railroad lot across from the center.
''They just popped up about 18 months ago,'' Mr. Stack said. ''One day it was empty. The next day, there were people living there.''
Like a dozen or so other cities across the nation, Fresno is dealing with an unhappy deja vu: the arrival of modern-day Hoovervilles, illegal encampments of homeless people that are reminiscent, on a far smaller scale, of Depression-era shantytowns. At his news conference on Tuesday night, President Obama was asked directly about the tent cities and responded by saying that it was ''not acceptable for children and families to be without a roof over their heads in a country as wealthy as ours.'' 
While encampments and street living have always been a part of the landscape in big cities like Los Angeles and New York, these new tent cities have taken root -- or grown from smaller enclaves of the homeless as more people lose jobs and housing -- in such disparate places as Nashville, Olympia, Wash., and St. Petersburg, Fla.
In Seattle, homeless residents in the city's 100-person encampment call it Nickelsville, an unflattering reference to the mayor, Greg Nickels. A tent city in Sacramento prompted Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to announce a plan Wednesday to shift the entire 125-person encampment to a nearby fairground. That came after a recent visit by ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' set off such a news media stampede that some fed-up homeless people complained of overexposure and said they just wanted to be left alone.
The problem in Fresno is different in that it is both chronic and largely outside the national limelight. Homelessness here has long been fed by the ups and downs in seasonal and subsistence jobs in agriculture, but now the recession has cast a wider net and drawn in hundreds of the newly homeless -- from hitchhikers to truck drivers to electricians.
''These are able-bodied folks that did day labor, at minimum wage or better, who were previously able to house themselves based on their income,'' said Michael Stoops, the executive director of the National Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy group based in Washington.
The surging number of homeless people in Fresno, a city of 500,000 people, has been a surprise. City officials say they have three major encampments near downtown and smaller settlements along two highways. All told, as many 2,000 people are homeless here, according to Gregory Barfield, the city's homeless prevention and policy manager, who said that drug use, prostitution and violence were all too common in the encampments.
''That's all part of that underground economy,'' Mr. Barfield said. ''It's what happens when a person is trying to survive.''
He said the city planned to begin ''triage'' on the encampments in the next several weeks, to determine how many people needed services and permanent housing. ''We're treating it like any other disaster area,'' Mr. Barfield said.
Mr. Barfield took over his newly created position in January, after the county and city adopted a 10-year plan to address homelessness. A class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of homeless people against the city and the California Department of Transportation led to a $2.35 million settlement in 2008, making money available to about 350 residents who had had their belongings discarded in sweeps by the city.
The growing encampments led the city to place portable toilets and security guards near one area known as New Jack City, named after a dark and drug-filled 1991 movie. But that just attracted more homeless people.
''It was just kind of an invitation to move in,'' said Mr. Stack, the outreach center manager.
On a recent afternoon, nobody seemed thrilled to be living in New Jack City, a filthy collection of rain- and wind-battered tents in a garbage-strewn lot. Several weary-looking residents sat on decaying sofas as a pair of pit bulls chained to a fence howled.
Northwest of New Jack City sits a somewhat less grim encampment. It is sometimes called Taco Flats or Little Tijuana because of the large number of Latino residents, many of whom were drawn to Fresno on the promise of agricultural jobs, which have dried up in the face of the poor economy and a three-year drought.
Guillermo Flores, 32, said he had looked for work in the fields and in fast food, but had found nothing. For the last eight months, he has collected cans, recycling them for $5 to $10 a day, and lived in a hand-built, three-room shack, a home that he takes pride in, with a door, clean sheets on his bed and a bowl full of fresh apples in his propane-powered kitchen area.
''I just built it because I need it,'' said Mr. Flores, as he cooked a dinner of chili peppers, eggs and onions over a fire. ''The only problem I have is the spiders.''
Dozens of homeless men and women here have found more organized shelter at the Village of Hope, a collection of 8-by-10-foot storage sheds built by the nonprofit group Poverello House and overseen by Mr. Stack. Planted in a former junkyard behind a chain-link fence, each unit contains two cots, sleeping bags and a solar-powered light.
Doug Brown, a freelance electrical engineer, said he had discovered the Village of Hope while unemployed a few years back and had returned after losing his job in October. Mr. Stoops, of the homeless coalition, predicted that the population at such new Hoovervilles could grow as those without places to live slowly burned through their options and joined the ranks of the chronically homeless, many of whom are indigent as a result of illiteracy, alcoholism, mental illness and drug abuse.
That mix is already evident in a walk around Taco Flats, where Sean Langer, 42, who lost a trucking job in December and could pass for a soccer dad, lives in his car in front of a sturdy shanty that is home to Barbara Smith, 41, a crack addict with a wild cackle for a laugh.
''This is a one-bedroom house,'' said Ms. Smith, proudly taking a visitor through her home built with scrap wood and scavenged two-by-fours. ''We got a roof, and it does not leak.''
During the day, the camp can seem peaceful. American flags fly over some shanties, and neighbors greet one another. Some feed pets, while others build fires and chat.
Daniel Kent, a clean-shaven 27-year-old from Oregon, has been living in Taco Flats for three months after running out of money on a planned hitchhiking trip to Florida. He did manage to earn $35 a day holding up a going-out-of-business sign for Mervyn's until the department store actually went of out business.
Mr. Kent planned to attend a job fair soon, but said he did not completely mind living outdoors.
''We got veterans out here; we got people with heart, proud to be who they are,'' Mr. Kent said. ''Regardless of living situations, it doesn't change the heart. There's some good people out here, really good people.''
But the danger after dark is real. Ms. Smith, who lost an eye after being shot in the face years ago, said she had seen two people killed in New Jack City, prompting her to move to Taco Flats and try to quit drugs. Her companion, Willie Mac, 53, a self-described youth minister, said he was ''waiting on her to get herself right with the Lord.''
Ms. Smith said her dream was simple: ''To get out of here, get off the street, have our own home.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said Wednesday that a homeless encampment in Sacramento would be moved.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
An encampment of homeless people under an overpass in a rail yard in Fresno, Calif., has acquired the nickname New Jack City, after the 1991 film.
Guillermo Flores, 32, in his makeshift kitchen, one of three rooms in a shack he built. He has lived there for eight months.
Dozens of homeless men and women in Fresno find shelter at the Village of Hope, a collection of storage sheds with cots.
 Doug Brown, a freelance electrical engineer, has been living at the Village of Hope since losing his job in October. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); FAMILY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (65%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); OPRAH WINFREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (96%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1044 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Guinea's capital, Conakry, is littered with tokens of the country's friendship with China. What's missing is what Guinea desperately needs: a multibillion-dollar deal to build infrastructure in exchange for access to reserves of bauxite and iron ore. 
nytimes.com/world
SLIDESHOW: AN ARCHITECT'S INFLUENCE
Photos of the Barbican Center in London, at left, and the exhibition dedicated to the Modernist architect Le Corbusier that is on display there. The Barbican complex itself is an example of the Corbusian-inspired urban developments across Europe. Also, previous columns in Michael Kimmelman's Abroad series.
nytimes.com/design
SLIDESHOW: RISE IN SHANTY TOWNS
California's new Hoovervilles: Inside the tent cities that have sprung up in Sacramento and Fresno.
nytimes.com/national
INTERACTIVE: RAISING A GLASS
To Old Times
A panorama inside the commander's room in the 69th Regiment Armory in Manhattan, where history provides the backdrop for the officers' toast on St. Patrick's Day.
nytimes.com/nyregion
VIDEO: NEW YORK COMMUTES
About to Get Tougher
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority approved higher subway and bus fares, more tolls on the authority's bridges and tunnels, and deep cuts in service.
nytimes.com/nyregion
AUDIO: TECH TALK
This week: A look back at the Melissa virus that changed computing a decade ago; John Markoff on the looming threat of the Conficker worm; the tech term ''clickjacking''; and streaming on-demand games.
nytimes.com/personaltech
AUDIO: TODAY'S BUSINESS
Jeff Sommer and Liz Alderman on signs of weakness in the global bond market.
nytimes.com/business
Patient Voices Spinal Cord Injury
Life after a spinal cord injury is filled with the challenge of accepting your injury, coping with your limitations and adjusting to an entirely new way of seeing the world. Here, six men and women talk about their lives after such an injury.
nytimes.com/health
AUDIO: PICASSO'S TWILIGHT
Through a Friend's Eyes
John Richardson, Picasso's friend and biographer, discusses several of the works in the exhibition ''Mosqueteros'' at the Gagosian Gallery.
nytimes.com/design
SLIDESHOW: THE POWER OF LIGHT
The event designer David Beahm, who believes that lighting can transform not only a space but also a mood, shops for candles and accessories for the home.
nytimes.com/home
SLIDESHOW: A CONVERSATION PIECE
Sixty-Five Feet Tall
To add an additional bedroom to their house in the Hollywood Hills, a couple designed around a 65-foot sycamore tree.
nytimes.com/home
AUDIO: 'WEST SIDE STORY' STYLE
An audio slide show about how the clothes from the 1961 film are relevant and can work today for three reasons: use of solid color, slim and tailored fit, and details. These are all positive elements for a man who wants a sense of style but knows it's a recession.
nytimes.com/style

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Guinea's Bigger Needs: Guinea's capital, Conakry, is littered with tokens of the country's friendship with China. What's missing is what Guinea desperately needs: a multibillion-dollar deal to build infrastructure in exchange for access to reserves of bauxite and iron ore. nytimes.com/world (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER ASSELIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); BONDS (69%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (68%); WRITERS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (63%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) GUINEA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1045 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Where's The Plan, Wall Street?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
FOR the last several months, Americans have looked to Washington to lead them. But where's the leadership on Wall Street?
There is an enormous opportunity for a C.E.O. to come forward with a plan to reform the financial system and pledge a change from business as usual. Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, has been the most outspoken of his peers during the crisis -- and has done an admirable job addressing the issues -- but he has been more focused on helping instill confidence in the economy and the health of his own firm. John Mack, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, has shown glimpses of public leadership, at one point apologizing for the crisis by saying, ''We are sorry for it.''
But the public could particularly benefit today from a forceful voice of reason and change within the industry, proposing how to remake the world of finance in a sensible way, driven not by populism but by practicality and a sense of fairness. 
It's worth noting that most Wall Street C.E.O.'s are being advised by their legal and public relations teams to keep their heads down or risk provoking more public outrage. But there is the flip side to that coin: reasoned leadership may generate a reasonable response, helping the industry pre-empt what it fears most -- additional government regulation.
So in that spirit, here's a five-point plan to refashion Wall Street. A plan that would be best sold by Wall Street itself.
GLASS-STEAGALL 2.0 It may seem like a bitter pill to swallow, but a Wall Street C.E.O. should be taking part in the discussions about whether to restore the Glass-Steagall Act, which, until its repeal a decade ago, imposed a wall between commercial banks and investment banks. It's an idea that Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who leads President Obama's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, raised last week at New York University.
''Maybe we ought to have a kind of two-tier financial system,'' he suggested, according to Bloomberg News. ''What used to be the traditional investment banks, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, so forth, which used to do some underwriting and mergers and acquisitions, are dominated by other activities we would exclude -- very heavy proprietary trading, hedge funds.''
Bringing back Glass-Steagall may not be the most popular idea in financial circles, but the debate is already under way. Agreeing to some limits on the kinds of activities that banks and other businesses participate in could go a long way toward ensuring that no institution is too big -- or too interconnected -- to fail.
Traditional banks don't need to be barred from underwriting and trading, but when people talk about how A.I.G. ran an in-house casino, it's not the wrong analogy -- for the insurer and, frankly, for many banks. And casino losses can clearly infect the rest of a business. Either there needs to be a massive firewall erected to contain the potential damage, or some institutions may need to rethink the businesses they are in.
A COUNTERCYCLICAL APPROACH All banks are required to maintain a certain capital ratio during good times and bad. But we've never made a distinction between the two environments. Sheila Bair, chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., raised the issue, as have others, of adjusting those capital requirements depending on the cycle. At a Congressional hearing last week, she suggested that ''financial institutions could be required to limit dividends in profitable times to build capital above regulatory minimums'' against future losses.
That would have helped troubled institutions ride out the downturn without taxpayer help, she said. Such a standard wouldn't be popular with banks' shareholders, who could see their dividends capped, but it would be a hit with taxpayers -- who are shareholders, too, at least for now.
MENDING MARK-TO-MARKET A number of financial executives, led by Stephen A. Schwarzman of Blackstone Group, have been pressing for the removal of mark-to-market accounting standards, which they say amplify potential losses and destabilize the system. As an accounting standard, mark-to-market has strengths and weaknesses. It creates an enormous amount of transparency by forcing institutions to mark their assets' value to whatever they are worth on the open market, rather than to their cost, or to what an in-house model says, which some deride as ''mark-to-make-believe.''
Where the system falls short is when there's no market at all, like now.
Banks have been forced to take huge ''theoretical'' write-downs because of mark-to-market, but to maintain their capital base they have had to raise real money. There has to be a middle ground, and it probably revolves around disclosure.
Perhaps capital requirements could be eased -- as part of a countercyclical capital standards program -- so that markdowns don't send a firm into a tailspin. In exchange, though, financial institutions would show shareholders, on a granular level, the marked-down assets and how they are valued. Many banks are holding on to their assets because they believe they're worth more than the market will bear. If that's true, they should open up their kimono and show everybody -- maybe the market will agree with them.
CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS One of the most important markets that may have to be reformed is the market for credit default swaps -- those insurance plans that investors can buy to protect themselves from an institution's defaulting. There's good reason for the insurance to exist: If you are a client of a firm or own its debt, swaps are a smart way to make sure you are left with something if the firm collapses. But investors are allowed to buy swap protection even if they have no exposure to the firm. That means they are not buying the insurance to protect themselves, but rather as a speculative bet. In this case, it's the equivalent of buying insurance on someone else's house.
And that's a problem. It creates an incentive to burn that person's house down, or even whisper that it is practically a tinderbox. We have seen how quickly the erosion in confidence in a bank can turn fatal. So there needs to be a requirement that investors who buys credit default swaps have provable exposure to the underlying security that they are insuring, in the same way that you'd have to prove that you own a home before buying insurance for it.
George Soros, the prominent financier, has been an advocate for fixing this market. ''The sheer existence of an unregulated market of this size has been a major factor in increasing risk throughout the entire financial system,'' he told a House committee in November.
COMPENSATION Wall Street's pay structure has become the biggest occasion for national ridicule, and rage, and understandably so. There's a built-in imbalance. In good years, top employees share in huge riches. In truly dreadful years, like last year, there are still bonuses across the firm -- just smaller ones.
There are going to have to be changes, starting with the bonus numbers being a lot smaller, even in good times. Wall Street chiefs need to recognize this new reality and step forward with their own set of solutions.
One fix, which some firms have already begun to explore, would expand the time frame for evaluating bonuses from one year to several years.
If employees knew that their pay depended on profits that were sustainable, not the kind that could blow up 12 months down the road, they would have greater motivation to weigh the risks along with the rewards.
Since few firms lose money for years in a row -- and if they do, they should be asking serious questions about who's in charge -- this wider window could cut down on the awkward situation in which a firm awards bonuses for a period when it didn't make a profit.
And it could help soothe seething shareholders -- and taxpayers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TESTIFY: Wall Street on Capitol Hill in February. From left, Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, Robert Kelly of Bank of New York Mellon, Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America, Ronald E. Logue of State Street, John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley, Vikram S. Pandit of Citigroup and John G. Stumpf of Wells Fargo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.F9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BILL MAYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (75%); BANKING LAW (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: ROBERT P KELLY (79%); JOHN J MACK (78%); JOHN G STUMPF (77%); JAMES DIMON (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); VIKRAM PANDIT (57%); KENNETH D LEWIS (57%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (57%); RONALD E LOGUE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1046 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Goldman's Hurdle To a Stock Sale

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
Executives at Goldman Sachs made it clear that they wanted to give back the government aid the firm had received. A bill winding its way through Congress that would impose a 90 percent tax on bonuses for banks that receive government assistance reinforces that desire.
So let's assume that regulators give Goldman the go-ahead. The question would be, would the firm want to replenish some of the money by selling new stock to the public? 
But Goldman still needs to reckon with Warren Buffett.
Berkshire Hathaway, led by Mr. Buffett, injected $5 billion into Goldman last September in return for preferred shares. That, combined with a common stock offering, helped bolster Goldman's capital in the wake of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. But Mr. Buffett's involvement came with a condition that could qualify him for some kind of compensation.
That sounds ominously similar to the so-called ratchets granted to the big pension funds and sovereign wealth funds that invested in Merrill Lynch and Washington Mutual during the credit crisis. A ratchet is a feature that allows those investors' stakes to be recalculated should the company raise more capital at a lower price. Investors like the protection it offers, but it's often bad news for the recipient and its shareholders.
The rights Washington Mutual gave to the private equity firm T.P.G. arguably scared off other potential investors before the bank folded and was handed to JPMorgan Chase by regulators. Merrill Lynch, meanwhile, had to dole out almost a third of the $8.5 billion it raised last summer to cover a ratchet that Temasek Holdings of Singapore had previously negotiated.
The deal Goldman struck with the Oracle of Omaha is nowhere near as onerous. Unlike others, Goldman's miniratchet isn't linked to the price Berkshire negotiated for its preferred stock and warrants. Instead, it requires two triggers. First, Goldman would have to sell new shares at a discount of 5 percent or more to the stock price at the time. That's certainly possible -- it offered an 8 percent discount last September when it sold its stock during one of the most volatile weeks of the year. The average secondary share sale dangled at a little less than a 5 percent discount in 2008 and just breached that so far this year, according to the research firm Dealogic.
Second, the discount only applies if Goldman sells stock to a small group of select investors. A broader sale -- like a rights offering to its shareholders -- wouldn't set off the ratchet.
That gives Goldman a good deal of leeway. It's not as clean as Morgan Stanley's ratchet-free $9 billion investment from Mitsubishi UFJ of Japan. But in this market, the fewer shackles the better.
A Housing Rebound
Upticks in new and existing home sales in February suggest the housing market may be hitting bottom. Prices are close to their long-term averages in terms of multiple of buyers' earnings, and may decline only modestly. That's good news for banks' asset portfolios -- and the global economy.
After three years of relentless declines, demand for housing appears to be rising toward supply. As the sharp rise in mortgage refinancing demonstrates, that's partly an effect of historically low mortgage rates for prime credits eligible for a Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac guarantee.
Nevertheless, the first stirrings of increased home sales should be the beginning of a stronger overall trend. Only a surge in new building by housing companies wishing to convert vacant land into income could delay the revival. That's why a jump in February housing starts, up 22 percent from January, was somewhat disquieting.
True, prices may continue to decline for some months, if only because there's still so much inventory. Given the gigantic budget deficit, interest rates might rise from their current very low levels, which would reduce housing affordability and depress prices further. But if the latest government stimulus brings a stable economy and just a modest revival of inflation, that would increase incomes and housing affordability.
Rising home sales combined with slowing price declines will put a floor under the value of the financial system's housing-related assets. That would be excellent news if it put the banking system in better health to proffer credit.
At that point, it will be possible to unwind the current government subsidies to housing and the housing finance market without short-term adverse economic effects. Moves like closing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limiting the tax deduction for mortgage interest would become feasible.
These would help reduce the long-term budget deficit while restoring housing financing to a sound, free-market foundation and deter any future housing bubbles. ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Goldman Sachs would need to deal with Warren Buffett before selling any stock.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); REAL ESTATE (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (60%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (60%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011



1047 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Increase in Factory Orders

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
In a glimmer of surprisingly upbeat economic data, manufacturing orders for goods like metals, machines and military equipment rose last month for the first time after six months of declines, the government reported on Wednesday.
 The Commerce Department reported that orders for durable goods rose 3.4 percent in February after a downwardly revised 7.3 percent decline in January. Orders for machinery, transportation equipment and computers and electronics rose. 
 The monthly gain was better than economists' expectations of a 2.5 percent decline, and represented the latest in a series of less-than-terrible reports that have offered a break from months of relentlessly bad economic news. 
 On Monday, an industry group reported that sales of previously owned homes rose 5 percent in February, and the government reported on Tuesday that its barometer of home prices rose in January after 10 months of declines. Earlier this month, the government reported that consumer prices were stabilizing slightly, cooling fears of deflation, and that retail sales in February had fallen by less than expectations.
 The recent spate of reports -- along with more optimistic profit outlooks from the country's biggest banks -- has kindled hopes in some investors that the economy might be reaching a bottom. Although the recession is still spreading, hopeful investors have lifted stock markets some 20 percent over the last two weeks.
 ''You don't want to make a trend out of any one month,'' said Adam York, an economist at Wachovia Economics. ''But we'll take the good news where we can get it, and here and there we're seeing some smatterings of less-bad economic data.''
 But details of the data on durable goods gave economists some pause, and Mr. York said the positive headline number was misleading.
 The bounce in durable-goods orders followed large downward revisions to January data, and was compared with extremely depressed levels. And even with the 3.4 percent gain in February, orders for durable goods were down 28.4 percent from a year earlier, the government said.
 Economists said that forward-looking indexes of manufacturing activity were suggesting more months of declines as businesses cut jobs and capital spending to survive the broad global downturn.
 ''The underlying state of industry is still deteriorating,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a note.
 Excluding the military, new orders increased 1.7 percent last month.
 Still, some economists say that depressed industrial activity will probably pick up later this year and into 2010 as projects from the government's $787 billion stimulus package hit the ground.
 ''The February report on durable goods demand is the latest in a recent series of data releases which suggest that the recession-battered U.S. economy may be close to, or at, a business cycle bottom,'' Cliff Waldman, economist for the Manufacturers Alliance, wrote in a note.
 In another report, the government said that new single-family home sales rose 4.7 percent in February, but that it was still the second-worst month on record, and was down more than 40 percent from February a year ago. The median price of a new home fell to $200,900, down from a peak of $262,600 in March 2006.
 Home builders have cut back significantly on new residential developments as they struggle with lower demand for housing, tighter credit and a flood of cheap foreclosure properties.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan Jarrup, right, a salesman in Garner, N.C., showed a range to a customer on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar and line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); RECESSION (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); DEFLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1048 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Financial Safety Net of Nonprofit Organizations Is Fraying, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The financial health of the nation's nonprofit groups is rapidly deteriorating, according to a survey of some 900 nonprofit leaders around the country.
 Only 12 percent of those organizations expect to end the year with an operating surplus, compared with 40 percent who ended their most recent fiscal years with money on hand, according to the survey by the Nonprofit Finance Fund, a charity that provides loans and other financial services to nonprofit groups.
 Almost a third said they did not have enough cash on hand to cover more than one month's expenses, while roughly another third said they only had enough money to get them through the next three months. 
 ''It's very clear how fragile financially many of these organizations are, and especially the ones on the front lines, the safety net or lifeline organizations,'' said Clara Miller, chief executive of the fund.
 More than half the respondents said they would like help communicating their financial difficulties to their boards and donors, highlighting the growing belief in the nonprofit world that government and the public do not understand the role it plays in American society.
 ''We don't tell our financial story well,'' Ms. Miller said. 
 The survey echoes other recent reports on the woes of the nonprofit sector, and Ms. Miller said she hoped to use the data to argue for new operating principles and practices for nonprofit groups that would enable them to secure a better financial footing.
 Carrie Karasaw is executive director of Libertae Inc., based in Bensalem, Pa., which offers housing and other services for women with mental health and substance abuse issues and their children. Ms. Karasaw said Libertae was financially sound ''for the moment,'' thanks to money still due from state sources and two unusual, large gifts from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and GlaxoSmithKline. 
 ''It's not a new story that nonprofits like us are struggling,'' Ms. Karasaw said. ''It's that we're just hitting a critical mass of financial problems now.''
 Libertae, which has a $2 million budget, has no reserves, she said, and demand for its services is climbing fast.
 ''Our women used to make $8.75 an hour, but now that jobs are tighter, they're finding their wages have dropped about $1, to $7.75, give or take,'' Ms. Karasaw said. ''There is no affordable housing to speak of, never mind affordable child care. Where else can they turn?''
 Patrick Heron, chief executive of Catholic Social Services of Wayne Country, Mich., which serves Detroit, said demand for his organization's services was up 15 percent to 20 percent, including pleas for help from people who were former donors.
 ''In many cases, their homes are being foreclosed, and that's not something we can help them with,'' Mr. Heron said. ''People aren't always happy to hear that.'' 
 In the year ending June 30, Catholic Social Services will receive about $750,000 from the local United Way. The previous year, it received $1.2 million. The organization has laid off employees, reduced services and is trying to sell one of its branch offices to offset losses in revenue from other sources. It is also discussing sharing back office operations with other nonprofit groups.
 While many nonprofit groups have reported having a hard time getting lines of credit from banks, only one quarter of the survey respondents reported that the recession had made it more difficult to get such financing.
 ''We were surprised by that, too,'' Ms. Miller said. ''The responses to that question don't line up with what we're seeing in the field, even though the remainder of the findings do.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a survey that indicated a rapid deterioration in the financial health of the nation's nonprofit groups misstated the name of the executive director of Libertae Inc., which offers housing and other services for women with mental health and substance abuse issues and their children. She is Connie Karasow, not Carrie Karasaw.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (64%); CHILD CARE (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (53%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (53%); GSK (LSE) (53%); BIOC (EGX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (75%) MICHIGAN, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1049 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Raise Doubts On Digital Health Data

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Now that the federal government plans to spend $19 billion to spur the use of computerized patient records, the challenge of adopting the technology widely and wisely is becoming increasingly apparent.
 Two articles, to be published on Thursday in the New England Journal of Medicine, point to the formidable obstacles to achieving the policy goal of not only installing electronic health records, but also using them to improve care and curb costs.
 One article reports that only 9 percent of the nation's hospitals have electronic health records, based on a survey of nearly 3,000 hospitals. The study, financed by the federal government and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, is the most definitive measure to date of the use of computerized patient records by hospitals. The government-backed study found a far lower level of use than some earlier, less rigorous surveys. 
 The study, the authors said, measured only the adoption of digital patient records. The survey did not ask whether the electronic records were used to advance the health policy goals of the federal plan, like tracking the quality of care and communicating effectively with outside specialists and clinics to coordinate a patient's care.
 ''We have a long way to go,'' said Dr. Ashish K. Jha, an assistant professor at the Harvard School of Public Health who was the article's lead author. ''And we did not measure effective use. Even if a hospital does have electronic health records, it does not mean it is sharing information with other hospitals and doctors down the road.''
 In a second article in the journal, two experts in health information technology at Children's Hospital Boston assert that spending billions of dollars of federal funds to stimulate the adoption of existing forms of health record software would be a costly policy mistake. 
 In the article, identified as a ''perspective,'' Dr. Kenneth D. Mandl and Dr. Isaac S. Kohane portray the current health record suppliers as offering pre-Internet era software -- costly and wedded to proprietary technology standards that make it difficult for customers to switch vendors and for outside programmers to make upgrades and improvements.
 Instead of stimulating use of such software, they say, the government should be a rule-setting referee to encourage the development of an open software platform on which innovators could write electronic health record applications. As analogies, they point to other such software platforms -- whether the Web or Apple's iPhone software, which the company has opened to outside developers.
 In the Mandl-Kohane model, a software developer with a new idea for health record features like drug allergy alerts or care guidelines could write an application, and those could be added or substituted for a similar feature.
 Such an approach, they say, would open the door to competition, flexibility and lower costs -- and thus, better health care in the long run. ''If the government's money goes to cement the current technology in place,'' Dr. Mandl said in an interview, ''we will have a very hard time innovating in health care reform.'' 
 To justify spending taxpayers' money, the government program must expand digital records beyond routine tasks like billing to focus on ''how the technology will be used to improve clinical performance,'' said Herbert S. Lin, a senior scientist the National Academy of Sciences, an advisory group to the government.
 The Obama administration's health technology plan, which is part of the economic recovery package, includes incentive payments for adopting electronic health records -- more than $40,000 per physician and up to several million dollars for hospitals. The payments are spread over a few years and are based on ''meaningful use'' of ''certified'' records, although Congress left defining those terms to the Department of Health and Human Services.
 The incentive payments, industry experts say, are enough to greatly accelerate the adoption of electronic health records. In the new survey of hospitals, the cost of digital record systems was cited as the single largest obstacle to adoption.
 Dr. David Blumenthal, a professor at the Harvard Medical School, oversaw the hospital study. Last week he was named the national coordinator for health information technology in the Obama administration. In a conference call to discuss the study, Dr. Blumenthal declined to talk about his plans in detail.
 But clearly, he sees electronic health records as a tool to reform health care, and the Obama administration intends to shift Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement toward paying for better health outcomes, which will be measured and monitored using technology.
 ''The goals are quality and efficiency, instead of just putting machinery in offices,'' Dr. Blumenthal said. ''If we encourage better performance, then physicians are going to find ways to improve performance. And health information technology is one crucial way to do that.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (95%); MEDICAL RECORDS (93%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); WRITERS (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (67%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); ALLERGIES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1050 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 542 words

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
ROSES FLOURISH 
 As Economy Falls
 A rose is a rose -- except in an economic tsunami, when it's ''a comfort, and a safety net,'' said Thomas Barbagianis, a man who should know. 
 Mr. Barbagianis, 49, is among the many high-end florists in New York who have been struggling in the recession, like everyone else. 
 His revenue at Ariston Florists, at 110 West 17th Street in Manhattan, is down about 20 percent this year. 
 But roses? Up 10 percent in sales, he said, followed by orchids and tulips, which are also recessionary bright spots. So what's in a rose?
 ''My customers say a rose means reassurance,'' he said. ''They are not experimenting with flowers right now. They are looking for basic beauty. They want something that expresses love and happiness, that reminds them of good times in the past -- and, they hope, good times to come.''
 Ariston's roses -- from only the most credentialed farms in Holland and Ecuador -- cost $48 to $72 a dozen, with greens; a single rose is $5. 
 ''We are selling a lot of them: guys buying them for their wives, women buying them for themselves or a friend,'' said Mr. Barbagianis.
 ''Everything else is down,'' he said, adding that he has seen many economic ups and downs since his family established the business in 1977.
 It has been especially hard hit by a decline in the large orders that he has long filled for corporate receptions and designer galas. 
 He has worked with his steady clients by signing them up for monthly flower-delivery plans and by selling them orchids, ''which cost more but last much longer,'' he said. 
 At Ariston, cut Dendrobiums cost $3 per stem and Cymbidiums $35 a stem; orchid plants sell for $20 to $100. 
 ''In general, people need more flowers in a recession,'' said Mr. Barbagianis, who is hardly neutral in the whole matter. 
 Christina Burnett, 32, a customer of Mr. Barbagianis's, said that while she had cut back on many things, she was ''getting roses a lot now.'' 
 Ms. Burnett, a video-game distributor, works near Ariston in Manhattan. 
 ''Roses would be the last thing I eliminate,'' she said. ''They really make my week.''
 Other luxury florists say the rose boom started with Valentine's Day and hasn't stopped yet. 
 ''But people seem tired of red, so it's the pink roses they're asking for,'' said Peter Seprish, 28, the creative director of Takashimaya Floral Boutique at 693 Fifth Avenue. 
 ''People are looking for optimism in this economy,'' Mr. Seprish said, ''and perhaps they see roses as something that will bring up their moods.'' 
 He added, ''Or perhaps it's just that it's spring.'' GLENN COLLINS 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 On Idling, Unattended Cars: The maximum fine for leaving your vehicle unattended and idling in New York City is only $5 -- even if the car eventually kills people if it has been left in gear or is stolen. 
 Councilwoman Elizabeth Crowley wants to increase the fine to $250, spurred in large part by two high-profile fatal accidents, one in Queens and the other in Chinatown.
 SLIDESHOW: A Year on the Night Shift: From the city that never sleeps comes ''Nightshift NYC,'' a book based on a year of ethnographic and journalistic examination of the lives of more than 100 nighttime workers. With a slide show. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FLORISTS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1051 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: It Has Computers, Gives Advice and Is Free

BYLINE: By JOSHUA BRUSTEIN

 BODY:
Anthony Morris's job search hit a snag this month when the Queens Borough Public Library notified him that he could not get a new library card until he paid about $80 in fines.
 Mr. Morris, 31, had been unemployed for eight months and did not have the money. But he had amassed an armful of library books he needed to prepare for an exam that was part of the application process for a job at Con Edison, and he also needed a library card to browse online classified sites. So he asked if he could work off his debt.
 After 22 hours of sorting books in the reference section at the Jamaica branch, Mr. Morris got his library card -- and was asked to apply for a part-time position at the library. 
 ''It's just minimum wage, but it beats a blank,'' said Mr. Morris, who lives nearby and previously worked at a chemical plant that manufactured leather dyes. He is waiting to hear whether he got the job. 
 While such direct results are certainly rare, the city's public libraries are increasingly serving as makeshift employment centers. At the 58th Street branch of the New York Public Library in Manhattan, out-of-work professionals crowd the computers in the afternoon, a time that had previously been dominated by elderly patrons, and books on resume writing are hard to keep on the shelves. The Science, Industry and Business Library on 34th Street drew 700 people to a career preparedness fair in January, and the Bronx Library Center recently doubled the number of computer classes it offers to the elderly because people looking to re-enter the work force had packed the existing classes to overflow levels. 
 ''We've been in the job-search business for decades,'' said Paul LeClerc, the president of the New York Public Library, noting that President Obama has said that a librarian helped him find his first job as a community organizer. ''This is a continuation.'' 
 The new role comes amid a broader surge in demand for libraries' free goods and services that is typical during economic downturns. In the fourth quarter of 2008, circulation rose 16 percent compared with the previous year at the New York Public Library, which serves Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island; 9 percent at the Brooklyn Public Library; and 2 percent in Queens. All three systems also report significant increases in the number of visits. 
 But the libraries are facing steep cuts in the mayor's proposed budget for next year, and have other economic woes. Brooklyn has already shut its branches on Sundays and is considering trimming hours further. This month, a hotel company backed away from its pledge to purchase the Donnell Library, a five-story building on 53rd Street, whose sale was intended to help pay for the $250 million renovation of the New York Public Library's headquarters on Fifth Avenue.
 At the Bronx Library Center, near Fordham University, Janice Moore-Smith, an education and career counselor, has over the years typically helped half a dozen people a day with their resumes. In recent months, it has often been 10. And Ms. Moore-Smith said that she had been scheduling more joint sessions for husbands and wives in which she doles out emotional support along with employment tips. 
 ''I'm doing couples therapy,'' she said. 
 The most common service being sought, librarians said, is computer time. At the Queens Library for Teens in Far Rockaway, more and more teenagers are showing up to sign on, saying their parents have canceled Internet service at home. And with Web sites largely having replaced newspapers as the most common job-listing venues, finding work without Internet access has become increasingly difficult. 
 Kerwin P. Pilgrim, division manager of the Brooklyn Public Library's education and job information center, said that he began training 15 staff members to provide individual assistance to job seekers last summer, in anticipation that demand would rise as the economy worsened. In January, the library announced that there would be one such staff member available at all times in at least one branch within each group of four branches. 
 Until recently, Mr. Pilgrim said, most people who came to the library's resume workshops were looking for entry-level jobs. Now, the proportion of professionals in the classes has soared.
 ''When the banks started going down, we saw some people who had been employed for a long time and had never taken the time to write resumes or work on interviewing skills,'' he said. ''People got comfortable, and basically their resumes were never updated.''
 Mitch Baucus has long been a regular at the Flushing branch of the Queens library, but lately it has transformed from a place of leisure to his virtual office. 
 When he was working as a legal researcher for a lawyer in Great Neck, Mr. Baucus regularly spent an afternoon each weekend reading newspapers and magazines at the library. Since he was laid off in early December, he has been showing up five or six days a week to scour the Internet for employment opportunities.
 He spent several months searching without success, then noticed something he had overlooked.
 ''I realized there was a person sitting there and his job was to help people with their resumes and interviewing skills,'' he said. ''So I went up to him and asked him for help.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony Morris, needing books and the Internet for his job search, worked off his old fines so he could get a new library card.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (91%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1052 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3159 words

HEADLINE: The Custom Cure For Home Office Chaos

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

 BODY:
BY the time I started looking for someone to help me organize my home office, where I work when I'm not out reporting stories, it was not a pretty sight: notebooks, papers, bills, cellphone chargers, books, digital cameras and tape recorders, batteries, stamps, magazines, Sweet'n Low and Splenda packets (where did they come from?) were piling up on my desk, the floor and the filing cabinet. 
 I found a few professional organizers on the Web and made some calls, without much success. One woman charged a minimum of $250 an hour (because, she said, ''I can get it''); another suggested I consider going paperless, putting everything on the computer (not an option, in my mind). 
 Then one day Liz, the daughter of my longtime boyfriend, Lou Ureneck, came to visit us in our small two-bedroom apartment in Brookline, Mass. Liz, a struggling actress in New York who pays the rent with odd jobs -- waitress, party caterer, freelance cupcake baker -- hadn't spent much time with us before, but I quickly noticed her extreme tidiness. 
 When she went into the kitchen to make a cup of tea, she never left the box of tea bags out for more than a minute; the used tea bag would disappear instantly into the garbage. And then, since she was already in there, she'd just clean everything, washing the dishes Lou and I had left in the sink, unloading the dishwasher, scrubbing down the counters for good measure. 
 I tried to thank her, but she shrugged it off. It was the just way she was. 
 I was awed, I was grateful. Liz was the one.
 ''Liz,'' I said, leading her into my office, which was also the guest room in which she was staying, ''do you think you might be able to help me with this?''
 Within two days, she had waded through everything, consulting with me over what to toss and what to file under which category. We came up with dozens -- Education Story Ideas, Bills, Manny Ramirez, Poems I Love, Expense Receipts, Letters from Mom and Dad -- and she created a place for each, writing the headings onto manila folders that she dropped into hanging files in the double-wide, teak-finish filing cabinet I had bought at Ikea five years earlier, but had never made much use of. 
 After Liz went back to New York, some friends came to dinner. I raved about her wizardry with the filing cabinet and bragged that she had brought me to a higher state of organization. I was thrilled with this fresh start, and wanted to share my excitement. 
 ''I did that once,'' said one of the men at the table, a computer consultant, with a skeptical tone in his voice. ''I got everything put away. And I never opened the filing cabinet again.'' 
 ''That,'' I said serenely, ''won't happen to me.'' 
 A few months later, it had. The cabinet was again serving mainly as a place to put notebooks, scraps of paper and letters I was planning to file tomorrow. The clutter had not only returned but multiplied. I was back to where I'd started, or worse. 
 I wasn't alone. In the last decade, as our personal and work lives have become more frenetic, books by organizing gurus like Julie Morgenstern, Peter Walsh and David Allen have packed the best-seller list, and magazines like O and Real Simple have spent tens of thousands of words on the subject. The professional organizing business has grown exponentially (as evidenced, for example, by a 400-percent increase in the membership of the National Association of Professional Organizers since 1999). 
 Now, as unemployment is on the rise and freelance work and part-time jobs are replacing many full-time ones, more of us are spending more time in home offices (or in the tiny nooks that often pass for them). We may be spending less on furnishing them, but the demand for ways to make these spaces make sense has probably never been higher. 
 ''People are overwhelmed,'' said Nancy Black, a professional organizer in Beverly, Mass., for 26 years. ''They're trying to work 24-7. All you can do is help them figure out how to make their environment work best for them.''
 But as serial readers of books on this subject learn -- and as I learned after Liz's masterful filing job -- organization is not a one-size-fits-all proposition. Just as people's differing appetites, metabolisms and capacities for exercise mean that a given diet will work well for some, not at all for others, differences in work styles can run deep, and often call for customized approaches to the home office. And yet, the experts say, few of us take (or even believe we have) the time to figure out how we really work, or what kind of system is likely to work for us.
 Which is why Lisa Whited, an interior designer who specializes in adapting work spaces to the needs, habits and goals of their users, began our relationship -- one that would end up changing my life -- with an interview. 
 I'd found Ms. Whited through Lou's brother, Paul Ureneck, who lives near her in Maine, about two months after the papers in my office started piling up again. Although she was based in Portland, more than 100 miles north of our apartment, she came highly recommended, agreed to do the whole project for a fee under $500 and was already making the commute down to the Boston area for another job. (I wasn't organized enough to think of writing about the experience until later, of course.)
 THE interview started on the phone before we met, and continued into her first visit. Was I right-handed or left-handed? Which side of the desk did I answer the phone on? How much office time did I spend on the computer? Did the printer work for me there, to the left of the computer where I had to reach for pages with my left hand? 
 What about all those reporter's notebooks stacked up on the desk, or the files full of notes spread out across it? How did I use them: did I need them out and open while I was working? 
 And what about that filing cabinet against the wall -- the one with the papers stacked on top of it? Was that working for me? 
 It was not, of course, and that was one of my biggest problems. I found it strangely challenging to open that drawer, and I kept wondering who'd invented those hanging file folders that spilled all my papers onto the floor when I pulled them out of the cabinet. On top of which, I had a strong resistance to putting anything back in the cabinet that I might need anytime soon.
 Ms. Whited said I was the kind of person who needed to see things in front of me or else I forgot I had them. Apparently, I'm not alone. 
 ''More and more people I see aren't using their filing cabinets, except for archival material,'' Ms. Whited said. ''It works great for some people -- they're the clean desk people. They take just one thing out at a time. They can focus on one thing at a time. They can put it back in the filing cabinet and take out the next thing they need.'' 
 What I needed, on the other hand, was a system that would allow me to see a lot of my papers and other materials at once, without the chaos of a paper-cluttered desk. To create this, Ms. Whited said, we'd have to make use of vertical space. 
 She suggested installing three long white Elfa shelves on the wall above my desk, to support the rectangular bins that she was proposing as my alternative to the filing cabinet. I had stumbled upon the bins myself, at the hardware store down the block, and was using the two I had bought to hold papers and reporter's notebooks. That was crucial: They were big enough to hold both notebooks and papers -- filed in manila folders, when I really wanted to be on top of things -- but not so big that stuff was lost inside. They were working for me. 
 Ms. Whited took my ad hoc efforts to the next level. I bought lot of bins, more than two dozen, in attractive shades of dark green and dark orange (I would have stuck to one color, as Ms. Whited advised, but the hardware store kept running out), dedicating each to a different category. I was a little worried about their price -- $17 each, though I later found them at an art supply store for $15 -- but I found that I loved having them there. I loved looking at them, all lined up within reach. They were like a map to all the interesting stuff in my work and private life, and they even made the uninteresting stuff -- Bills, Expense Receipts -- seem somehow pleasant.
 The secret to this system was labeling the bins with category names, and for that, Ms. Whited told me, I would need a device that just about everyone whose work involves organizing seems to worship, the label maker. This battery-powered appliance, and the neatly printed black-and-white strips it churns out, gives off a hard-to-pinpoint but powerful vibe of organization, its advocates say, that even the neatest handwritten labels can't match. ''The labeler is a surprisingly critical tool in our work,'' writes David Allen, the productivity consultant and efficiency expert, in his magnum opus, ''Getting Things Done.''
 Mr. Allen elaborated in a telephone interview, describing the process and rewards of label making in a fittingly telegraphic style. ''You make a folder, you open it, you see the label, it's done, 'I'm a winner,' '' he said. 
 Ms. Whited came to the label maker a few years ago, when she had a major health scare, and one of her first worries was about her husband and three small children: ''How is Pete going to know where everything is?''
 Having worked with an organizer herself, she knew about label makers. She bought one, and began labeling the clear plastic bins she stored everything in. Children's medicine. Adult medicine. Bread. Waffles (In a plastic bin in the freezer). Candy. Cat treats. All the stuff in the cellar: Caulking. Paint thinner. Linseed Oil. 
 The tests came back negative. She was going to live -- but never again without a label maker. 
 If the label maker is the universal organizing tool, labels themselves are an entirely personal matter, Ms. Whited and other designers and organizers say. 
 ''When someone says to me, 'How should I label this,' I say, 'I can't answer that for you,' '' said Ms. Black, the organizer from Beverly. '''Otherwise, when I leave, you're not going to be able to find it.' '' She does frown on one particular label, though: ''Miscellaneous,'' which she sees as a black hole of a category. '''If you really want it, you can have it,' '' she tells clients, 'but don't tell anyone I helped you with it.' ''
 Once I'd picked my category names, labeled the bins and arranged them on the shelves, the system immediately seemed to work: there were about 30 bins, enough to handle the full range of things I needed to stay on top of but few enough that I could scan all their labels closely in about a minute. And the bins were small enough that I didn't need to be fussy about the organization within each one; I could stick forms, notes and other papers into them without worrying about their exact position and still feel confident that I'd be able to retrieve them quickly. 
 Systems often fail, Ms. Black said, because people trying to get organized put too much pressure on themselves to do it perfectly. And one thing that contributes to this problem, she believes, is the tendency of magazines to show ''perfect people in their perfectly organized offices.''
 '' 'They cleaned it up for the photo shoot' -- I tell people that all the time,'' she said. ''There is no such thing as the perfect system. It's a matter of what the person is comfortable with in trying to make it work.''
 Ms. Black has a client who is a sales manager for a food company and spends much of his life on the road, visiting restaurants and taking orders. He has a fairly well-organized filing cabinet in his home office, but he also has a habit of writing down important information on little scraps of paper, and then, when he gets home, dumping the scraps into a mess of papers on his desk, which is in his dining room. Ms. Black did not try to push him to start using a notebook or some other neater system; she just encouraged him to start putting the little slips into variously marked ''action'' folders -- ''Hot Leads,'' ''Customer Group 1'' -- that he keeps in a single large file on his desktop. 
 As a designer, Ms. Whited can make larger-scale adaptations to her clients' work styles, or at least try to. On a recent job at a law firm, she met a lawyer who covered his desk and floor with papers in the course of preparing a case. The firm had always furnished its offices with desks and credenzas, but Ms. Whited saw that these surfaces were not working for this lawyer, or others in the firm, and proposed replacing them with low shelves that would surround him as he worked, like a pilot in a cockpit, allowing him to reach whatever he needed. The senior partners wouldn't give up the credenzas, although Ms. Whited made the case that her unorthodox approach would save the firm money by saving the lawyer's time. 
 ''It's about using the space you have better, it's not about making it bigger,'' Ms. Whited said of both her proposal and her work generally. 
 In taking on my space, Ms. Whited took aesthetic considerations as seriously as organizational ones: We had already established that the look of the room mattered to me, and to my sense of well-being in working there, even if I couldn't see all the problems she did. In cases like the floor lamp with no shade, just a naked bulb, she didn't consult me. ''That has to go,'' she said, and she took it with her to the dump in Maine. 
 Artwork was a trickier issue. A large map of an Alaskan river hung over the futon, and though I had never liked it all that much, I knew it meant a lot to Lou, who has spent time there fishing and rafting with his son. I was reluctant even to think about moving it, but Ms. Whited persuaded me to talk to Lou about the possibility. He wasn't overjoyed at first, but we found a prominent place for it in the entrance hall, and it was replaced in the office with photographs of Martha's Vineyard, set off on another wall by some watercolors -- a change that made the space feel more soothing. 
 Still, having a work space in a home requires compromise, especially when space is tight. Lou has an office at Boston University, where he teaches journalism, a 10-minute walk from our apartment. But he also writes books, and what writer wouldn't like an office at home, or at least a desk, to use on weekends, or early mornings before work, or late at night? 
 AFTER four weeks of working with Ms. Whited, and $1,800 spent on designer's fees, organizing materials and hardware and a new (used) Aeron chair, I felt so happy in my newly organized office that I wanted to share it with Lou. With everything put away, the space seemed vast. Why should I have all that space to myself? Come on in, Lou. He set up an old desk against the wall next to the futon sofa, diagonally from mine. 
 He did what regular people tend to do at their desks: Talked on the phone in a voice above a whisper. Tapped at his computer. Directed occasional comments to the other person in the room. I did my best not to snap. And then he did one semi-weird thing: Lou is a fly fisherman, and one night he came into the office and began attaching some sort of vise to the side of his desk. It made a really loud clanking noise. Oh, that, he said. It's a fly-tying vise. So when he wanted a break from writing, he could sit there and tie flies. 
 Goodbye, Lou. He was understanding. Eventually, he started using the dining room table as an auxiliary desk, or sitting on the living room sofa with his laptop. 
 Often, however, the home office has tobe shared. Nancy Black has a client, a woman who is the chief executive of a small company and works out of a small room in her house. Her husband is an economist with an outside office, but he also runs a photography business from a desk next to his wife's. He is, Ms. Black said diplomatically, not as neat and organized as his wife. 
 ''The challenge there was to help her organize her part of the room so that it works for her -- and to accept the fact that he's not going to put away things neatly,'' Ms. Black said. ''You pick your battles.'' 
 Her solution: Use the open shelving in the room for large bins where the husband could throw his things. ''All she sees are bins,'' Ms. Black said. Ideally, she added, there would be enough space so the husband could have his desk in a separate room. But ''a lot of people with home offices do not have an ideal world.'' 
 Then again, exposure to the not-yet-organized may not be entirely bad for those of us who've crossed over. There is such a thing, after all, as too much organization. 
 Last Wednesday, Ms. Whited's 11-year-old daughter, Claire, who is in fifth grade, started looking around for her science homework. She had worked on it for days, filling one side of a white sheet of paper with more than a dozen colored drawings of liquids, solids and gases. She was sure she had left it face down on the dining room table, where her younger brothers like to color. 
 ''My heart sank when she said it was right there on the table,'' Ms. Whited said. 
 Claire was close to tears. ''I kept saying, 'I am so sorry, I am just so sorry,' '' Ms. Whited said. '' 'What can I do?' She said I could write a letter to her teacher.'' 
 So Ms. Whited sat down and explained, in a handwritten note: No, the dog did not eat Claire's homework. Her mother, on one of her regular sweeps through the dining room, had recycled it. Pickup was on Tuesday.
 Ahh, Breathing Room
 Tips from Lisa Whited, an interior designer who specializes in adapting work spaces to her clients' particular needs and habits.
 The No. 1 rule is clear out the clutter. Get rid of broken things that you won't ever get around to fixing. Karen Kingston's book ''Clear Your Clutter With Feng Shui'' is a helpful guide.
 Color can help make a small or confined space feel more livable, and paint is the cheapest way to get it. ''I painted the walls of my home office -- a five-by-seven-foot, windowless walk-in closet -- yellow,'' Ms. Whited said. ''I like yellow, and we had leftover cans of Behr's Cornmeal in the basement.'' 
 Lighting is important: beyond a room's general illumination, which could be overhead lighting, you can use task lighting, to work at your desk, and accent lighting, like a hanging light, to create an inviting space. 
 Choose containers that are an appropriate size to hold what you're putting in them. They don't need to be fancy, but if they are going to be visible, they should at least look similar, so the space looks more organized. 
 Get the best chair you can afford. ''It's like your bed,'' Ms. Whited said. ''You spend a ton of time in it.'' 
 Always have extras of whatever you usually run out of on hand. ''I have at least one extra printer cartridge,'' she said, ''two reams of paper, staples, tape, etc.''
 Don't dismiss the importance of candles, flowers, a great piece of art -- whatever inspires you. It all helps. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLEANUP: The author's home office went from chaos to order after the intervention of Lisa Whited, an interior designer. From far left: clutter reigns, and storage space is improperly used
after hanging shelves, Ms. Whited starts sorting
 with new labeled bins, everything is in its place. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE, TOP MIDDLE AND BELOW BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOAH WOODS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); CATERING SERVICES (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1053 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Grand Bargain

 BODY:
You think the world's economic outlook is grim? Consider this possibility: Europe rejects the United States' call for more fiscal stimulus and resists further monetary easing, and Congress further tightens import restrictions to ensure the economic rescue package only creates jobs at home and doesn't leak to other countries. 
 Rich nations that have spent hundreds of billions of dollars bailing out their banks instruct them to focus on lending at home. Developing countries are cut off from international finance. Most devalue; many default. Trying to export their way out, they engage in competitive devaluations yet run up against new import barriers in the West. 
 It would be wrong to shrug off this scenario. Of course, every world leader knows that beggar-thy-neighbor strategies are likely to make the current global emergency worse. Still, protectionism thrives in economic crises as people seek scapegoats abroad for their troubles and demand protection for domestic jobs. 
 At their summit in Washington last November, leaders of the Group of 20 biggest economies underscored ''the critical importance of rejecting protectionism.'' A tally by the World Bank found that 17 of the countries have imposed some kind of protectionist policy -- from tariffs to tax rebates to export subsidies -- since then. 
 Leaders gathering for another G-20 summit next week in London must not only commit to avoid this path, they must flesh out their commitment with concrete proposals for concerted actions. The world needs a bargain that commits us all to seek collective solutions.
 The meeting could easily snag on intractable differences. The International Monetary Fund forecasts that countries in the euro zone will suffer a deeper recession than the United States. Still, this seems less of a worry to Europe than potential long-term budget deficits and currency weakness. The countries have not only refused the American call to spend more to dig out, but the Czech prime minister, representing the European Union, called the American plan the ''way to hell.''
 But there are some areas of accord that could be built on -- including support by Japan, the European Union and the United States to increase the resources available to the I.M.F. to at least $500 billion. The I.M.F. also has revamped aid programs to loosen some conditions and speed up payment to countries in need. 
 More needs to be done to help poorer nations. The World Bank has asked industrial countries to commit 0.7 percent of their stimulus financing toward aid. They could also back a new issue of special drawing rights -- the I.M.F.'s currency that can be used to help nations in need -- and welcome a bigger role in the fund for China, which could use some of its vast resources to help. It is important that they lean on their banks -- perhaps provide guarantees -- to encourage them not to pull out of the developing world.
 These efforts would help avert catastrophe in the poor world -- which would inevitably come back to bite the richer nations -- and would establish a sense of collective responsibility. This is vital. Whether countries agree today on specific ideas for economic stimulus and financial rescue, this crisis is not over. Part of the task ahead will be to monitor the evolution of the economic emergency and the effectiveness of rescue plans. 
 This month, the I.M.F. forecasted that the world economy would contract between 0.5 percent and 1 percent this year, which would be the worst performance since World War II. But each new forecast brings worse news. Rescue plans may well need to be intensified. If reality turns out worse than expected, it would be best if the world's leading countries were still talking and could agree to do something about it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EURO (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); RECESSION (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); TAX LAW (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1054 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Without Help, Postal Service Faces Threat of Going Broke, Official Says

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Postal Service will run out of money this year unless it gets help, the postmaster general, John E. Potter told Congress on Wednesday as he sought permission to cut delivery to five days a week. 
 ''We are facing losses of historic proportion,'' Mr. Potter said. ''Our situation is critical.''
 The agency lost $2.8 billion last year and is facing the likelihood of much larger losses this year, despite a rate increase scheduled to take effect May 11. Reducing mail delivery to five days a week from six could save $3.5 billion annually, Mr. Potter told the post office subcommittee of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
 He also urged changes in how the post office prepays for retiree health care to cut its annual costs by $2 billion.
 Even if the agency reaches its planned cuts of $5.9 billion this year, there could still be a $6 billion deficit in 2010, Mr. Potter said.
 ''Without a change, we will exhaust our cash resources,'' he said. ''We can no longer afford business as usual.''
 The volume of mail handled by the post office has been declining for some time, and the recession is making the situation worse. If there is no economic recovery, the agency projects that volume for the year will drop by 12 billion to 15 billion pieces of mail.
 The high fuel prices of last year also sapped money from the post office, which operates more than 200,000 vehicles. Every one-cent increase in the price of fuel costs the post office $8 million.
 Mr. Potter first raised the possibility of delivery cutbacks in January, but the idea has not been warmly received in Congress. Federal law now requires delivery six days a week. 
 Last week, the post office said it planned to offer early retirement to 150,000 workers and was eliminating 1,400 management positions and closing 6 of its 80 district offices in cost-cutting efforts. Mr. Potter said he expected 10,000 to 15,000 workers to accept the early retirement offer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1055 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; THE DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Short-Term Solutions to Long-Term Problems

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF

 BODY:
Does the government have a plan?
 The federal government has responded to the financial crisis by creating an alphabet soup of programs reminiscent of the New Deal. There is the CAP, TARP, TALF, the Financial Stability Plan, Relief for Responsible Homeowners and Unlocking Credit for Small Businesses, as well as special programs for institutions that are systemically failing and for the automotive industry.
These programs are an attempt to create order out of chaos. Yet the public remains wary, and many financial observers are puzzled by the government's seemingly shifting responses. 
 The government's difficulties arise from its overall approach. It has treated each program and individual bailout as unique, to be negotiated like any other corporate transaction. But the short-term response has locked the government into an inflexible course that does not permit long-term planning. It has been putting out fires, and the apparent lack of an overall plan has created yet more issues and bailouts, engendering public consternation instead of confidence. No greater example of this appears than the bailout of the American International Group. 
 If you asked a congressman who owned A.I.G., the likely response would be that the government does, at least 80 percent of it. That would be half-right. When this bailout was first negotiated in September, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (headed by the man who is now Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner) extended a line of credit up to $85 billion to the company.
 In connection with this loan, A.I.G. issued 79.9 percent of its voting shares to the Treasury Department, which placed these shares into a trust for the Treasury's benefit. Three trustees have virtually absolute discretion to run A.I.G. The trust is unbreakable, and the government has no control over the trustees' actions, so long as their decisions are not contrary to the interests of the government. 
 In the initial bailout, the government erected a careful structure to separate its ownership of A.I.G. from its control. This was presumably done to prevent political interference with ownership interest. In addition, the government imposed punitive lending restrictions on A.I.G. to dismember it. 
 But A.I.G. floundered, and the government's bailout was reworked twice more, in November and March. In November the terms of the loan were eased, but the government provided the company with additional help, about $90 billion. In March, the government began to cordon off A.I.G.'s subsidiaries. Its two main life insurance companies were placed into special-purpose vehicles so the subsidiaries could be seized separately by the government if A.I.G. went into bankruptcy. 
 By planning for a possible A.I.G. bankruptcy, the government was beginning to address the accusations that the company was holding the government hostage. 
 The government's approach has led to two significant criticisms. First, about $85 billion of the government assistance provided to A.I.G. has been used by the company to pay third-party banks to satisfy collateral calls and unwind credit default swaps. These payments were made by A.I.G. at the face price of the securities, not the lower market value. If the government had instead taken control of A.I.G. and negotiated directly with these third parties to pay a lower price, it could have saved some of the $85 billion. 
 Second, government control could have allowed it to cap A.I.G.'s losses. Last fall, the government could have cordoned off all of A.I.G.'s subsidiaries into vehicles insulated from a bankruptcy, but it did so with only two of them, and only this month. If it had taken stronger action earlier, it would now be in a position to throw A.I.G. into bankruptcy, if necessary, and offer direct support to affected financial institutions. 
 These are big ifs, though, and the government was acting under severe time constraints last fall. Moreover, A.I.G. has substantial assets, and the bailout money provided to A.I.G. could still be repaid in full. 
 Still, there are some clear problems with the government's approach. In each of its three successive bailouts of A.I.G., the government put into place a rigid and different structure for each one. First, it extended a harsh loan to force a breakup of A.I.G.; then it reworked the loan to keep A.I.G. afloat; and finally, six months later, it set up a structure allowing for bankruptcy. There does not appear to be much long-term planning here. 
 These clever legal structures may have met the government's near-term political needs -- saving A.I.G. and calming the financial system while avoiding nationalization -- but they failed to include flexibility and control to respond to unforeseen events. 
 The government is still bound to pour more money into A.I.G. if it's needed, but it still has only indirect control of the company to which it has extended credit and a potential $183 billion in bailout money. 
 Citigroup is another example of the government's short-term approach. It has invested $45 billion in Citigroup through three separate programs. Yet its ownership stake is capped at 36 percent, albeit with voting control and apparently no trust arrangement, as there was with A.I.G.
 Again, the government has negotiated a one-of-a-kind transaction and gotten only soft control when it could have bargained for much greater rights.
 Many questions remain: Will Citi need more money? And why were Citi and A.I.G. treated so differently? Compare these two bailouts with those of the automakers, which have been put on a much tighter leash. In that example, the government has demanded an actual say on their expenditures in connection with their bailouts. 
 Financial panics result from unbalanced information. An investor, unsure of a financial institution's soundness, runs for security to another institution. Moreover, in recessions, consumer confidence must be restored before a true economic turnaround can occur. 
 But in structuring each bailout as a one-off transaction -- no different from those made by an investment banker -- the government has left the public wary. The government has succeeded in saving these institutions, and must be given credit for that. But government by deal is not a complete plan and leaves many lacking confidence in the sustainability of the system. 
 We are at war against the financial crisis, and in times of war, there is self-sacrifice. The government is asking the citizenry to sacrifice, but it is financially engineering discrete solutions that pay benefits to a select few, like A.I.G.
 Instead of a taking a haphazard approach of ad-hoc bailouts, the government would do better to offer a comprehensive plan that calls for shared sacrifice by all, including the members of financial institutions. Mr. Geithner's recent call for a new type of receivership for financial institutions is a good start. But the administration needs to follow through on this and offer other holistic measures. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CRISIS MANAGEMENT: An A.I.G. building in New York. The government has extended three successive bailouts to the insurance giant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); COMMON STOCK (72%); INSURANCE (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1056 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: There's Safety In Military Contracts

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
Like so many small businesses in this weak economy, Kaos Worldwide, a sports apparel company just outside Houston, has been struggling. But it has managed to survive while its competitors have folded because it won a five-year, $1.5 million contract last year to supply sports bras to the United States military. 
 ''Without the military contract, we might not still be here,'' said Bert Emanuel, who founded the business with his wife, Terri, after a knee injury in 2001 forced him to retire from an 11-year career as a professional football player. Their company sells temperature-regulating and moisture-wicking base layers like T-shirts, shorts, leggings and bras. 
 While it may seem that only large corporations like Halliburton and Lockheed Martin would have a shot at lucrative military contracts, the Defense Department actually awards more than half, or $55 billion, to small businesses. And the Obama administration's $787 billion stimulus plan promises to make even more money available. 
 ''Small businesses play an important role in the economy and the military,'' said Joseph E. Misanin, deputy director of small-business programs at the Defense Department. ''They have an agility and flexibility that gives them an advantage over bigger companies.''
 Although the regulatory hurdles to becoming a military vendor can be daunting and frustrating, small-business owners who persevere say it is tremendously profitable and even essential to their survival. With the United States currently in the midst of two wars and tending to a multitude of other security concerns, they say the military is a recession-proof customer that has insulated them from the current economic downturn.
 Beth Harshfield, the owner of Exhibit Arts, an advertising and marketing company in Wichita, Kan., said she started bidding on military contracts six years ago because ''I got tired of the local economy kicking the legs out from under us.'' Now 80 percent of her business is with the military. Her company creates trade-show booths for Army recruiters and acts as a staffing agency for military bases.
 ''Once you're established and you perform well, there is unlimited potential,'' Ms. Harshfield said. ''But getting set up to work for the government is a confusing and lengthy process.'' 
 First, small businesses have to be certified to work for the government, which can be cumbersome. It means getting listed on the Central Contractor Registration database. This is required of all current and potential military contractors. Applications can be made online and require a company's tax identification number. 
 Once in the database, small businesses get a Commercial and Government Entity code; a Marketing Partner Identification Number and Trading Partner Identification Number. These are all essential for finding, bidding on and getting paid for military contracts. 
 Helping small businesses make sense of the credentialing process are regional procurement technical assistance centers. There are 93 of these federally financed offices nationwide, run by former military procurement officers.
 ''The first meeting takes a few hours when we learn about the business to see if it even has a product that's possible to sell to the military,'' said Debbie Smith, procurement specialist at the assistance center in New London, Conn. 
 If the answer is yes, then the center guides the small-business owner through the registration process and enters him or her into a central database that patrols the federal system for bid solicitations that fit their profile. Small businesses can also look through the listings on www.fedbizopps.gov for opportunities.
 But getting that first contract is difficult, said Ms. Harshfield of Exhibit Arts. ''They want you to have experience working with the military,'' she said. ''They aren't as interested in your commercial experience. So it's really hard to break in.'' It took two years, she said, for her company to get the military to accept a bid. 
 Mr. Emanuel said he was lucky that, through personal connections, a general in Iraq had learned of his product. The general ordered 10,000 bras for his female soldiers by credit card in 2005. So when Mr. Emanuel bid on the five-year contract that he eventually won last year, he was able to point to that experience. 
 Rather than bidding on contracts, some small businesses try to get their products listed on the General Services Administration schedule, which is essentially a giant e-mall where military procurement officers can buy items online with a standard credit card. If the company's product is consumer-oriented, it is eligible for listing on the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, an online, tax-free store for active-duty military and their families.
 Kathline Springer, director of business development at Rust Bullet in Reno, Nev., said it took two years of paperwork and lobbying various officials to get her company's rust-retardant coating listed in 2005 on the General Services Administration schedule. Still, she said, ''it was worth it'' because the military is now Rust Bullet's biggest customer. ''I don't have to worry if they are going to pay their bills.''
 Another option is to get a so-called National Stock Number, which gets a product in the Defense Department's database of items approved for military use. Mark Ewald, owner of Groove Tech in Waterbury, Vt., got a stock number in 2000 for his company's industrial-strength bungee cord. 
 ''I get most of my orders through word of mouth,'' he said. ''One military unit will get my product and tell another unit who wants to get it.'' The unit's procurement officer then uses the stock number to place an order. The military now accounts for more than half of Groove Tech's business, he said. 
 To expand his sales, Mr. Ewald said he had begun making marketing calls to military bases and National Guard units. ''Most of the work is finding out who the supply sergeant is and how to reach him,'' he said. Adding to his frustration, he said, is that military personnel are mobile, so contacts change frequently. 
 Rick Horn, who is with the assistance center in Las Vegas, said: ''It's certainly more complicated than dealing with a commercial entity. But the way the economy is these days, the government still has money and the private sector doesn't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bert Emanuel, the chief executive of Kaos Worldwide, won a $1.5 million, five-year contract to supply sports bras to the military.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); LINGERIE (77%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); TRADE SHOWS (65%); MILITARY RECRUITING (57%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (57%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (56%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (53%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (56%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (53%) KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1057 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: N. Korea Moves Missile to Launch Pad

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea has placed a long-range missile on a launch pad before a test that the United States, Japan and South Korea said would violate a United Nations Security Council resolution, a news report said Thursday.
 Spy satellites detected what looked to be a Taepodong-2 missile in place Tuesday at the Musudan-ri launch site near North Korea's northeastern coast, said Chosun Ilbo, South Korea's leading daily, quoting an unidentified diplomatic source.
 Once the rocket is installed on the pad, missile experts said, the North Koreans can technically launch it within three or four days -- the time needed for the fueling of a three-stage rocket. 
 North Korea has said it would launch a rocket over Japan and the Pacific between April 4 and 8 to deliver an experimental communications satellite into orbit. But Washington, Tokyo and Seoul have said the launch is a cover for testing its Taepodong-2 ballistic missile. Both missions -- the satellite and the ballistic missile -- use the same rocket technology.
 If North Korea successfully launches its rocket, it would demonstrate that the North has the technological skills to send up a missile that could travel as far as the western United States. Washington and its allies also consider North Korea's missile program an additional threat because the North has sold missile technology to the Middle East and is developing nuclear weapons that could potentially be loaded on its missiles.
 After North Korea detonated its first nuclear device in 2006, the Security Council adopted a resolution banning North Korea from further nuclear and missile tests.
 Washington warned that it would seek punishment at the Security Council -- probably more sanctions on the already isolated country -- if it goes ahead with the planned launch. And Japan has vowed to press for new sanctions if the rocket is tested.
 But North Korea warned this week that further sanctions would cause it to quit the so-called six-party talks. The United States, South Korea, Japan, China and Russia have been trying for years to persuade North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons programs in return for economic aid.
 The North's defiance is the first major test for President Obama in dealing with Pyongyang. 
 ''We intend to raise this violation of the Security Council resolution, if it goes forward, in the U.N.,'' U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Wednesday. ''This provocative action in violation of the U.N. mandate will not go unnoticed, and there will be consequences.''
 South Korea fears that a launch would raise military tensions, discouraging foreign investors away from South Korea amid a global recession. Seoul also favors punishing North Korea for a rocket launching.
 Won Tae-je, spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, declined to confirm the news report but said a launching would be ''a serious challenge and provocation against the security on the Korean Peninsula and regional stability in Northeast Asia.''
 A successful launch in the first week of April would give a timely boost to the domestic reputation of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il. The country's parliament is scheduled to convene April 9 to re-elect him as leader.
 Mr. Kim, 67, was reported to have suffered a stroke last August. His declining heath has raised questions about his grip on power and the future of his regime, where no clear successor has emerged.
 Some U.S. officials, including Adm. Timothy Keating, the head of U.S. Pacific Command, have said the United States has a capability to knock down any North Korean missile heading for U.S. territory.
 But such an intercept is highly unlikely, according to experts in Seoul, because Washington is trying to win the release of two television journalists North Korea recently detained. The North has charged them with illegally crossing the Chinese-North Korean border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1058 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Wilderness Bill Clears the House on Its Second Go-Round

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
The House of Representatives voted Wednesday to grant wilderness status to two million acres of public land in nine states from California to West Virginia, the largest expansion of protected national wild lands in 15 years.
 The Omnibus Public Land Management Act, which has already been passed by the Senate and is expected to be signed by President Obama, was approved in the House by a 285-to-140 vote. Representative Mary Bono Mack, Republican of California, the state with the largest chunk of newly protected land -- 700,000 acres -- called the legislation ''incredibly important.''
 ''It gives higher protection to environmentally sensitive, outright beautiful lands that deserve protection,'' Ms. Bono Mack said. She was one of 38 Republicans voting in favor. 
 The bill, an amalgam of more than 160 proposals, expands the nation's protected wilderness areas, which receive the highest level of protection from development, vehicles and commercial activities like logging and drilling, to 109 million acres. 
 Among the wild lands winning protection are 470,000 acres in the Eastern Sierra and San Gabriel Mountains in California, 517,000 acres in the Canyonlands in Idaho and 11,700 acres of Lake Superior shoreline in northern Michigan. The legislation also shields 1.2 million acres of the Wyoming Range, a hunting ground that is home to half of Wyoming's moose population, from oil and gas drilling.
 It also protects more than 1,000 miles of scenic rivers and streams from commercial development and creates new conservation areas and national parks, including two in New Jersey: the Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park and the Thomas Edison National Historical Park in West Orange.
 The bill's passage caps years of negotiations among federal, state and local officials, environmental groups and individuals. It drew bipartisan support but had failed by two votes in the House only two weeks ago. (On March 11, House lawmakers sought two-thirds approval with the goal of forestalling amendments. This time it passed by a simple majority.)
 The bill was opposed by members like Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, who was concerned about placing eight million acres of land off limits to oil and gas exploration. 
 Representative John Campbell, Republican of California, who also voted against the bill, said in a statement that ''the bill that was finally presented to the House also failed to restrict wasteful pork projects.''
 Yet the measure's most controversial provision was for an airport access road through a wildlife refuge in Alaska. That was revised to give the secretary of the interior the power to veto the route if it posed a risk of unacceptable environmental harm. (Environmentalists still oppose the road as inappropriate for a wilderness area and a danger to migratory birds.) 
 In addition to California, Idaho, Michigan, West Virginia and Wyoming, the states in which more wilderness will be designated are Colorado, New Mexico, Oregon and Utah. 
 Aside from protecting wilderness, supporters of the bill said it would yield economic benefits because those areas would attract more recreational users for pursuits like hiking, camping and fishing and hunting. 
 Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, estimated that the 700,000 acres of new protected land in the state would create at least 400 permanent jobs and bring millions of dollars in tourism.
 ''People are going to want to come and see these wonders of nature,'' Ms. Boxer said. ''California is defined by its environment, and this means that we're going to have a percentage of land in the state that's preserved in its original character. I couldn't be more thrilled.''
 Paul Spitler, an associate director with the Wilderness Society, said: ''In bad times as in good times, Americans still need natural landscapes they can enjoy for the scenic beauty and for recreation. This is one of the most important wilderness bills Congress has ever considered, and it will leave a lasting legacy for future generations.''
 It is the largest amount of acreage to be added to the preservation system since 1994, when Congress designated six million acres of the Southern California desert as protected wilderness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VETO (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); MAMMALS (77%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%); RIVERS (69%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); LAKES (66%); BIRDS (64%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (64%)

PERSON: MARY BONO MACK (79%); JOHN CAMPBELL (58%); MARSHA BLACKBURN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1059 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Tenant Set For Rebuilt Trade Center

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
It took three years of stop-and-start negotiations, but a Chinese real estate company is finally signing a lease for space in a 102-story skyscraper under construction at ground zero, becoming the first commercial tenant for the rebuilt World Trade Center. 
 The Beijing Vantone Industrial Company has agreed to a 23-year lease for floors 64 through 69 in what will be known as 1 World Trade Center, at the southeast corner of West and Vesey Streets. The $3.1 billion office building, once called the Freedom Tower, is scheduled to be completed in 2013.
 Vantone plans to build a cultural and business center for Chinese companies doing business in the United States and American companies working in China.
 ''The fact that the Chinese government would approve this major investment in what amounts to a speculative venture is significant,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business and policy group that has long supported the Vantone project. ''It could create the anchor for a number of other international tenancies from China and elsewhere. Maybe we'll see the World Trade Center finally become a world trade center.''
 Anthony R. Coscia, the chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said the Vantone lease was ''a firm stamp of approval for the World Trade Center site as a world-class business destination.''
 ''We look forward,'' he said, ''to building on this success and securing other quality tenants for 1 World Trade Center from around the globe.''
 Three years ago, Vantone had a tentative deal for the top floors of 7 World Trade Center, the recently built tower on Vesey Street. But it fell apart after Vantone was a few days late in posting a $45 million letter of credit. The Chinese company later flirted with a move to 195 Broadway, before announcing a nonbinding agreement with the Port Authority last June.
 The deal makes Vantone the first company to sign a lease for space at the trade center site. The federal government is expected to sign a lease this year for 419,000 square feet in 1 World Trade Center. The state, the city and the Port Authority have also pledged to lease space in the four office towers planned for the site.
 But given the economy, the prospects remain grim for signing other private tenants for the more than nine million square feet of office space planned for the 16-acre site, brokers say.
 The Port Authority, which owns the site and the 2.6 million-square-foot skyscraper, is expected to approve and sign the Vantone deal formally at a tea ceremony on Thursday. The company's annual rent starts at $80 per square foot, for about 190,000 square feet.
 Christopher O. Ward, the executive director of the Port Authority, said: ''Not only can we see the tower coming to life nearly 10 stories above street level, but we have leases to match our construction progress. There is much more work to be done both on construction and on leasing, but this is a real step in the right direction.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); APPROVALS (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (91%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1060 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: 370,000 Jobless In New Jersey

 BODY:
The rising tide of unemployment has officially reached New Jersey. For the first time in this recession, New Jersey's unemployment rate has surpassed the national rate, the state's Department of Labor and Workforce Development reported on Wednesday. 
 New Jersey's jobless rate jumped to 8.2 percent in February, from 7.3 percent in January. The national rate was 8.1 percent in February.
 There now are more unemployed people in New Jersey -- about 370,000 -- than at any time since the state began keeping records in 1976, the department's data show. The number of employed residents with jobs -- 4.14 million -- was the smallest since mid-2004.
 ''The troubled national economy continues to pose difficulties for many states, including New Jersey,'' said the state's labor commissioner, David J. Socolow.
 New Jersey lost more than 30,000 jobs in the first two months of 2009, including almost 20,000 in February, according to the report. The state's unemployment rate has risen for 13 consecutive months.
 The 12-month leap in the unemployment rate was the biggest ever. The state's unemployment rate had never risen or fallen by more than 3 percentage points during any 12-month period in at least 30 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1061 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Economics And Pizza Equations

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
The students Jeb Harrison teaches in his economics classes at Pocatello High School in Idaho have learned one thing for sure about these hard times: for $5 you can get a 14-inch pizza with one topping at Molto Caldo Pizzeria, just down the street. 
 Earlier this month, after residents of Pocatello rejected a school levy intended to help address a depleted budget and rising costs, Mr. Harrison decided to find a way to help. He approached Dan McIsaac, the pizzeria owner, and brokered a deal. 
 If Mr. McIsaac paid about $315 for 10,000 sheets of paper for Mr. Harrison's classes, more than a year's supply, the pizzeria could run an advertisement across the bottom of every sheet handed out in class.
 ''Wow,'' said Mr. Harrison, echoing the response of some of his students to the $5 pizza offer, ''that is a pretty good deal.''
 In the weeks since, Mr. McIsaac said, his lunch traffic has been fairly flat but his dinner business has increased 3 percent to 5 percent. The new patrons are mostly students' parents. 
 So far, no one has accused him or Mr. Harrison of exploiting students.
 Mr. Harrison said that he had no financial or other interest in the restaurant, and that the idea had helped him teach how advertising works. 
 ''I taught my kids a good lesson,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''I saved my school some money, and I helped out a local business.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: POCATELLO, ID, USA (94%) IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1062 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Study Links Student Obesity and Proximity of Schools to Fast Food

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Ninth graders whose schools are within a block of a fast-food outlet are more likely to be obese than students whose schools are a quarter of a mile or more away, according to a study of millions of schoolchildren by economists at the University of California and Columbia University. 
 The study, a widely circulated working paper of the independent National Bureau of Economic Research, marks an intensive effort by economists to determine whether close geographic proximity to fast food plays a causal role in obesity. 
 The sample population was large, spanned almost a decade and included such detailed geographic information that researchers were able to observe obesity rates among ninth graders in the same school in the years before and after a new fast food outlet opened nearby.
 After adjusting for a wide range of variables, including income, education and race, the researchers found that obesity rates were 5 percent higher among the ninth graders whose schools were within one-tenth of a mile of a pizza, burger or other popular fast-food outlet, compared with students attending schools farther away from fast-food stores.
 ''I think we got as close to proving causation as any other study has, and probably as close as is feasible with the existing data,'' said Enrico Moretti, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, and one of the paper's authors. ''We're quite confident that these are credible and unbiased estimates of the causal effect of fast food on obesity for the group we focused on.''
 Professor Moretti said it was not clear from the results why only students in such close proximity to fast food were affected.
 ''It could be that students don't like to wander too far,'' he said. ''Maybe they don't have a long lunch period. Maybe it's just the effect of having temptation right in front of your eyes.''
 A National Restaurant Association spokeswoman said the paper was a ''slapdash'' piece of work that was flawed because it did not take individual diet and exercise into account.
 Another arm of the study analyzed data on millions of pregnant women who gave birth in New Jersey, Michigan and Texas over the course of 15 years. After adjusting for a number of variables, the researchers determined that women who lived within a half-mile of a fast-food restaurant were at increased risk of gaining more than 44 pounds during a pregnancy, compared with those living farther away. 
 Since many of the women went on to have another child, the economists were also able to document increased weight gain during a subsequent pregnancy, after a new outlet had opened nearby. 
 Kelly Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University, said the study offered proof that fast-food restaurants contributed to the obesity problem, especially in children, and had implications for public policy. 
 ''Zoning laws that prohibit fast-food restaurants near schools are absolutely indicated, and neighborhoods that choose to zone out fast-food restaurants are probably taking a step to protect the future health of their children,'' Mr. Brownell said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); FAST FOOD (91%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (84%); CHILDREN (78%); DIETING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1063 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: They're Out of This World

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
IN his form-fitting unitard, nailhead belt and steely man-cuffs, Flash Gordon was suited up to save the planet, a swaggering sci-fi action hero who first swung his mighty sword during the Depression years. 
 Now Flash and his aerodynamically outfitted ilk -- mid-20th-century space warriors like Buck Rogers and the Green Lantern -- have resurfaced in spirit and in form, their ripped physiques and Herculean exploits inspiring an outpouring of movies, Web sites, books and even household gadgets that evoke a brave new future through the eyes of the past.
 ''Watchmen,'' about the exploits of a generation of lapsed superheroes, is captivating moviegoers. Buck Rogers will resume his adventures on the Web next year. And Virgin Galactic, the space-cruising arm of Virgin Atlantic, is offering to rocket would-be astronauts into orbit. 
 Fashion, too, is revisiting yesterday's Tomorrowland. In their collections for fall 2009, forward-thinking designers like Karl Lagerfeld, Rick Owens and Christophe Decarnin of Balmain cast a wistful backward glance at the swashbuckling universe of space-traveling superheroes. 
 Those collections -- costume extravaganzas, really -- were packed with references to the kind of science fiction that had its genesis during the hardscrabble 1930s. Models in glittering peak-shoulder party frocks or tricked out like astral voyagers in silver jumpsuits appeared to be suited up heroically for uncertain times ahead.
 ''The spirit of midcentury retro-futurism definitely lives on,'' said Daniel H. Wilson, a specialist in robotics and the author of ''Where's My Jetpack,'' a tongue-in-cheek exploration of, in the author's words, ''a future than never arrives.'' Now as in past decades, space sagas are a vivid expression of the ''human impulse to look to science to solve our problems,'' Mr. Wilson said. 
 In the aftermath of the Depression and World War II, a conviction that science and technology would rescue the planet -- or at least our bank accounts -- buoyed the public's confidence. That faith persists today, but with a difference. In the 1940s and '50s, ''it arose out of optimism,'' Mr. Wilson said. In today's gloomy climate, visions of ray guns, starships and flanged metallic bodysuits may not be enough to rekindle that confidence, but they do offer a much-longed-for escape. 
 ''We're frantic to lose ourselves in fantasy,'' said Martin Kaplan, an associate dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Southern California. ''We love heroes, not technocrats. When times are so grim that you can't get out of bed, you dream of someone who can fly.'' 
 When Captain James T. Kirk and his doughty crew return in May to the U.S.S. Enterprise in the new ''Star Trek,'' they will stand in for the spirit of expectancy that flourished during the postwar years. As Bryan Burk, the film's executive producer, pointed out, the ''Star Trek'' originator, Gene Roddenberry, envisioned in the 1960s a utopian future in which a reeling economy, racial tensions, environmental crises and other evils survived only on the pages of history books. 
 In Mr. Roddenberry's universe, the spirited crusaders of Planet Earth were left no option but to travel to faraway galaxies to find challenges worthy of their superpowers. In subsequent years, his delirious imaginings gave way to a more cynical mind-set, one reflected in the brooding atmospherics of movies like ''Batman Begins'' or in post-apocalyptic sagas like ''I Am Legend.'' But Mr. Burk, in making the 11th ''Star Trek'' motion picture since 1979, is courting a new audience by portraying ''the opposite of a bleak dystopian future.'' 
 ''We want to put forward the idea that everything is going to be O.K.,'' he said. 
 Well, more than O.K. ''Space fleets were our wagon trains to the stars,'' said Kenneth Jurkiewicz, an associate professor in the School of Broadcast and Cinematic Arts at Central Michigan University. They fueled fantasies of limitless horizons, along with the faith that, as Dr. Jurkiewicz pointed out, ''our future will be exactly like our past, except better.''
 The yearning to resurrect the feats of daring and the moral certainties of a bygone age is at the heart of films like ''Watchmen,'' whose dissolute superheroes leap back into their armor, rescuing children from raging flames and attempting, however briefly, to restore peace and order to the planet.
 A similar nostalgia is likely to color the new Buck Rogers Web epic, as well as a book, ''John Carter of Mars'' (newly formatted for the Amazon Kindle), detailing the exploits of Edgar Rice Burroughs's sword-swinging warrior, who first flexed his formidable biceps in the early 1900s and inspired Buck Rogers. A live-action version of the John Carter book, from Disney Pixar, is in the casting stage.
 Virgin Galactic's ''suborbital'' space voyages, offered at a starting price of $200,000 deliberately invoke Pan Am's promise, in the late '60s, to begin operating commercial flights to the moon. 
 Yet space enthusiasts need travel no farther than their kitchens. Recently, Ziba, a California design-consulting company, worked with KitchenAid to rebrand its mixers and food processors. The processor replicates a 1950s household appliance modeled to look like a ray gun. Illy, an Italian manufacturer of kitchen appliances, has come up with the iperEspresso, a coffee maker with the face and stunted stature of a high-polish R2-D2.
 Fashion seekers can, of course, consult their wardrobes, which, come fall, will likely be spiked with variations on an architectural-looking cocktail dress or jumpsuit (Balmain), accessorized with hot-pink moon boots (Nina Ricci), a helmet or supersize headphones (Lagerfeld) or an evening dress so elaborately draped it could have been worn by Flash Gordon's consort, Dale Arden (Balenciaga). 
 Action-comic superheroes have been teleported to the runways many times before, most theatrically, perhaps, in the late '70s and early '80s collections of Thierry Mugler and Kansai Yamamoto. But the resurgence of spacewear this season is especially forceful, and touching, as designers confront an uncertain future. In their most recent shows, self-styled seers of the catwalks combined robotic engineering with effusive draping and scavenged-looking elements that appeared to be inspired by the fantasy worlds of the ''Mad Max'' films. 
 Like Dr. Frankenstein, who used spare bolts and body parts to fashion his monster, Laura Mulleavy, who with her sister, Kate, designs the Rodarte line, deployed shimmering textiles in shredded layers to suggest, as she put it, ''that we are living in a salvage culture.'' 
 Rick Owens, whose fall presentation this month had an otherworldly caste, calls the latest revival ''an escape from banality.'' Mr. Owens acknowledged that his designs owe a debt to Frank Frazetta's illustrations for the John Carter book series, whose raven-haired protagonist sported a six-pack and scanty skins, and was ''caveman and futuristic at the same time.'' His own designs, with their fierce-looking layers, meandering zippers and winged lapels, suggest a similar hybrid, expressing, he said, ''a sentimental longing for utopian happiness that is poignantly always out of reach.''
 The impulse to explore an imaginary future is born partly of necessity. ''Designers are feeling pressure to simplify, to idealize -- to create some sort of fashion manifesto in response to a failing economy,'' said Andrew Bolton, a curator at the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. In purely practical terms, he said, that translates to ''a vocabulary of hard tailoring, streamlining and very short skirts -- all the things associated with space-age science fiction.'' 
 Like the filmmakers, writers and Web designers, the fashion makers may also feel an urgency to populate their runways with characters who can transport audiences beyond dour everyday realities. Some may posture as heroic teens, others as idealized parent figures. 
 ''What we need are first responders who don't share our pain,'' said Martin Kaplan, the associate dean. ''If there's one thing Buck Rogers or Flash Gordon never had to think about, it's a pension.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Thursday with an article about the current fashion influence of 1930s science fiction gave an incorrect identification from the Everett Collection photo archive for the movie serial shown. The scene, showing two actors, was from ''Flash Gordon,'' not ''Buck Rogers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN ORBIT: Clockwise from top left, a Balmain dress, Zoe Saldana in ''Star Trek''
Nina Ricci boots and scenes from ''Watchmen''and ''Buck Rogers.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, COVER: CATWALKING/GETTY IMAGES (BALMAIN DRESS)
ZADE ROSENTHAL/PARAMOUNT (ZOe SALDANA)
FRANcOIS GUILLOT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (NINA RICCI)
CLAY ENOS/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES (''WATCHMEN'')
EVERETT COLLECTION (BUCK ROGERS).) (pg.E1)
TIME TRAVEL: Clockwise from top left, a scene from ''Flash Gordon,'' the runway of the Rick Owens collection, Tina Turner in ''Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome'' and a similar look this month at the Karl Lagerfeld show.
OF ONE MIND: The look of the Rodarte show, left, the Lagerfeld show, center, and the Great Gazoo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVERETT COLLECTION (''FLASH GORDON'')
VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (RICK OWENS)
FRANcOIS MORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS (KARL LAGERFELD)
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES (RODARTE COLLECTION)
 WARNER BROTHERS/COURTESY THE EVERETT COLLECTION (TINA TURNER)) (pg.E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); WRITERS (75%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (66%); WORLD WAR II (61%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1064 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: No Time for Budgetary Games

 BODY:
The education portion of the stimulus package passed by Congress last month could revive the national school reform effort while shielding the schools from budget cuts and teacher layoffs driven by the recession. That is a tall order, but the opportunity is there -- an opportunity that could slip away if the states are not required to hold up their end of the bargain. 
 States sometimes play budgetary games with federal education money -- cutting their own contributions and using federal dollars to plug the hole. Rules expected next week from the Department of Education need to be crystal clear on how the stabilization money can and cannot be used. They must, for instance, insist that states draw up plausible plans for finally giving poor and minority schools a fair share of experienced, qualified teachers. 
 Most importantly, Arne Duncan, the education secretary, needs to enforce a provision in the bill that requires states tapping into the federal fund to maintain specified levels of spending. Federal dollars cannot become a convenient excuse for cutting state expenditures.
 Disputes about this and related issues have erupted all over the country. In Rhode Island, for example, the mayor of Providence, David Cicilline, has charged that the state's plan would substitute stimulus money for state spending and favor wealthy districts over poor ones. He has asked Mr. Duncan to intervene. 
 A similar dispute has erupted in California, which has a well-deserved reputation for budgetary sleight of hand. Localities are worried that the state government will hold on to money that should be coming to them. Most of California's Democratic representatives in the House expressed the same fears in a frosty letter to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, telling him that Congress wants the state to pass on the money quickly to local education agencies, which then would decide how to spend it. 
 The letter, signed by George Miller, chairman of the House education committee and one of the architects of the education package, reflects concern among influential members of Congress about a lack of clear guidance from the administration. 
 Congress knows that some states will suffer more than others from the recession. The bill provides leeway for states to adjust spending while still being in compliance with the law. What Congress does not want is for states to ransack the school stimulus budget to, say, build roads or pay down debt. 
 It's up to Mr. Duncan to promulgate clear rules in this area and to make sure that the states follow them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (78%); DAVID CICILLINE (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1065 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: N. Korean Missile Reportedly in Place

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea has placed a long-range missile on a launching pad before a test that the United States, Japan and South Korea said would violate a United Nations Security Council resolution, a news report said Thursday.
 Spy satellites detected what looked to be a Taepodong-2 missile in place Tuesday at the Musudan-ri launching site near North Korea's northeastern coast, said Chosun Ilbo, South Korea's leading daily newspaper, quoting an unidentified diplomatic source.
 Once the rocket is installed on the pad, missile experts said, the North Koreans can technically launch it within three or four days -- the time needed for the fueling of a three-stage rocket. 
 North Korea has said it would launch a rocket over Japan and the Pacific between April 4 and 8 to deliver an experimental communications satellite into orbit. But Washington, Tokyo and Seoul have said the launching is a cover for testing its Taepodong-2 ballistic missile. Both missions -- the satellite and the ballistic missile -- use the same rocket technology.
 Washington has warned that it would seek punishment at the Security Council -- probably more sanctions on the already isolated country -- if North Korea goes ahead with the launching. And Japan has vowed to press for new sanctions if the rocket is tested. The Security Council adopted a resolution banning it from further nuclear and missile tests after North Korea detonated its first nuclear device in 2006.
 The North's defiance is the first major test for President Obama in dealing with Pyongyang. 
 ''We intend to raise this violation of the Security Council resolution, if it goes forward, in the U.N.,'' said Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday. ''This provocative action in violation of the U.N. mandate will not go unnoticed, and there will be consequences.''
 North Korea countered Thursday that further sanctions would cause it to quit the so-called six-party talks, which have been deadlocked since late last year after North Korea expelled international monitors from Yongbyon, its main plutonium-producing nuclear facility. The United States, South Korea, Japan, China and Russia have been trying for years to persuade North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons programs in return for economic aid.
 Comments from the North's Foreign Ministry spokesman carried by the official KCNA news agency on Thursday also appeared to indicate that the North was threatening to restart Yongbyon if further sanctions were imposed. 
 ''The six-party talks will come to an end,'' the comments said, and ''all the processes for the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula'' would be ''brought back to what used to be before their start and necessary strong measures will be taken.''
 The nuclear complex in Yongbyon, 62 miles north of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, is the North's only known source of weapons-grade plutonium. If North Korea restarts it, it means the end of the most visible achievement the Bush administration had made in dealing with North Korea.
 Under an agreement with the United States, North Korea blew up the cooling tower of Yonbyon's nuclear reactor last June and has disabled other parts of the facility, which American officials say has produced enough plutonium for several nuclear bombs.
 But some key components, including the reactor core, remain intact, and North Korea can also extract more plutonium from thousands of spent nuclear fuel rods it has unloaded from the reactor.
 If North Korea successfully launches its rocket, it would demonstrate that the North has the technological skills to send up a missile that could travel as far as the western United States. Washington and its allies also consider North Korea's missile program an additional threat because the North has sold missile technology to the Middle East and is developing nuclear weapons that could potentially be loaded on its missiles.
 After North Korea detonated its first nuclear device in 2006, the Security Council adopted a resolution banning North Korea from further nuclear and missile tests. Won Tae-je, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, declined to confirm Thursday's news report, but said a missile test would be ''a serious challenge and provocation against the security on the Korean Peninsula and regional stability in Northeast Asia.''
 A successful launching in the first week of April would also give a timely boost to the domestic reputation of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il. The country's Parliament is scheduled to convene April 9 to re-elect him. 
 Mr. Kim, 67, was reported to have suffered a stroke last August. His declining heath has raised questions about his grip on power and the future of his regime, within which no clear successor has emerged.
 Some American officials, including Adm. Timothy Keating, the head of the United States Pacific Command, have said that the United States has the capability to shoot down any North Korean missile heading for American territory.
 But such an intercept is highly unlikely, according to experts in Seoul, in part because Washington is trying to win the release of two American television journalists recently detained by North Korea. The North has charged them with illegally crossing the Chinese-North Korean border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); DISARMAMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NORTHEAST USA (91%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1066 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1983 words

PERSON: John Hope Franklin 

HEADLINE: John Hope Franklin, Scholar of African-American History, Is Dead at 94

BYLINE: By ANDREW L. YARROW

 BODY:
John Hope Franklin, a prolific scholar of African-American history who profoundly influenced thinking about slavery and Reconstruction while helping to further the civil rights struggle, died Wednesday in Durham, N.C. He was 94.
 A spokeswoman for Duke University, where Dr. Franklin taught, said he died of congestive heart failure at the university's hospital.
 During a career of scholarship, teaching and advocacy that spanned more than 70 years, Dr. Franklin was deeply involved in the painful debates that helped reshape America's racial identity, working with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., W. E. B. Du Bois, Thurgood Marshall and other major civil rights figures of the 20th century.
 ''I will always think of John Hope as the historian of the South who grasped the complexity of Southern public life as shaped by the horror of personal slavery,'' said Nell Irvin Painter, the Princeton University historian. ''Franklin was the first great American historian to reckon the price owed in violence, autocracy and militarism.'' 
 It was a theme Dr. Franklin wrestled with into his last years. In an article in The Atlantic Monthly in 2007, he wrote, ''If the American idea was to fight every war from the beginning of colonization to the middle of the 20th century with Jim Crow armed forces, in the belief that this would promote the American idea of justice and equality, then the American idea was an unmitigated disaster and a denial of the very principles that this country claimed as its rightful heritage.''
 Dr. Franklin combined idealism with rigorous research, producing such classic works as ''From Slavery to Freedom: A History of African-Americans,'' first published in 1947. Considered one of the definitive historical surveys of the American black experience, it has sold more than three million copies and has been translated into Japanese, German, French, Chinese and other languages.
 Robert W. Fogel, a Nobel Prize-winning economist at the University of Chicago, called it ''a landmark in the interpretation of American civilization.''
 Dr. Franklin also taught at some of the nation's leading institutions, including Harvard and the University of Chicago in addition to Duke, and as a scholar he personally broke several racial barriers.
 He often argued that historians have an important role in shaping policy, a position he put into practice when he worked with Marshall's team of lawyers in their effort to strike down segregation in the landmark 1954 case Brown v. Board of Education, which outlawed the doctrine of ''separate but equal'' in the nation's public schools.
 ''Using the findings of the historians,'' Dr. Franklin recalled in a 1974 lecture, ''the lawyers argued that the history of segregation laws reveals that their main purpose was to organize the community upon the basis of a superior white and an inferior Negro caste.''
 Dr. Franklin also participated in the 1965 march from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., with Dr. King. 
 ''One might argue that the historian is the conscience of the nation, if honesty and consistency are factors that nurture the conscience,'' Dr. Franklin said. Still, he warned, if scholars engage in advocacy as well as scholarship they must ''make it clear which activity they are engaging in at any given time.''
 President Bill Clinton, in awarding him the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 1995, said Dr. Franklin had never confused ''his role as an advocate with his role as a scholar,'' adding that he had held ''to the conviction that integration is a national necessity.''
 Yet even on so august an occasion, Dr. Franklin could not escape the legacy of discrimination. In a talk he gave in North Carolina 10 years later, he recalled that on the evening before he received the medal at the White House, a woman at a Washington club asked him to fetch her coat, mistaking him for an attendant, and that a man at his hotel had handed him car keys and told him to get his car.
 Dr. Franklin's prestige led Mr. Clinton to select him in 1997 to head the Advisory Board to the President's Initiative on Race, which was formed to promote dialogue about the country's race problems.
 The panel, however, drew criticism. White supremacists protested at some of its forums, and at others American Indians and other minorities complained that they were being left out of the process. A group of conservative scholars repudiated the panel and formed their own.
 And when Dr. Franklin's group finally issued its report after 15 months, the document was criticized as, in one disillusioned scholar's words, ''a list of platitudes.''
 The controversy did little to dim Dr. Franklin's standing as a groundbreaking historian, however. He was the first African-American president of the American Historical Association; the first black department chairman at a predominantly white institution, Brooklyn College; the first black professor to hold an endowed chair at Duke; the first black chairman of the University of Chicago's history department; and the first African-American to present a paper at the segregated Southern Historical Association, one of many groups that later elected him its president. 
 John Hope Franklin was born on Jan. 2, 1915, in Rentiesville, Okla., the son of Buck Colbert Franklin, a lawyer, and Molly Parker Franklin, an elementary school teacher. His parents had moved to Rentiesville, an all-black town, after his father was not allowed to practice law in Louisiana.
 In the 1920s, the family moved to Tulsa, and at age 11 he was taken to hear the great civil rights leader W. E. B. Du Bois, with whom Dr. Franklin later became friends.
 His youth was marked by frequent brushes with racism. He was forced off an all-white train and made to sit in a segregated section of the Tulsa opera house. He watched black neighborhoods of Tulsa -- including the one where his father had his office -- being burned during the infamous 1921 race riot, and he was barred from admission to the University of Oklahoma.
 Instead, Dr. Franklin attended historically black Fisk University in Nashville, receiving his B.A. in 1935. There he met Aurelia E. Whittington, who would become his wife, and sometime editor, of almost 60 years. They had one son, John Whittington Franklin, who survives him. Mrs. Franklin died in 1999.
 In 1997, Dr. Franklin and his son edited an autobiography of his father, Buck Franklin. The book told the tale of free blacks in the Southwestern Indian territories in the late 1800s. Buck Franklin's father, a former slave owned by Indians, became a cowboy and rancher, while Buck, who taught himself law by mail, was an advocate of black pride and nonviolence.
 Before graduating from Fisk, Dr. Franklin considered following his father into law but was persuaded by a white professor, Ted Currier, to make history his field. Professor Currier was said to have borrowed $500 to help Dr. Franklin pursue graduate studies at Harvard. There, Dr. Franklin later recalled, he felt the isolation of being one of only a handful of blacks on campus. He received his master's degree in 1936 and his Ph.D. in 1941.
 Two years later he published his first book, ''The Free Negro in North Carolina, 1790-1860,'' which explored slaveholders' hatred and fear of the quarter-million free blacks in the antebellum South. Almost 20 other books followed, either written or edited by Dr. Franklin.
 In ''The Militant South, 1800-1861'' (1956), he described Southern whites' ''martial spirit'' and ''will to fight,'' which he said gave the pre-Civil-War South its reputation for violence. He approvingly quoted Tocqueville's observation that, because of slavery, ''the citizen of the Southern states becomes a sort of domestic dictator from infancy.''
 In ''Reconstruction After the Civil War'' (1961), he wrote that the end of Reconstruction reforms left ''the South more than ever attached to the values and outlook that had shaped its history.'' He lamented that ''in the postwar years, the Union had not made the achievements of the war a foundation for the healthy advancement of the political, social and economic life'' of the nation.
 ''The Emancipation Proclamation'' (1963), written a century after the proclamation was issued, examined how it evolved in Lincoln's mind and its impact on the Civil War and later generations. Dr. Franklin concluded hopefully, ''Perhaps in its second century, it would give real meaning and purpose to the Declaration of Independence.''
 And in ''The Color Line: Legacy for the 21st Century'' (1993) he argued that race would remain America's great problem in the 21st century.
 Despite his acute awareness of the South's troubled racial history, Dr. Franklin was often angrier about Northern racism and frequently defended his adopted home state, North Carolina. 
 His major biographical project was a 1985 study of George Washington Williams, a self-educated black Civil War veteran and author of a 1,000-page 1882 history of blacks in America from 1619 to 1880. He said he spent nearly 40 years of intermittent research on the project, calling Williams ''one of the small heroes of the world.'' 
 Dr. Franklin's first passion was teaching, and he continued to log classroom time despite his increasing prominence. His teaching career began at Fisk in 1936 and continued over the next 20 years at St. Augustine's College in Raleigh, N.C., North Carolina College in Durham and Howard University in Washington.
 As his first books drew national notice, Dr. Franklin left the world of historically black colleges and went to Brooklyn College, where from 1956 to 1964 he served as chairman of what had been an all-white department. 
 ''Having John Hope Franklin at Brooklyn College in the 1960's was like having a real star in our midst,'' said Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, who was a student of Dr. Franklin's. ''Students who were lucky enough to get into his class bragged about him from morning until night.''
 Dr. Franklin later taught at the University of Chicago before returning to North Carolina in 1982 to teach at Duke and at the Duke Law School.
 Dr. Franklin was also a Fulbright professor in Australia and had teaching stints in China and Zimbabwe. He taught at Cambridge University in England; Harvard; Cornell; the University of Wisconsin; the University of Hawaii; the University of California, Berkeley; and other institutions. Since 1992, he had been James B. Duke professor emeritus of history at Duke. A John Hope Franklin Research Center was established in his honor at Duke. 
 At his home in Durham, Dr. Franklin continued a lifelong hobby of cultivating hundreds of orchids; one species was named for him, the Phalaenopsis John Hope Franklin.
 His honors, awards, and professional and civic affiliations were so numerous as to fill several single-spaced pages of a long curriculum vitae. He received more than 100 honorary degrees.
 In 2006, he received the John W. Kluge Prize for the Study of Humanities in a ceremony at the Library of Congress. In his prepared remarks he said he had long struggled ''to understand how it is that we could seek a land of freedom for the people of Europe and, at the very same time, establish a social and economic system that enslaved people who happen not to be from Europe.''
 ''I have struggled to understand,'' he went on, ''how it is that we could fight for independence and, at the very same time, use that newly won independence to enslave many who had joined in the fight for independence. 
 ''As a student of history, I have attempted to explain it historically, but that explanation has not been all that satisfactory. That has left me no alternative but to use my knowledge of history, and whatever other knowledge and skills I have, to present the case for change in keeping with the express purpose of attaining the promised goals of equality for all peoples.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Hope Franklin took part in the 1965 civil rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''MIRROR TO AMERICA'')
 Speaking on race in 2005, with former President Bill Clinton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (94%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SLAVERY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); HEART DISEASE (57%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (88%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (67%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1067 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Homeless in Sacramento Tent City Will Be Moved to State Fairground

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
After weeks in the national spotlight, the tent city in Sacramento is closing its run.
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mayor Kevin Johnson said Wednesday that they would move the riverside encampment's 125 residents -- down from a peak of 200 -- to the state's fairground until at least July. The move, according to the governor, will give the homeless a ''dry shelter, reliable health care and warm meals.'' 
 All of which should be good news to homeless people like Michael Borchardt, a former truck driver who bottomed out in Sacramento last year. He watched with disdain as the encampment -- known as ''the wastelands'' among those living there -- became a symbol of homelessness across the country following a recent segment on ''The Oprah Winfrey Show.'' Other national and international television and news crews followed, each looking to document the down-and-out of the American recession.
 ''We're a circus for sightseers,'' said Mr. Borchardt, 29, who added a few unprintable adjectives to his comments. ''People are coming through here with cameras and then just walking away. We had never had sightseers before.''
 Mr. Johnson, a former NBA basketball player elected to office last year, had taken to giving tours of the camp, which sits on a rugged chunk of land beneath a crisscross of electric wires. On one recent walkthrough, he said a smaller version of the tent city had been ''swept under the rug'' for years, but had grown in recent months as a building bust pushed normally blue-collar people to the brink. 
 ''We're seeing an expanded definition of the homeless population, meaning home-owners and families that were intact who've lost their jobs and homes,'' said Mr. Johnson, standing on a levee above the encampment.
 That includes Tina Garland, 50, a truck driver who came to Sacramento from Indiana two years ago looking for work, but found none. So she moved to the tent city, where she lives in a tidy tent with her husband. Ms. Garland, who has bi-polar disorder, said she did not mind the attention, but really did not understand it.
 ''Oprah, CNN, a Swedish newspaper, the Today morning show, and, let's see, who was here this morning? Some wireless worldwide something,'' she said. ''Oh, my God. I'm just homeless.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); HOMEOWNERS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%); OPRAH WINFREY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1068 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: To: Ex-V.P., A.I.G. From: The Taxpayer

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Dear A.I.G., I Quit!'' (Op-Ed, March 25):
 Jake DeSantis, the injured A.I.G. executive vice president who exercised his right of quitting his job with a dramatic e-mail message to his ungrateful boss, still does not get it. Millions, just as virtuous and hard-working as Mr. DeSantis, did not have the luxury of quitting; they were fired like dogs. 
 I am happy that the DeSantis family was not a victim of the A.I.G. malfeasance and has kept its home. Across America, in scenes worthy of ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' people must squeeze their possessions into their cars or -- if they can afford them -- into storage units, under the eyes of their children because, unlike Mr. DeSantis, they have also lost their homes.
 Michel Dedina Imperial Beach, Calif., March 25, 2009 
 To the Editor: 
 Like Jake DeSantis, I come from a solidly working-class background. I am a professional for whom a 10-plus-hour day away from my family is not unusual. Unlike Mr. DeSantis, I earn in the mid-s$40.
 The $742,000 ''retention payment'' Mr. DeSantis received for one year's work is more than I have earned in my working life. I also worked hard during the economic boom. Somehow, I cannot afford to write a showy resignation like his; I must keep working. 
 A.I.G. is not our economic problem. It is a symbol, as Mr. DeSantis now is a symbol. While most Americans dread unemployment, his ability to choose unemployment freely seems perverse. The problem is not Mr. DeSantis's bonus, or A.I.G., but the stagnancy of most Americans' wages over decades while compensation for people like Mr. DeSantis has surged. The problem is income disparity.
 Steven P. Millies Aiken, S.C., March 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Jake DeSantis's letter of resignation to Edward M. Liddy, the chief executive of A.I.G., was breathtaking. His was indeed a profile in courage.
 With obvious deep sorrow, Mr. DeSantis was not afraid to put his finger on the wound and name names. With his firm example he has bolstered the courage and determination of the American people in these difficult times. He still has much to offer.
 Gino Dalpiaz Chicago, March 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 The letter of resignation to A.I.G. from Jake DeSantis argues that those employees not responsible for the company's excesses and meltdown are being deprived of promised bonus money and unfairly targeted by politicians and the public. One can easily agree with some of that, especially Congress's holier-than-thou attitude about the spending of public money. 
 But the working stiffs of the country still don't get how someone is entitled to a bonus when his unscrupulous employer nearly brings down a national economy. 
 Is the performance of A.I.G. completely unrelated to the compensation of its employees, or is $165 million an extremely low bonus pool that correlates to A.I.G.'s huge financial losses?
 John Vasi Santa Barbara, Calif., March 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 At last! It's about time that one of the targets of the A.I.G. witch hunt stood up and defended him or herself, since Edward M. Liddy, the chief executive of A.I.G., has conspicuously failed to do so, and the news media have failed utterly to tell the story of those who are working to salvage what they can for the company and the American taxpayer. 
 I applaud Jake DeSantis for sharing his resignation letter with the public. I also offer my condolences to Mr. DeSantis, whose only failing seems to be having trusted his employer to live up to its end of the bargain.
 There's a difference between the people who made the mess at A.I.G. and those who rolled up their sleeves and went to work to clean it up. No one seems to have noticed that crucial distinction.
 My anger at grandstanding politicians, attorneys general and double-crossing bureaucrats knows no bounds when it causes capable people to throw up their hands and leave. Our elected representatives have now taken out a player who could have helped minimize the damage that I as a taxpayer will suffer because of the A.I.G. mess. I hope they're satisfied. 
 Thomas A. Thompson Latham, N.Y., March 25, 2009
 The writer is a strategic and financial adviser involved in corporate management and merger-acquisition consulting.
 To the Editor:
 I read with interest the resignation letter of Jake DeSantis. He makes a strong case for understanding that not all A.I.G. employees are responsible for the financial manipulations that have contributed to the world economic meltdown. 
 I think that providing insight into the behavior of those individuals who were responsible for the derivatives operations would go a long way in tamping down the pitch-fork-wielding populist rage that is distracting both political leaders and anxious citizens from the real problems facing the Obama administration as it seeks solutions to a very complex problem.
 Jesse Silverglate Pembroke Pines, Fla., March 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It should be satisfying that Jake DeSantis is willing to give his A.I.G. bonus to charity so that others far less fortunate than he will receive at least some benefit from the A.I.G. debacle, but his unwarranted self-pity and sense of entitlement truly poison the gesture. 
 He is not making anyone on self-serving Wall Street look any better with this tirade.
 In these economic times we will all be ruined if we view giving as a painful sacrifice. To Mr. DeSantis, Wall Street and conservatives everywhere I offer this paraphrased proverb: There are those who are not pained by giving, nor do they seek joy. They give as naturally as the flowers in the meadow breathe their fragrance into the air. 
 Laura Oltman Phillipsburg, N.J., March 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Jake DeSantis holds that employees who were not directly responsible for A.I.G.'s ''meltdown'' should no more be ''cheated'' out of their bonuses than ''a plumber should be cheated after he has fixed the pipes but a careless electrician causes a fire that burns down the house.''
 His effort to draw an analogy between Wall Street millionaires and the blue-collar workers who build and repair their homes is not only extremely self-serving but also ignores the obvious fact that unlike A.I.G. executives, who by definition rise and fall together, the plumber and the electrician are independent contractors who bear no legal relationship to each other. 
 Andrew Schrank Albuquerque, March 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Thanks to Jake DeSantis for bringing us his supersized version of the American dream. 
 I've labored my life under the illusion that the American dream held that if you worked hard, saved diligently and invested prudently, you stood a good chance of enjoying a modest retirement. Mr. DeSantis and the spectacularly overpaid financial class he represents used the liquidity provided by us ordinary savers and investors to achieve this bloated version of their American dream.
 I hope the contribution of his bonus to charitable causes eases his transition to a comfortable early retirement. The rest of us will keep working for our own delayed dream.
 Mark Carney South Bend, Ind., March 25, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MISCONDUCT (71%); BONUS PAY (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1069 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Optimism Grows in Congress for Retooled Budget's Prospects

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats began advancing retooled versions of President Obama's budget on Wednesday as the president visited the Capitol to urge senators to preserve his initiatives on health care, energy and education.
 Despite some apprehension among centrist Senate Democrats about the level of spending and future deficits, Mr. Obama's appeal seemed to find a receptive audience. Democratic senators indicated increasing optimism about the prospects for approval of the fiscal blueprint after they pared spending and made other adjustments. 
 Just before midnight, the House Budget Committee voted, 24 to 15 along party lines, to approve its spending plan, sending it to the full House for consideration next week.While both the House and Senate plans protect the president's top priorities, neither would extend a middle-class tax cut championed by Mr. Obama beyond 2010 unless a source of revenue to pay for it is identified. 
 And though Mr. Obama laid out specific plans to raise $634 billion over 10 years for a down payment on national health care reform, lawmakers provided only a framework for the White House and Congress to move forward, provided that the health initiative does not raise the debt.
 Nevertheless, Democrats said they shared Mr. Obama's priorities.
 ''His major objectives -- green jobs, climate change-global warming, health care reform -- that's not just his agenda, that's our agenda,'' said Senator Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, who is part of a new group of moderate Democrats seeking to champion fiscal restraint.
 Still, some Democrats said they remained concerned about the spending and tax proposals tied to Mr. Obama's ambitious domestic agenda. Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, said he could not support the budget in its current form, though he said the new Senate proposal with its lower deficit figure was a step in the right direction.
 ''But I don't think that's an ending point from my standpoint,'' Mr. Nelson said.
 Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, also said he was uncertain whether he could support the plan, though he commended the president on his presentation on Wednesday.
 In the House, the plan introduced Wednesday by Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina and chairman of the Budget Committee, retained more of the nonmilitary domestic spending sought by Mr. Obama, who requested $540 billion for 2010, a 10 percent increase. The House cut that amount by $7 billion and the Senate by $15 billion, a difference that will have to be resolved. 
 Both the House and Senate plans would reduce the projected deficit of $1.7 trillion for the current fiscal year by at least half by 2013. 
 The House plan also includes a procedural maneuver that would skirt Senate filibusters on sweeping health care and education initiatives, though it does not allow a similar shortcut for any energy proposal. The Senate has so far not embraced the procedural tactic, but pressure is building on party leaders to do so. 
 Republicans continued to attack the budget proposals as adding excessive debt to future generations, but acknowledged they might not be able to stand in the way of the Democratic plan.
 ''As you know, the budget process only requires 51 votes, and they have 58 votes, so the chances of our defeating this are fairly slim,'' Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, senior Republican on the Budget Committee, told reporters. ''But what I think what we need to do is make it clear to the American people what's at risk here.''
 Both the House and Senate Budget Committees expect to finish their budget deliberations by Friday, sending the measures to each chamber's floor next week.
 Congressional Democrats and representatives of the Obama administration sought to play down the differences in the Congressional budget plans and the outline presented by the president late last month, saying the revisions by lawmakers protected the core elements of Mr. Obama's agenda.
 ''The resolutions may not be identical twins to what the president submitted, but they are certainly brothers that look an awful lot alike,'' Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said in a conference call with journalists.
 Republicans were dismissive. 
 ''Today, America is at a critical juncture in our history brought about by a financial crisis and a deep recession that are hurting the American people,'' said Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, senior Republican on the Budget Committee. ''But instead of focusing on solving the problem, this budget exploits it to justify a huge expansion in government.''
 Democrats countered that they had inherited a fiscal nightmare from the Bush administration and were taking steps to steady the economy by investing in domestic policy and rolling back Bush-era tax cuts that they said had favored the wealthy.
 ''The Bush tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 were advertised to create a booming economy and, in fact, all they did was drop the stock market by 50 percent, create one of the poorest job-creating periods in history and, most importantly, dramatically exacerbate the difference between the very wealthy Americans and everyone else,'' said Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky and a member of the Budget Committee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama with Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, during his visit to Capitol Hill on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Senators Judd Gregg, left, and Kent Conrad, center, at a Budget Committee meeting Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX LAW (79%); APPROVALS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); FILIBUSTER (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); KENT CONRAD (59%); TOM CARPER (59%); EVAN BAYH (59%); BEN NELSON (59%); JUDD GREGG (59%); JOHN SPRATT (59%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1070 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: The Fierce Urgency of Peace

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
Pressure on President Obama to recast the failed American approach to Israel-Palestine is building from former senior officials whose counsel he respects.
 Following up on a letter dated Nov. 6, 2008, that was handed to Obama late last year by Paul Volcker, now a senior economic adviser to the president, these foreign policy mandarins have concluded a ''Bipartisan Statement on U.S. Middle East Peacemaking'' that should become an essential template.
 Deploring ''seven years of absenteeism'' under the Bush administration, they call for intense American mediation in pursuit of a two-state solution, ''a more pragmatic approach toward Hamas,'' and eventual U.S. leadership of a multinational force to police transitional security between Israel and Palestine. 
 The 10 signatories -- of both the four-page letter and the report -- include Volcker himself, former national security advisers Brent Scowcroft and Zbigniew Brzezinski, former Senator Chuck Hagel, former World Bank President James Wolfensohn, former U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, former Congressman Lee Hamilton and former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations Thomas Pickering.
 My understanding is their thinking coincides in significant degree with that of both George Mitchell, Obama's Middle East envoy, and Gen. James Jones, Obama's national security adviser who worked on security issues with Israelis and Palestinians in the last year of the Bush administration, an often frustrating experience.
 This overlap gives the report particular significance.
 Of Hamas, the target of Israel's futile pounding of Gaza, the eminent Group of 10 writes that, ''Shutting out the movement and isolating Gaza has only made it stronger and Fatah weaker.''
 They urge a fundamental change: ''Shift the U.S. objective from ousting Hamas to modifying its behavior, offer it inducements that will enable its more moderate elements to prevail, and cease discouraging third parties from engaging with Hamas in ways that might clarify the movement's view and test its behavior.'' 
 Although this falls short of my own recommendation that the United States itself -- rather than European allies -- engage with moderate elements of Hamas, such a shift is critical.
 Without Hamas's involvement, there can be no Middle East peace. Mahmoud Abbas, the Fatah leader and president of the Palestinian Authority, is a beleaguered figure.
 The report goes further: ''Cease discouraging Palestinian national reconciliation and make clear that a government that agrees to a cease-fire with Israel, accepts President Mahmoud Abbas as the chief negotiator and commits to abiding by the results of a national referendum on a future peace agreement would not be boycotted or sanctioned.''
 In other words, stop being hung up on prior Hamas recognition of Israel and watch what it does rather than what it says. If Hamas is part of, and remains part of, a Palestinian unity government that makes a peace deal with Israel, that's workable.
 Henry Siegman, the president of the U.S./Middle East Project, whose chairman is Scowcroft and board includes all 10 signatories, told me that he met recently with Khaled Meshal, the political director of Hamas in Damascus.
 Meshal told him, and put in writing, that although Hamas would not recognize Israel, it would remain in a Palestinian national unity government that reached a referendum-endorsed peace settlement with Israel.
 De facto, rather than de jure, recognition can be a basis for a constructive relationship, as Israel knows from the mutual benefits of its shah-era dealings with Iran.
 Israeli governments have negotiated a two-state solution although they included religious parties that do not recognize Palestinians' right to statehood.
 ''But,'' Siegman said, ''if moderates within Hamas are to prevail, a payoff is needed for their moderation. And until the U.S. provides one, there will be no Palestinian unity government.''
 The need for that incentive is reflected in the four core proposals of what the authors call ''a last chance for a two-state Israel-Palestine agreement.'' Taken together, they constitute the start of an essential rebalancing of America's Bush-era Israel-can-do-no-wrong policy.
 The first is clear U.S. endorsement of a two-state solution based on the lines of June 4, 1967, with minor, reciprocal, agreed land swaps where necessary. That means removing all West Bank settlements except in some heavily populated areas abutting Jerusalem -- and, of course, halting the unacceptable ongoing construction of new ones.
 The second is establishing Jerusalem as home to the Israeli and Palestinian capitals. Jewish neighborhoods would be under Israeli sovereignty and Arab neighborhoods under Palestinian sovereignty, with special arrangements for the Old City providing unimpeded access to holy sites for all communities.
 The third is major financial compensation and resettlement assistance in a Palestinian state for refugees, coupled with some formal Israeli acknowledgment of responsibility for the problem, but no generalized right of return. 
 The fourth is the creation of an American-led, U.N.-mandated multinational force for a transitional period of up to 15 years leading to full Palestinian control of their security.
 Obama has told Volcker that he would, in time, meet with the signatories of the letter. He should do so once an Israeli government is in place. And then he should incorporate their ideas in laying out the new realism of American commitment to Palestine and the new price of American commitment to Israel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); HAMAS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); AL FATAH (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BOYCOTTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JAMES L JONES (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1071 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage In Vermont Faces Veto By Governor

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont said Wednesday that he would veto a same-sex marriage bill if it reached his desk, setting a new hurdle for a measure that had been moving swiftly through the legislature. 
 But Mr. Douglas, a Republican, also said that ''legislative leaders would not have advanced this bill if they did not have the votes to override a veto.'' 
 Mr. Douglas opposes same-sex marriage but for weeks declined to say whether he would veto the bill, which the Democratic leaders of the Senate and House have embraced. The Senate overwhelmingly approved the bill Friday, and a House committee is hearing testimony on it this week.
 In 2000, Vermont became the first state to allow civil unions for gay couples, which give them virtually all of the state rights and benefits of married couples. With the new measure, Vermont would be the third state, after Massachusetts and Connecticut, to allow same-sex marriage. 
 Mr. Douglas said in a statement that it was not his normal policy to announce whether he would veto a bill before it passed the legislature, but that the debate around same-sex marriage had grown too intense to avoid. 
 ''During these extraordinary times,'' he said, ''the speculation about my decision has added to the anxiety of the moment and further diverts attention from our most pressing issues, and I cannot allow that to happen.''
 Mr. Douglas, who has said civil unions provide enough rights and protections to gay couples, said he hoped his announcement would speed the debate so lawmakers could turn to more pressing matters, like the economy. 
 Some legislators reacted with disappointment to the governor's statement, and said they were not confident about having enough votes to override a veto. 
 ''For him to make that announcement before the legislative process is completed is really undermining democracy in some respects,'' said Speaker Shap Smith.
 Mr. Smith, Democrat of Morristown, said it was not yet clear how many House members would vote in favor of the bill; in the Senate, it passed 26 to 4. Democrats overwhelmingly control both chambers.
 Beth Robinson, chairwoman of the Vermont Freedom to Marry Task Force, said she and other supporters of the bill would lobby Mr. Douglas to change his mind.
 ''I don't write anybody off,'' Ms. Robinson said. ''There are thousands of voters who are going to be really disappointed and try to engage with the governor on this right away.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont speaking on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEB WALLACE-BRODEUR/THE TIMES ARGUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (94%); MARRIAGE (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); APPROVALS (77%)

PERSON: JIM DOUGLAS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1072 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Detail Plan to Rein In Finance World

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and LOUISE STORY; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington, and Louise Story from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration will detail on Thursday a wide-ranging plan to overhaul financial regulation by subjecting hedge funds and traders of exotic financial instruments, now among the biggest and most freewheeling players on Wall Street, to potentially strict new government supervision, officials said.
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, will outline the broad revamping of the regulatory system, which goes further than expected, in a hearing on Thursday. He is expected to say that the new rules are necessary to prevent a repeat of the excesses that nearly wrecked the global financial system and plunged the economy into a recession. 
 The plan, which would require Congressional approval, would give the government vast new powers over ''systemically important'' banks and other financial institutions that are so big that their collapse would jeopardize the economy as a whole.
 The government would have the power to peer into the inner workings of companies that currently escape most federal supervision -- insurance companies like the American International Group, multibillion-dollar hedge funds like the Citadel Group and private equity firms like the Carlyle Group or Kohlberg, Kravis & Roberts.
 If regulators decided that a company had become ''too big to fail,'' as was the case with A.I.G. in September, they would subject it to much stricter capital requirements than smaller rivals and much closer scrutiny of its borrowing levels and its trading partners, or counterparties.
 But the most striking new proposals, and the ones that may provoke the most heated opposition from the industry, would regulate so-called private pools of capital -- hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds -- and the gigantic market in financial derivatives, including instruments like credit-default swaps, the insurancelike instruments that allow investors to hedge against bond defaults. 
 Hedge funds and private equity funds manage money for wealthy individuals and institutions like pension funds. They operate almost entirely outside the regulation of either the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Federal Reserve.
 Under the administration proposal, hedge fund, private equity and venture capital fund advisers would for the first time have to register with the S.E.C. They would be required to provide the government -- on a confidential basis -- information on how much they borrow to leverage their investments as well as information about their investors and trading partners.
 The S.E.C. would then share those reports with a new ''systemic risk regulator.'' At least for the moment, Mr. Geithner is ducking the crucial question of who the powerful risk regulator should be, a contentious issue among Democratic lawmakers.
 Hedge funds have generally not been implicated in the financial collapse, which stemmed primarily from reckless mortgage lending and exotic financial instruments tied to subprime mortgages. 
 But the hedge fund industry for years has fought even minimal federal regulation, like S.E.C. registration. Now, a growing number of lawmakers and policy makers are worried that hedge funds have become too big a part of the financial market to operate without government monitoring. 
 Administration officials also want to prevent a repeat of the gigantic Ponzi scheme perpetrated by Bernard L. Madoff.
 John A. Paulson, a hedge fund manager who made billions by betting against the housing market, said in an interview on Tuesday that the main goal of any regulation of hedge funds should be to protect investors from frauds like that of Mr. Madoff.
 ''We're for anything that protects investors,'' Mr. Paulson said. While he acknowledged that some hedge funds might have relied too heavily on leverage to improve their returns, he added that ''there hasn't been one problem at all to global systemic risk in the U.S. and abroad from a hedge fund.'' 
 Leon G. Cooperman, a longtime hedge fund manger who runs Omega Advisors, said that new regulations were not needed and that he found the call for new rules to be mere finger-pointing.
 ''I'm already heavily regulated,'' Mr. Cooperman said, saying that his fund was subject to oversight from the S.E.C., the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Fed and other organizations. 
 ''The truth of the matter is, most major hedge funds are registered with the S.E.C., they are regulated with the C.F.T.C., and they are subject to Federal Reserve margin requirements,'' he said, referring to the Fed's rules that require all investors to set aside funds when buying securities on credit. ''The regulatory system is already in place. Let them enforce what they have.''
 There is likely to be an even bigger fight over the proposal to regulate financial derivative products. Some derivatives, like stock options and interest rate futures, are already regulated because they are traded on exchanges like the Chicago Board of Trade.
 But the administration would regulate trading in more exotic derivatives that trade privately, like the credit-default swaps that were used both to hedge against and to speculate on high-risk mortgage-backed securities. These more exotic products have been traded almost entirely in the informal, over-the-counter market that lies outside regulatory scrutiny.
 The administration would require that all standardized derivatives be traded through a regulated clearinghouse. Traders would be required to provide documentation on their collateral and borrowings. They would also be subject to new eligibility requirements, and their trading and settlement practices would be subject to new standards.
 Mr. Geithner is not expected to provide any details on Thursday for how all this will work. But the proposals are all but certain to provoke criticism from all sides -- traders who say the rules are too intrusive and policy experts who say the approach is too vague.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); INSURANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); CG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1073 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Schott's Vocab

BYLINE: By BEN SCHOTT

 BODY:
This week, The Times introduces a blog by Ben Schott that will explore the vocabulary of current events -- some serious, others frivolous, some neologized, others newly newsworthy.
 Each day, Schott's Vocab will track the words and phrases that encapsulate the times in which we live or shed light on a story of note.
If language is the archives of history, as Emerson believed, then Schott's Vocab is an attempt to index those archives on the fly. 
 Below are a few select entries from the blog. Readers are invited to visit Schott's Vocab and submit words of note.
 Unbwogable
 Unshakable and indomitable - from the Kenyan term bwogo, meaning shake or scare.
 It seems that Barack Obama's reputation for cool-headed indefatigability has a description suited to his Kenyan roots. On October 12, as an Obama victory seemed increasingly likely, the front page of Kenya's Sunday Nation screamed ''Unbwogable!'' this was, according to Global Journalist magazine, the most appropriate Luo word for ''the man most Kenyans fervently want to be the next president of the United States.''
 Pessimism Porn
 Titillatingly bleak media reports on the state of the economic collapse.
 Hugo Lindgren mused on the illicit thrills of bad news in New York magazine: ''My wife busted me again the other day. I had slipped away from her and the kids into the fantasy world of the Web. But not the kind of fantasy your probably thinking of. This was pessimism porn. A friend had turned me on to a futurist named Gerald Celente, who anticipated the Asian financial crisis and other calamities. Now, Celente says, the U.S. is heading for a middle-class tax revolt, food riots and a Central Park engulfed by shantytowns.''
 Sea Kittens
 A bizarre euphemism for fish advocated by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals in an attempt to persuade children that fish are too cuddly to eat.
 Asid Batri
 A Haitian term for the pain of starvation, from the Creole for battery acid.
 An article in The Boston Globe highlighted the horrific effects of soaring food prices in Haiti: The country is ''so starved as to need a new phrase to describe their hunger pains - it is like drinking bleach, they say.''
 Haiti's poor have adopted terms like ''asid batri'' and ''Clorox'' to characterize hunger akin to acid burning their stomach walls.
 Recession Beard
 Credit-crunchy facial hair inspired by the economic downturn.
 Interview Without Coffee
 British Army euphemism for a dressing down by a senior officer.
 After it was revealed that Prince Harry, as a 21-year-old officer cadet on exercise in Cyprus in 2006, used the terms ''Paki'' and ''raghead'' to describe two of his comrades, The Guardian reported that the Army planned to deal with the incident in its usual way: Prince Harry faces the prospect of what in polite army circles is called an interview without coffee and in less polite ones ''a bit of a bollocking.'' The Army Rumour Service blog says an ''interview without coffee'' is less severe than a ''carpet parade,'' which for officers is ''normally preceded by the words 'Your hat, my office,''' and for privates with the words 'Soldier-and-Escort, by-the-right, quick-march ''' In the Royal Air Force, one is summoned to a ''meeting with tea and no biscuits, or even no tea and no biscuits, depending on the gravity of your crime.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); STARVATION (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (68%); FOOD PRICES (63%); ARMIES (63%); ANIMALS (62%); CATS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (50%); RIOTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (68%); PRINCE HARRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) HAITI (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1074 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Could It Really Be Him? Yeah, Probably

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 IT has been only two months since the Obamas moved into the White House, but here in the nation's capital, some people are already asking: Have you bumped into your president and first lady yet?
 This is no idle question. During the Bush years, Washington got used to a homebody president who preferred bringing friends into the Executive Mansion to venturing outside it. But these days, President Obama and his wife, Michelle, are popping up all over this city.
 Like basketball? There was Mr. Obama sitting courtside recently alongside astonished fans at the Verizon Center as he cheered on the Chicago Bulls in a losing battle against the Washington Wizards.
 Enjoy the performing arts? The Obamas have been to the Kennedy Center twice, once to see the Alvin Ailey dance troupe -- with daughters Malia, 10, and Sasha, 7 -- and once for a musical tribute to Senator Edward M. Kennedy. 
 How about a tasty meal? The Obamas have enjoyed white-tablecloth dining at Equinox, Bobby Van's Steakhouse, B. Smith's and Georgia Brown's, and street-corner casual at Ben's Chili Bowl and Five Guys Burgers and Fries. 
 They have gone to parent-teacher conferences, school sporting events and visited working-class and gentrifying communities that have rarely served as stomping grounds for American presidents and first ladies -- speaking to students at a charter school in a predominantly Hispanic neighborhood, and worshiping in a black church, among other activities. (The president and friends also tossed a basketball around at a city-run recreation center.)
 ''Everywhere you go, you're wondering whether or not you'll run into them,'' said Washington's mayor, Adrian M. Fenty, who has lunched with the president and first lady.
 Political observers are still debating whether this out-and-about style simply reflects the personal inclinations of the Obamas or some political calculus (or both). But one thing is clear: No other modern president has reached out so widely to so many corners of the city, says Doris Kearns Goodwin, a presidential historian.
 That is no surprise to friends of the first family. The Obamas, after all, are city people, former community organizers who have long felt at home in the urban landscape. Mr. Obama is the first president since Richard M. Nixon to be elected while living in a city neighborhood, in his case, Chicago's racially and economically diverse Hyde Park. And the Obamas are now eager to explore the city beyond the White House walls. 
 ''They want their lives not to be confined solely to the White House but rather to become a part of the urban, vibrant fabric of D.C.,'' Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to the president and a close family friend, said in an interview. 
 Of course, the social schedule of the president and first lady is also a powerful political tool, a way to nurture political alliances and to cultivate political narratives. The Obamas can enjoy their time out on the town while, at the same time, reaping potential dividends by reinforcing their promise to bring change to Washington and honing an image of openness and accessibility, some Washington watchers say. 
 ''Let's face it: It's very good for getting re-elected,'' Letitia Baldrige, the White House social secretary to Jacqueline Kennedy, said of the Obamas' socializing. ''It's a great bank of good will in which they're making deposits every day.''
 Political analysts say that the images of Mr. Obama hooting and hollering during a basketball game, eating a hot dog at Ben's Chili Bowl and watching the ballet with his wife and daughters -- pastimes routinely broadcast to a national audience -- may humanize a politician who is sometimes viewed as too cerebral and distant. 
 Dee Dee Myers, a former press secretary for President Clinton, said the outings allow Mr. Obama to project ''an accessible glamour'' and to convey a message of hope during bleak economic times. (She said that even the gregarious Clintons never got out this much.)
 ''It's very humanizing and very encouraging to people,'' Ms. Myers said. ''And it's valuable for him politically.''
 Some warn, however, that such a schedule can also carry political risks, particularly if it undermines the mystique of the presidency, the image of power and command that a president needs to enact an ambitious agenda. Americans love the idea of the common man in a position of political power. (Think Jimmy Stewart in ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.'') But they can also lose some respect if a politician seems too familiar. (Think Jimmy Carter in his cardigan.)
 ''Every once in a while it's great, but there's a chance of overexposing yourself socially,'' said Bradley A. Blakeman, a former aide to President George W. Bush. ''People scratch their heads and say, ''Doesn't the president have other things to do, especially in a crisis?' ''
 It is certainly a shift from historical precedent. In the 18th and 19th centuries, Washington was mostly viewed as a humid, uninviting town that presidents escaped from when they could. 
 In modern times, said Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian, the notion of presidential engagement with Washington has typically meant ''going to parties in Georgetown or making friends on Capitol Hill, in other words, engaging with the permanent political establishment here.''
 ''This is really different,'' said Mr. Beschloss of the Obamas forays into casual restaurants and working-class neighborhoods. 
 The Obamas know that it's different. As the first African-American couple in the White House, they want to reach beyond the prosperous, predominantly white corridors of Washington.
 ''We were taught you have to get to know the community you're in, and you have to be a part of that community,'' Mrs. Obama said during a visit to Mary's Center, a health clinic that serves a predominantly Hispanic neighborhood. ''D.C. is our community now, and it's our home.''
 THE president says he hopes to serve as a bridge in a town long divided between the haves and have-nots. ''I want to see if we can bring those two Washingtons together,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview on the ABC program ''This Week with George Stephanopoulos.''
 For ordinary people, the unexpected encounters with the new president and first lady are astonishing. 
 Joe Clark, a corporate lawyer who sat near the president at the basketball game, described the experience as ''surreal.''
 ''I couldn't believe that he was so accessible that I could literally shake his hand and heckle him about needing to suit up because his team was losing,'' Mr. Clark said.
 That is not to say that the Obamas can live anything close to a normal life here. 
 ''There really is no going out in public and blending in anymore,'' said Ari Fleischer, a former press secretary to Mr. Bush, describing the challenges facing any president. ''That really is one of the burdens of the job. You go into the restaurant and everyone stands up and applauds. You always have to shake hands.''
 ''But when you're sitting at the table, either out of fear of the Secret Service, respect for the office or old-fashioned decency, people usually leave you alone,'' Mr. Fleischer said. ''You still can have a nice meal with your friends.'' 
 The Obamas are clearly scoping out varied restaurants and places to visit. 
 Mr. Fenty said it the president who suggested lunching at Ben's Chili Bowl, a well-known black-owned restaurant. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Washington's delegate to Congress, said Mrs. Obama suggested lunch at B. Smith's, also black-owned, a Southern-stylerestaurant near the Capitol.
 Mrs. Obama and her staff also visited Miriam's Kitchen, a soup kitchen, where the first lady bumped into Bill Richardson, a 46-year-old homeless man. Mr. Richardson was so stunned that he could barely stammer thank you as Mrs. Obama scooped a helping of mushroom risotto onto his plate this month.
 ''I was expecting some lunch, but this is the president's wife; this is her right here,'' said Mr. Richardson, who said he planned to get to a phone as soon as he could. ''I'm going to be like, 'Mom, you're never going to guess who I've seen.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture credit last Thursday with an article about the Obamas' frequent appearances outside the White House misspelled the surname of The Associated Press photographer who took the picture of Michelle Obama with Jill Biden. He is Pablo Martinez Monsivais, not Monsivias.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GO BULLS!: President Obama's team lost
it may not have bothered 5-year-old Nick Aiello. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOLLY RILEY/REUTERS (UNITED STATES) (pg.E1)
THEIR NEW HOMETOWN: President Obama at a casual D.C. spot (top)
Michelle Obama with Jill Biden, center, and Michelle Fenty
and helping at a soup kitchen (left). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ASSOCIATED PRESS/PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVIAS
 WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); DANCE (69%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (67%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (65%); HISTORY (64%); SPORTS (51%); SPORTS & RECREATION (51%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: B SMITH'S (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (83%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (56%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1075 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Among Activist Investors, a New Hesitancy

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
LAST summer, Christopher Hohn's powerful hedge fund, the Children's Investment Fund, got just what it wanted.
 The fund, known as T.C.I., had prevailed in a bitter proxy battle with the railroad giant CSX Corporation, winning Mr. Hohn and three allies seats on the CSX board and beating back a CSX suit that accused T.C.I. of securities violations.
The victory was short-lived. Shares of CSX plummeted, contributing to a 43 percent loss in T.C.I.'s main fund in 2008. Mr. Hohn announced that he would not seek re-election to the CSX board this year, making it easier for him to sell off T.C.I.'s stake, though Mr. Hohn said in a telephone interview that there was no connection between the two decisions. 
 He added that T.C.I. expected to remain a shareholder in CSX and that T.C.I.'s position in CSX had been significantly hedged with bets against other railroad companies.
 Like many activist investors -- those who buy stakes in underperforming companies and press for actions that they hope will increase the stock price -- Mr. Hohn has been humbled by the global financial crisis. 
 ''Quite frankly, activism is hard,'' Mr. Hohn said in an interview last year in Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine. As recently as a year ago, a fund could buy a stake in a company, demand a sale or a spinoff and watch the stock price rise. Such tactics do not work nearly as well in a credit-starved world where buyers are scarce and share prices have fallen to new depths.
 ''Absolutely, these guys are running into headwinds,'' said Michael Armstrong, who studies activism for Monitor Group, an advisory firm in Cambridge, Mass.
 Well-known activist investors like Carl C. Icahn and William A. Ackman have been forced to pull back from starting campaigns and to abandon strategies that once turned quick profits. The number of new activist campaigns dropped by nearly 80 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 from the comparable period in 2007, according to data from Thomson Reuters, and activist investors made 59 new investments last month, compared with 87 a year earlier, according to Hedge Fund Solutions. 
 One reason is that activist funds have been nursing their wounds since dismal returns led investors to withdraw their money. A majority of institutional investors surveyed last month by Deutsche Bank said they planned to cut their allocations to activist investments. 
 ''These activists either have other fish to fry or their positions have come down so far that they are hesitant to open up another front or engage in another battle,'' said Glenn S. Curtis, an analyst at Thomson Reuters. 
 Mr. Icahn, called ''the hottest investor in America'' by Fortune magazine in 2007, was plagued with year-end losses of 36 percent on his investments in 2008. A billionaire, he recently invested $500 million of his own cash in his hedge fund, Icahn Capital, allowing it to pay people who wanted their money back instead of having to raise the cash by selling assets in this bad market.
 When Mr. Icahn, 73, bought stock in Yahoo and Motorola and won seats on both companies' boards last year, his critics said he knew little about those technology giants. Now his investors are feeling the pain.
 In a February letter to investors, Mr. Icahn said the losses were merely ''temporary value declines'' and called Motorola, which lost 38 percent of its value in the fourth quarter, and Yahoo, down 29 percent in the same period, ''well positioned to succeed in 2009.'' 
 Other activist funds, including Farallon Capital Management, Steel Partners, Private Capital Management and Third Point Capital, have also been hit hard by losses and withdrawal requests from investors. 
 Mr. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, has been one of the more aggressive activist investors in recent years, and is struggling with a high-profile disaster in a fund he set up two years ago to bet on the Target Corporation, the discount retailer. The fund, Pershing Square IV, is down more than 90 percent since its inception, which prompted Mr. Ackman to write his investors, apologizing profusely for the ''dreadful performance.'' 
 Mr. Ackman said he was planning a proxy fight to replace five directors on Target's board with his own candidates, hoping that the representation would persuade the company to buy back shares, turn some of its real estate into cash and make other moves. 
 While the losses at activist funds may be temporary, they have given ammunition to critics who argue that activist investors are merely short-term opportunists who bring little long-term value to the companies they target.. 
 ''The key issue is, can the global economy afford to allow institutional investors, who are seeking to maximize the price of their shares on a daily basis, determine industrial business, policy and strategy of major corporations,'' said Martin Lipton, founding partner of the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz and a longtime opponent of activist investors. 
 Many people on Wall Street say they believe a shakeout is already under way among the hundreds of activist investors who have recently emerged. 
 Mr. Hohn of T.C.I. said last year that he was backing away from high-profile proxy fights like the one he had waged against CSX. He called activism ''unpredictable and expensive'' in the Alpha magazine interview and said that T.C.I. would be more cautious about taking an activist stance with new investments.
 But even the critics of activist funds acknowledge that such investing is unlikely to fade away.
 In a recent report to its clients, Ramius, an $11 billion hedge fund based in New York, argued that the recession had created more openings for activists to push for strategic and operational changes at the companies they select.
 Steven A. Seiden, who helps activist investors identify board candidates for their proxy fights, said his clients were focusing much more on the ''nuts and bolts'' of the companies in which they invested and shying away from traditional activist demands like selling divisions, buying back stock and issuing big dividends.
 With time, more activists will get back into the hunt, Mr. Armstrong of Monitor Group suggests. ''I think they will eventually catch their breath,'' he said, ''lick their wounds and move on.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REGROUPING: Clockwise from top left, Christopher Hohn, Carl C. Icahn and William A. Ackman, activist investors who have pulled back from starting campaigns and have abandoned strategies that once turned quick profits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREAS SCHOLZ/BLOOMBERG NEWS
CHIP EAST/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%)

COMPANY: CSX CORP (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (93%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (93%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1076 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Pushing An Agenda, And Raising Cash for It

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At his news conference on Tuesday, President Obama lamented the plight of struggling Americans and said he wanted to provide ''a cushion for folks who have fallen on very hard times.'' On Wednesday, Mr. Obama was mingling with people at the other end of the economic spectrum, as the featured guest at a fund-raising dinner that cost donors $30,400 per couple.
 The small dinner at the National Museum of Women in the Arts was one of two back-to-back fund-raising events Mr. Obama attended. The other was a benefit concert for 2,000 people at the Warner Theater featuring Tony Bennett, who crooned about kissing the good life goodbye, dedicating the song to the bailed-out insurance giant A.I.G. 
 The fund-raisers, Mr. Obama's first as president, underscored the challenge he faces in engaging in politics as so many Americans are facing hard times. 
 On one hand, Mr. Obama is trying to pull the nation together, using his platform as president to tamp down populist anger at Wall Street bailouts and expressing sympathy for people who are losing their homes and jobs. On the other, he is trying to capitalize on his popularity to raise money to help pass his ambitious agenda.
 White House officials said Wednesday that Mr. Obama was sensitive to that tension. ''The president certainly understands the importance of tone, particularly in a challenging economy,'' said Josh Earnest, a deputy White House press secretary. ''This has been a fine line for him to walk from the beginning, and I think it is something that he recognizes as important, and it will be reflected in his remarks.''
 The events were expected to raise more than $3 million for the Democratic National Committee and Organizing for America, the committee's new arm that is trying to rally support for Mr. Obama's policies. A Democratic strategist said that, at the insistence of the White House, the party had set aside 700 of the 2,000 tickets to the concert to be sold at $100 each, so supporters of more modest means could attend.
 While running for president, Mr. Obama refused to take donations from federally registered lobbyists, and the Democratic National Committee has now adopted that policy, said Brad Woodhouse, a spokesman, who also said the committee would not take money from political action committees. 
 The Democratic National Committee still had tickets available for the Warner Theater concert as of Wednesday morning -- a reflection, perhaps, of the difficulty of raising money in a tough economy. The committee also struggled to raise money in February, but having Mr. Obama as president gives Democrats a powerful edge over Republicans.
 ''He's as big a draw in terms of people's interest in being in the same room with him as he ever was,'' Mr. Woodhouse said. ''The real challenge on the fund-raising side, with or without Obama, is that the economy is so much worse than it was and people's psychology about the economy is so much worse than it was even back during the election.''
 Mr. Obama also stepped into a House race on Wednesday, formally endorsing Scott Murphy, the Democratic candidate in next week's special election to succeed Kirsten Gillibrand, the New York Democrat who vacated her House seat to take Hillary Rodham Clinton's place in the Senate.
 Democrats and Republicans said the endorsement was no surprise, but they said the president -- who has vowed to change the tone in Washington -- should be careful about how deeply he engaged in political activities.
 ''You run the risk of this hypocrisy argument,'' said Steve Elmendorf, a Democratic strategist who is now a federally registered lobbyist and therefore could not attend Wednesday's events. Mr. Elmendorf said it was generally better for politicians to keep fund-raising events closed to the news media; Mr. Obama's events on Wednesday were open to a small pool of reporters.
 ''Sure you get grief from the press if you don't let them in,'' he said, ''but you get greater grief if you let them in and they write a story saying you're having a lavish fund-raiser and saying lavish things.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); WOMEN (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (71%); LOBBYING (70%)

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (72%)

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (72%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1077 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Under the Big Top, Washington Style

BYLINE: By CYRUS SANATI

 BODY:
HARDLY a day goes by without another drawn-out Congressional hearing concerning all things Wall Street. Congress has dragged down dozens of economists, regulators and so-called masters of the universe from their respective ivory towers, faceless government buildings and glass-laden high-rises to face the wrath of the American people. While the hearings have yielded important insights on the global financial crisis, they have also illustrated how little some members of Congress know about the very system they are supposed to be overseeing.
 Those who have watched the hearings from their desks at work or their couches at home have seen it all in the past few months: grandstanding, off-topic questions, the butchering of names, bad jokes, backhanded compliments, folksy insights and political rancor. 
The public's interest in the economy is at a peak, and more hearings should be expected in the months to come. Here is a look at some of the more bizarre, insightful and hilarious comments uttered by members of Congress in this modern-day inquisition. 
 ''I thank you, Mr. Bernanke, for being here today. And I suppose I'm in awe of the kind of power and flexibility that I have learned that you have.''
 REP. MAXINE WATERS, D-CALIF., addressing Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman
 ''Back home in Indiana, if a fellow goes and places a bet on a Bears game, he can go to jail. On Wall Street, he's considered a master of the universe. How does this work? And why is it allowed?''
 REP. JOE DONNELLY, D-IND., questioning regulators on credit default swaps
 ''This is going to be a good 'Saturday Night Live' skit.''
 REP. SPENCER BACHUS, R-ALA., making an off-mic comment at a hearing on TARP accountability
 ''There is a great company called I Can't Believe It's Not Butter. At least they have the decency to tell you it's not butter. They called it credit default swaps because if they called it 'I can't believe it's not insurance' maybe nobody would buy it.''
 REP. GARY L. ACKERMAN, D- N.Y., addressing regulators on credit default swaps 
 ''I've listened very carefully to your answers to three or four different senators today about valuation. And, frankly, I still don't quite understand.''
 SEN. MICHAEL D. CRAPO, R-IDAHO, to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner 
 ''When you look at the economy and markets, many would say that markets are a reflection of the economy.''
 REP. RANDY NEUGEBAUER, R-TEX., to Treasury officials on the bailout
 ''We have to get to a linguist or somebody, we need to -- this 'bad bank' idea is bad. It won't work, Mr. Chairman. We need a 3-year-old to come up with a name.''
 REP. EMANUEL CLEAVER II, D-MO., to Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman
 ''There are things that we can do, like managing a monetary supply not to create bubbles. There are things that we simply cannot do. Micromanaging the decisions of 300 million Americans and businesses and institutions is not something that Washington will ever do successfully, in my view. God bless you on your mission. I don't think it will work. I hope it does. It never has in history.''
 REP. TOM FEENEY, R-FLA., addressing Treasury officials on the bailout
 ''But basically, you come to us today on your bicycles after buying Girl Scout cookies and helping out Mother Teresa, telling us, 'We're sorry; we didn't mean it; we won't do it again; trust us.' Well, I have some people in my constituency that actually robbed some of your banks, and they say the same thing. They're sorry. They didn't mean it. They won't do it again. Just let them out.''
 REP. MICHAEL E. CAPUANO, D-MASS., speaking to bank executives 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Back home in Indiana, if a fellow goes and places a bet on a Bears game, he can go to jail. On Wall Street, he's considered a master of the universe. How does this work? And why is it allowed?'' Rep. Joe Donnelly, D-Ind., questioning regulators on credit default swaps
''This is going to be a good 'Saturday Night Live' skit.'' Rep. Spencer Bachus, R-Ala., making an off-mic comment at a hearing on TARP accountability
''There is a great company called I Can't Believe It's Not Butter. At least they have the decency to tell you it's not butter. They called it credit default swaps because if they called it 'I can't believe it's not insurance' maybe nobody would buy it.'' Rep. Gary L. Ackerman, D- N.Y., addressing regulators on credit default swaps
''I've listened very carefully to your answers to three or four different senators today about valuation. And, frankly, I still don't quite understand.'' Sen. Michael D. Crapo, R-Idaho, to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner
''When you look at the economy and markets, many would say that markets are a reflection of the economy.'' Rep. Randy Neugebauer, R-Tex., to Treasury officials on the bailout
''We have to get to a linguist or somebody, we need to -- this 'bad bank' idea is bad. It won't work, Mr. Chairman. We need a 3-year-old to come up with a name.'' Rep. Emanuel Cleaver II, D-Mo., to Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman
''There are things that we can do, like managing a monetary supply not to create bubbles. There are things that we simply cannot do. Micromanaging the decisions of 300 million Americans and businesses and institutions is not something that Washington will ever do successfully, in my view. God bless you on your mission. I don't think it will work. I hope it does. It never has in history.'' Rep. Tom Feeney, R-Fla., addressing Treasury officials on the bailout
''But basically, you come to us today on your bicycles after buying Girl Scout cookies and helping out Mother Teresa, telling us, 'We're sorry
we didn't mean it
we won't do it again
trust us.' Well, I have some people in my constituency that actually robbed some of your banks, and they say the same thing. They're sorry. They didn't mean it. They won't do it again. Just let them out.'' Rep. Michael E. Capuano, D-Mass., speaking to bank executives
 ''I thank you, Mr. Bernanke, for being here today. And I suppose I'm in awe of the kind of power and flexibility that I have learned that you have.'' Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., addressing Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); MICHAEL E CAPUANO (78%); MIKE CRAPO (78%); EMANUEL CLEAVER (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOE DONNELLY (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); RANDY NEUGEBAUER (58%); GARY L ACKERMAN (58%); MAXINE WATERS (58%); TOM FEENEY (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1078 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Hurt by Economy, Europeans Vent Their Anger

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Tempers are flaring across Europe as the economic pain deepens and more people lose their jobs. 
 Just ask Fred Goodwin, the former chief executive of the ailing Royal Bank of Scotland, whose house and car were vandalized early Wednesday. Or Luc Rousselet, the manager of a 3M factory in France, who was barricaded in an office for a second day by workers demanding better severance packages for 110 employees who are being laid off. 
 While such instances are scattered so far, the angry mood threatens to overshadow the Group of 20 summit meeting next week in London, where world leaders hope to find approaches to the financial crisis. 
 Several protests are planned in London's financial district, and the police are warning financial institutions to bolster security, cancel unnecessary meetings and keep employees inside. Bankers are being advised to wear ''casual clothing'' so they do not attract attention. 
 ''A recession has all sorts of knock-on effects,'' said Christopher Husbands, a professor of sociology at the London School of Economics. ''Crimes go up, relationships break down and there are instances of civil disturbance.'' 
 A nationwide strike in France last week, which drew at least 1.2 million people, was peaceful. But the government remains worried about an outbreak of violence similar to that last month in Guadeloupe, a French overseas territory, and in Greece in December. 
 The sense of frustration among those who lost their jobs or savings or a large part of their pension funds is fueled by reports of executives continuing to reap large rewards, as demonstrated by the outrage in the United States over bonuses paid at the American International Group. Europeans have long pointed out that pay packages of top executives in the United States are simply out of whack with the rest of the world, but their hopes of avoiding a public outcry were doused by the latest reports of inflamed local passions. 
 In Scotland, vandals smashed at least three windows on the ground floor of Mr. Goodwin's house in an affluent suburb of Edinburgh and damaged a black Mercedes S600 parked in the driveway. Mr. Goodwin was not in the house at the time and no one was hurt, but the incident alarmed Britain's business community. 
 A spokesman for Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who is in the United States, said ''there could be no excuse for people breaking the law.'' 
 Mr. Goodwin attracted criticism for keeping his pension, worth $:703,000 a year, or $1.03 million, despite a string of ill-timed acquisitions on his watch that led to the bank's being brought under government control. He rejected calls to surrender the payment, and the government is considering legal options. 
 It was the first such attack on a property owned by a banking executive since the financial crisis started, but some neighbors told local newspapers they were surprised it did not happen earlier. 
 The author of an e-mail message sent anonymously to a local newspaper on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the damage and said: ''We are angry that rich people, like him, are paying themselves a huge amount of money and living in luxury while ordinary people are made unemployed, destitute and homeless.'' 
 Though Mr. Goodwin resigned in October, the bank continues to pay $:290 a month for security at his house. Because of the bank's losses, Mr. Goodwin, once hailed as a skilled deal maker who turned a small bank into a global financial services operation, became the target of public scorn and a symbol of the decline of Britain's banks.
 ''People are looking for someone to blame as they feel the crisis on a day-to-day basis and experience feelings of injustice and anger as they ask themselves, 'What have I done to contribute to this?' '' said Sheri Jacobson, a psychotherapist who is clinical director of Harley Therapy in London. ''For those who are the target of the scorn it's extremely difficult, because for a long time they were the champions and they worked hard, and they also look at the situation, saying, 'My intentions were good.' '' 
 Some executives have already decided to forgo their bonuses, but companies continue to hand out hefty payoffs for executives of failed companies, setting off public outcries. 
 In contrast to politicians in the United States, those in Europe have stopped short of proposing taxes to claw back large executive bonuses, but even the leader of the employers' federation in France denounced the severance package proposed for the chief executive of Valeo, an auto parts maker. 
 In a speech this week, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France called on everyone to return to their ''values.'' He criticized both the irresponsible business sector as well as those who chose ''intimidation'' and ''threaten the security of property and people.'' 
 He got another whiff of the public mood Wednesday, when employees from a French plant owned by the German tire maker Continental marched through Paris and burned tires near Elysee Palace to protest the planned closing of a factory in the Oise region with 1,120 employees. 
 Striking workers at a French plant of 3M went even further, taking their boss hostage Tuesday. Such actions are rare but not unheard of in France; earlier this month, a similar situation at a Sony factory ended peacefully after one night. 
 A few dozen workers at the 3M plant in Pithiviers took turns standing guard Wednesday outside factory offices, The Associated Press reported. The workers did not threaten any violence and the atmosphere was calm. 
 Workers said they would bring Mr. Rousselet mussels and French fries for dinner, The A.P. said. 
 ''We recognize that there are social worries given the current situation,'' Christine Lagarde, the French economy minister, told a small group of journalists. ''But France has strong assets to deal with it, particularly our social safety nets.'' 
 Mark Malloch Brown, a British Foreign Office minister, told the BBC this month that he expected protesters to win more sympathy from the general public than usual. ''You know, frankly, there's enough anger out there amongst all of us who are watching what's happening on bankers' salaries and bonuses,'' he said. ''Hard-liners are going to have a sympathy they haven't had for quite a while.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: French employees of the German tire maker Continental burned tires at a demonstration in Paris on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUES BRINON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
OnWednesday, the suburban Edinburgh home of RBS's ex-chief was damaged, left, while workers in France held a 3M executive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY LAWSON/PRESS ASSOCIATION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHEL EULER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); VANDALISM (89%); STRIKES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (92%); RBS (LSE) (92%); RBS (AMS) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

PERSON: FRED GOODWIN (89%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1079 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Obama Team To Keep Focus Of Agencies On Terrorism

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is moving to solidify one of the most significant shifts of resources put into place under President George W. Bush: the transformation of the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation into agencies where the top priority is counterterrorism rather than conventional law enforcement.
 Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and other Justice Department officials have emphasized that they will not cut resources allocated to national security in the foreseeable future, and the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Robert S. Mueller III, told lawmakers on Wednesday that ''we have no intention of retreating from preventing a terrorist attack on American soil as our No. 1 priority.'' 
 The Obama administration's decision to maintain current levels of national security staffing comes as officials acknowledge, as Mr. Mueller did in his testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee, that the shift of agents to counterterrorism and intelligence duties after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, has seriously complicated other efforts. Those include demands for resources to combat corporate and financial fraud and a deadly drug war across the border with Mexico.
 ''The logical consequence of cannibalizing our criminal program to augment our national security efforts is that we have reduced the ability to surge resources within our criminal branch,'' Mr. Mueller said. 
 He added, in response to lawmakers' questions, that the bureau needed more agents to address financial fraud and crime related to drug trafficking.
 The administration's position underscores the extent to which Mr. Obama's legal team has found itself following many of the Bush administration's counterterrorism policies, even as Mr. Holder has asserted that the Justice Department will differ markedly by being more respectful of civil liberties and constitutional limits.
 Mr. Holder told reporters recently that the Obama administration hoped to hire more agents and prosecutors for what he called the ''traditional side'' of the Justice Department. But those increases will not be made ''at the expense of the national security component,'' Mr. Holder said. ''I mean that component still has to be a very healthy, robust part of the department.''
 That posture seems likely to keep alive a debate that has simmered behind the scenes in recent years largely within the ranks of intelligence and law enforcement agencies. At issue is whether the country is well served by assigning nearly half of the F.B.I.'s 12,000 agents to terrorism and intelligence work, as has been the case since shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 That debate has gained steam since the economic crisis, with lawmakers and others criticizing the F.B.I. as not putting enough resources into bank, mortgage and securities fraud, and pointing out that some of the most significant actions have been taken by state prosecutors, rather than federal ones.
 In Wednesday's hearing, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, expressed dismay that the F.B.I. had not devoted more agents to investigating mortgage fraud.
 ''Can you tell us exactly what the situation is, why agents are reduced and what the position of your agency is?'' Mrs. Feinstein asked. ''I can tell you, in California, it is a big problem.''
 Several current and former F.B.I. officials have said privately that while they believe Al Qaeda still hopes to strike inside the United States, those aspirations have not evolved into serious plots. A result, they said, is that too many agents are chasing too few credible leads. The officials would not be quoted by name criticizing the direction of the agency. 
 Some agents complained that they spend far too much time chasing marginal tips. One official said that a running joke in the bureau was that agents assigned to counterterrorism were the fittest because they could spend more time in the gym.
 Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who has questioned whether enough money has been allocated to fight the spillover of crime along the Mexican border, said it was difficult for any public figure to advocate a reduction in counterterrorism resources.
 ''No one wants to say we're not going to do national security at full-tilt,'' Ms. Lofgren said. 
 She said she hoped that the Obama administration would broaden the definition of national security to include combating drug cartels and gun smuggling rings.
 While the F.B.I. does not handle immigration issues, Ms. Lofgren noted a parallel concern that the Department of Homeland Security was similarly obliged to devote an outsize share of its resources to immigration enforcement in response to political concerns.
 Some critics, including former Vice President Dick Cheney, have already warned that Mr. Obama's policies have made the United States more vulnerable to terrorists. 
 Mr. Cheney said in a recent interview on CNN that Mr. Obama was ''making choices that, in my mind will, in fact, raise the risk to the American people of another attack.'' Mr. Cheney cited few specifics but referred to what he said was a return to the Clinton administration's approach of treating terrorism as a law enforcement problem, rather than a war. 
 As the Bush administration was vastly increasing the number of agents assigned to counterterrorism, financial fraud prosecutions dropped. Justice Department statistics show that the number of prosecutions of frauds against financial institutions fell 48 percent from 2000 to 2007 while securities fraud cases decreased 17 percent -- though F.B.I. officials said agents focused on larger cases with greater impacts. 
 The 2009 budget, the final Bush spending plan, gave the F.B.I. 377 additional agents, bureau officials said. Of those, 100 will be assigned to criminal investigations including white-collar cases, 70 will be used in cybersecurity projects and 207 will be allocated to national security, including counterterrorism and intelligence. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, left, and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. say they will not cut back on national security, despite the strain on other law enforcement efforts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ERIC HOLDER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1080 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Senior U.S. Diplomat Makes a Trip to Myanmar

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
A senior American diplomat met with government and opposition figures in Myanmar this week amid a review of United States policy toward the ruling military junta there. 
 Stephen Blake, the director of the Office for Mainland Southeast Asia at the State Department, visited Myanmar as part of a tour of five countries in the region, the department confirmed. His visit also was reported in the New Light of Myanmar, the principal state-run newspaper. 
 Mr. Blake met with the foreign minister, Nyan Win, and other government officials, in the junta's new and remote capital of Naypyidaw. While American envoys of Mr. Blake's rank and position have visited Myanmar before, this was the first trip by a visiting U.S. diplomat to Naypyidaw. In 2005, the ruling generals moved the government there from the principal city of Yangon.
 The state newspaper called the meetings ''cordial discussions on issues of mutual interest and promotion of bilateral relations.'' 
 Mr. Blake did not meet with the reclusive leader of the junta, Senior General Than Shwe.
 A State Department spokesman, Gordon Duguid, said Wednesday that the visit did not signal ''a change in policy or approach to Burma,'' and he stressed that a review of U.S. policy is still underway.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, frustrated over the junta's intransigence on human and political rights, ordered the policy review.
 ''Clearly, the path we have taken in imposing sanctions hasn't influenced the Burmese junta,'' she said last month. ''Reaching out and trying to engage them hasn't worked either.''
 The United States has a range of political and economic sanctions in place against Myanmar, and the State Department recently assailed the government in its annual human rights report, calling the junta ''highly authoritarian'' and accusing it of a broad series of abuses. (In something of a diplomatic slight, the State Department officially refers to Myanmar by its former pre-junta name, Burma; the department also uses Rangoon instead of Yangon.) 
 Mr. Blake also met this week with the leading opposition figures known as ''the uncles,'' a U.S. official in Yangon confirmed Thursday. He did not connect, however, with Aung San Suu Kyi, the head of the opposition National League for Democracy. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, remains under house arrest at her home in Yangon; meetings between her and foreign diplomats are rare.
 Earlier this week, the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention declared that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's detention violated both international and Myanmar law. The group called for her immediate release.
 Mr. Duguid said the United States is ''committed to encouraging a genuine dialogue between the Burmese authorities and opposition that leads to a free and democratic Burma.''
 The regime has pledged to hold ''multiparty, democratic elections'' in 2010 as part of its ''road map to democracy.'' The last previous election, in 1990, was a landslide victory for the opposition. The junta, however, refused to recognize the result and has remained in power ever since. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); ARRESTS (62%); HOUSE ARREST (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (78%); THAN SHWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1081 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; JACK FLACK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: How to Win the Spin Game

BYLINE: By PAUL PENDERGRASS. 
Paul Pendergrass, a public relations professional writing under the name Jack Flack, can be read at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
TO:Ken Lewis,chairman and C.E.O., Bank of America Corporation
 FROM:Jack Flack
SUBJECT:Use the Nightmare to Achieve the Dream
 Seven years ago, you got your dream job. You became the guy entrusted with proving that Hugh McColl's vision of a coast-to-coast superbank could work in reality, not just in concept. As throughout your career, you couldn't have charged harder as C.E.O., rewiring the operations, taking share through aggressive retail tactics and, yes, doing even more ambitious deals.
 Your admirers said you were a master operator, driven by a huge competitive streak. Your critics said you were a cold mackerel, driven by an insatiable craving to win the respect of the financial establishment. Either way, you and BAC were clearly winning.
 Six months ago, it all peaked with a strobe-splashed handshake with John Thain, as you rescued Merrill Lynch. Some said it was forced by the feds. But you had been sniffing Merrill Lynch for years, and landing a Wall Street brand name -- at a price you could not have imagined a year before -- surely made your pinstripes quiver. While some wondered why you paid so much for an imploding asset, most of the initial headlines said it was not only a good deal for BAC, but for the nation, as well. 
 But things changed. The mystery bonuses, the unforeseen shortfalls and Thain's gilded commode tainted the Merrill deal. The fourth-quarter loss provoked seemingly bottomless insecurities. Even more important, ''accepting'' government money ripped you out of the still relatively insulated world of banking and made you a regular topic for the talk-radio Jacobins. 
 Now shareholders and analysts are calling for you to be presented with the same surprise of two cardboard boxes and a security escort to the parking lot that awaits so many of your BAC colleagues. 
 But you're safe. Jerry Finger will bring a basket of fireworks to your annual meeting, but without a formal proxy solicitation it will be difficult to keep you from being re-elected chairman.
 So the real question is not whether you will survive. Instead, it's whether you'll do so in a way that best positions BAC to accomplish what you originally set out to do -- create America's dominant financial institution. 
 That question will be answered largely by your ability to lead. And like it or not, leading a financial institution in this era requires an ability to win the spin game, a game that you are currently losing.
 Here's what you must do. 
 ANTICIPATE Periods of crisis require frequent, timely communications. Your flacks have done a great job in intensifying the pace in recent months, and you have put virtually every traditional P.R. tactic to heavy use. But most of it has largely been in reactive mode, given the unpredictability of events. 
 So start mapping out events as you know they will likely transpire, particularly relative to the stress tests, Cuomo, repaying TARP and your ongoing business performance. You won't predict the next plot points exactly right, but you will put yourself in position to move first, which will give you much greater influence over how the stories are framed.
 GIVE 'EM A REASON TO CARE You have to make it clear to everyone why it's important that BAC succeed. In other words, you must make people see the Bank of America as the Bank for America. So, frame every interview, speech, op-ed and leaked memo by explicitly saying some version of ''we feel a unique responsibility to provide strong leadership in helping restore the American economy.'' Repeatedly remind taxpayers that that they are not bailers, but investors, and that you intend to make those investments pay.
 Based on his performance at the TARP hearings, your formerly tone-deaf counterpart at Citi has already learned that lesson, and so you're going to have to move quickly to avoid being a me-too.
 GIVE 'EM A REASON TO BELIEVE As soon as things start to settle, the scrutiny will focus intensely on your megafinance business model, which has never been proven to work. Consequently, you have to provide a logical, compelling reason why you will succeed where all others have failed. To do that, you will need to explicitly promote your single biggest strength -- your strong track record as an effective operator. So don't let the external calamities distract you from turning the required operational screws. Talk consistently about BAC's operating culture and have your flacks remind reporters that Citi could have worked if a true banking operator like John Reed had been running the joint. 
 TREAT MERRILL LIKE MERRILL Conventional P.R. activities will be useless as you take big actions at Merrill, mainly because of its endemic leak culture. Understand that the Thundering Herd has become the Chattering Hyenas, which is why Thain's office expenses were not just made public, but actually itemized. So play offense. 
 GO HUMAN Every crisis presents opportunities, and you already know that BAC will be in a much stronger competitive position after the recession than it was before. But it also presents a huge opening for you to step up as the better-rounded leader that BAC will need to get it through the internal turmoil it will endure the next year or so. 
 How so? Well, while you're not exactly traveling the road to Damascus, the harsh adversities of the current environment do present a perfect opportunity for you to show that you can bring some humanity to your leadership. If you can do that sincerely, go for it. But if you can't, don't do it, because it will be dismissed as a clumsy charm offensive. 
 GET A RUTHLESS SPEECH COACH You are saying many of the right things, but they can't be heard over all that screaming your body language is doing. Watch yourself on video with the sound turned off, and ask yourself, ''Why is that man so angry?''
 You need a fearless bully who will be obnoxiously honest with you, sending powerful electrical current through little nodes on the back of your neck every time you compulsively lick your lips or let your eyes dart around after you finish a sentence. In fact, you probably also want to get yourself a good yoga instructor who can teach you how to breathe, given that you often appear to be literally holding your breath.
 ENJOY Talk with the conviction of a leader who has been blessed with the adversities that will prove his full mettle, not with the obvious sense of irritation that permeates almost every conversation you have. That's going to be difficult, because it's obvious that you feel unjustly wronged by events. But you have to get over that and reground yourself in your original dream. When facing the second-guessing of Finger or any others who think they could have made better decisions while once-indestructible institutions were imploding all around you, lean forward and tell them that BAC will come out of the rubble in a far better competitive position than it's ever been. 
 You wanted to create America's dominant financial institution, and oddly enough the crisis could accelerate your progress by years. The only condition is that you have to transform as fast as your company. 
 Good luck.
 JF: pp 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LINE OF FIRE: Ken Lewis, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive, has been criticized for buying Merrill Lynch and for accepting government bailout money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON) (pg.F1)
 GRILLED: Ken Lewis of Bank of America before the House Financial Services Committee in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (79%); JOHN THAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1082 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 462 words

 BODY:
REINS ON WALL STREET The Obama administration is planning to unveil potentially strict new government regulations for hedge funds and exotic financial instruments. 
 TREASURIES A TOUGH SELL Investors had a tepid reaction to the latest issue of government debt, a sign that the appetite for Treasuries may be waning. [B1.] 
 SCRUTINY OF ANOTHER MADOFF Peter B. Madoff is beginning to be entangled in the investigation of the global Ponzi scheme run by his older brother, Bernard L. Madoff. [B1.] 
 FRUSTRATION AND ANGER Economic pain in Europe is causing tempers to flare. Just ask Fred Goodwin, left, the former chief of Royal Bank of Scotland, whose house and car were vandalized Wednesday. The angry mood may overshadow the Group of 20 summit meeting next week in London. [B1.] 
 PERSONAL DATA RealAge, an online quiz that promises to shave years off one's age, makes money by selling users' personal data to drug companies, which then tries to sell them medications. [A1.] 
 SMALL FIRMS' EXPORT SLUMP Small and midsize manufacturers in Japan, not Toyota or Sony, are taking the brunt of the nation's export slump. [B1.] 
 MORE BONUSES Despite the uproar over the American International Group's bonuses, more than a dozen other Wall Street firms that received government money are paying millions of dollars in similar bonuses. [B1.] 
 GEITHNER ON THE DOLLARTreasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner reaffirmed the dollar's role in global finance, clarifying remarks that had sent the currency tumbling. [B3.] 
 DIGITIZING HEALTH RECORDS Few hospitals use electronic patient records, an idea promoted by President Obama. ''We have a long way to go,'' said a researcher. [B3.] 
 CHIEF AT WEATHER CHANNEL Bill Bolster, a former chief executive at CNBC, is in negotiations to become the new chief executive of the Weather Channel. [B3.] 
 $27 BILLION FOR ROMANIA Several lenders, led by the International Monetary Fund, will provide $27 billion in emergency loans to Romania to help it deal with the financial crisis. [B2.]
 SHOPPERS' FOOTPRINTS Information on the sites people visit when they shop on the Web can be lucrative, and is stock in trade of so-called behavioral exchanges. Advertising. [B9.] 
 PENTAGON DOLLARS Defense Department contracts are not just for big corporations. About $55 billion in contracts are signed with small businesses. [B4.] 
 INCREASE IN FACTORY ORDERS 
 Orders for durable goods rose 3.4 percent last month, the first increase in six months, providing a glimmer of good economic news. [B3.]
 BROWSERS, HEAD TO HEAD All four major Internet browsers -- from Microsoft, Apple, Mozilla and Google -- have either recently been updated, or have released prerelease versions of their coming applications. It's time to compare. Basics. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (73%); PONZI SCHEMES (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); MEDICAL RECORDS (69%); INTERNET BROWSERS (68%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (65%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (64%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); APPLE INC (61%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (71%); RBS (LSE) (71%); RBS (AMS) (71%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (61%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (61%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (61%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); FRED GOODWIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ROMANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1083 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Be Wary of Putting Too Much Trust in Iran's Leaders

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''From Tehran to Tel Aviv'' (column, The New York Times on the Web, March 23):
 I, too, like Mr. Cohen, am an American who has recently spent time in Iran. I marveled as he did at the eagerness of many Iranians to find a better place for themselves in the world. 
 But President Obama's offering of a new beginning for the Islamic Republic will be lost on some Iranians, the majority of whom are under 30 and have no personal memory of the revolution. 
 Iranians are routinely jailed by their government. The generation of Iranian bloggers sending limited and intermittent readings of the country's temperature continue to disappear mysteriously into Iran's prison system. Note the recent death of an Iranian blogger, Omidreza Mirsayafi, who Iranian officials are saying committed suicide in his cell at Evin Prison.
 Part of Iran's calculations is the expectation that the Obama administration will do everything in its power to distinguish itself from its predecessor. As Iran evades sanctions and enriches more uranium, it can play coy with America's honest overtures, alleviating scrutiny of its domestic economic crisis and dysfunctional energy sector. Iran is scrambling to find allies, resorting to the ostracized leaders of failing states. 
 Yet Iran wants the United States to abandon its carrot-and-stick approach. It would be a mistake to succumb to such demands with so little in return. Leave President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to answer to his people in June. They are ready for change, too. I saw that firsthand.
 Cindy D. Tan Arlington, Va., March 23, 2009
 The writer is a research analyst for the Center for Terrorism Research, Foundation for Defense of Democracies.
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen's optimism about President Obama's message aimed at rapprochement toward Iran will dissolve over the course of the next few months and years as it becomes clear that we're no longer dealing with the Iran of legendary Persian history, but rather an Iran in the midst of a theocratic dictatorship led by a megalomaniac. 
 Stuart Pilichowski Mevaseret Zion, Israel, March 23, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Could anyone have said it better than Roger Cohen has said it? As far as Iran and Israel are concerned, as far as the long-term security of Israel is concerned, there is no better way of achieving success than by forcefully following the path the new Obama administration is following. 
 Every year, in our country alone, conflicts big and small are resolved, not through confrontation, threats and violence, but through hard-fought, intelligent, informed, peaceful and, above all, determined conflict resolution.
 It is not the coward's way, or the naive way, or the easy way, but the only way -- something the last administration and so many others throughout history have been far too slow to understand.
 Carl Mattioli Newtonville, Mass., March 23, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen's column about United States policy in the Middle East as it relates to Israel and Iran is a gem. He tells it as it is. 
 War between the Zionists who control Israel and the Arabs and Persians is never going to create peace in the Middle East. Sadly, the Arab League is much at fault for failing to face the reality of Iranian influence. 
 The Sunni kings and the Persian ayatollahs need a serious rapprochement. This internecine war between the Sunni and Shiite parts of Islam needs to end, as does the Zionist delusion of occupation and control of the illusionary ''Promised Land.''
 Don Kennedy Starke, Fla., March 23, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 Roger Cohen argues that Iran's leaders seek a pragmatic approach in relating to America because of their troubled economy and fears of Iraqi instability. 
 Tyrannical leaders do not act in people's best interests. Consider Omar Hassan al-Bashir, Saddam Hussein and Hitler. Sorry -- Mr. Cohen says ''that facile analogies between the Iranian regime and the Nazis dishonor six million victims of the Holocaust.'' Yet Hitler's threats were real, and the threats of Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, should be accepted as real, too.
 Is it in Iran's interests to oppress women? To lash or execute homosexuals? People do not always act in their own best interests, especially when motivated by religious extremism.
 Mr. Cohen says that a ''cooling of U.S.-Israeli relations'' would be ''about time,'' and that ''America's Israel-can-do-no-wrong policy has been disastrous.'' Is the only democracy in the region not worthy of friendship, while crowds chanting ''Death to America'' are?
 Esther Scheiner Beit Shemesh, Israel, March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (71%); HISTORY (68%); SUICIDE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); TERRORISM (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1084 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Reaffirms the Dollar's Role in the World

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner reaffirmed on Wednesday the dollar's role in the global financial system, clarifying earlier remarks that had sent the currency tumbling.
 ''The dollar remains the world's dominant reserve currency,'' Mr. Geithner said after a speech in Midtown Manhattan to the Council on Foreign Relations. ''I think that's likely to continue for a long period of time.''
 Mr. Geithner's comments came in response to a question regarding a proposal by Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, that suggested a possible replacement for the dollar as a global reserve currency. The proposal called on the International Monetary Fund to increase the use of Special Drawing Rights -- a basket of currencies made up of the euro, yen, pound and dollar that has served as a reserve asset. 
 The dollar plunged in the morning after Mr. Geithner, in response to another question, said China's suggestion ''deserves some consideration,'' though he added that he had not read the proposal.
 The dollar rebounded after Mr. Geithner's clarification.
 Still, Mr. Geithner said that the ''evolution of the dollar's role in the system depends really primarily on how effective we are in the United States in getting not just recovery back on track, our financial system repaired, but we get our fiscal position back to the point where people will judge it as sustainable over time.''
 ''As a country,'' he added, ''we will do what's necessary to make sure we're sustaining confidence in our financial markets and in the productive capacity of this economy and our long-term fundamentals.''
 In his speech before the group, Mr. Geithner pressed the case for expanding the government's ability to take over and reorganize ailing institutions that threaten the broader financial system.
 Mr. Geithner said that the government needed the expanded powers ''to help ensure that this country is never again confronted with the untenable choice between meltdown and massive taxpayer bailouts.''
 ''One of the key lessons of the current crisis is that destabilizing dangers can come from financial institutions besides banks,'' Mr. Geithner said in his remarks, ''but our current regulatory system provides few ways to deal with these risks.''
 Mr. Geithner focused his remarks on the Obama administration's plan to free the nation's financial institutions from the impaired mortgage-related securities that have hurt the economy. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Geithner, testifying before the House Financial Services Committee, proposed expanding the government's power to give it more control over financial institutions, like insurance companies, that were in trouble and big enough to destabilize the broader financial system. 
 With such authority, the administration argued, rather than having to spend $170 billion to bail out the American International Group, the government could have put the insurance company into receivership or conservatorship and regulators would have been able to unwind it slowly.
 Atop A.I.G. insurance companies ''is an almost entirely unregulated business unit that took extraordinary risks to generate extraordinary profits,'' Mr. Geithner said on Wednesday. ''And when this unit's derivative contract losses pushed A.I.G. to the brink of failure last fall, the entire financial system was endangered.''
 ''The legislation that I believe we need would help us deal with a similar case in the future,'' he said.
 The proposal would extend the power that the government has long had over banks to cover insurance companies like A.I.G., investment banks, hedge funds, private equity firms and any other kind of financial institution considered systemically important. That would let the government for the first time take control of private equity firms like Carlyle or industrial finance giants like GE Capital should they falter.
 If Congress approved such a measure, it would represent one of the biggest permanent expansions of federal regulatory power in decades. But scores of questions remained about how the authority would actually work, and industry experts cautioned that it would be only one step in a broad overhaul of financial regulation that President Obama and Congress were beginning to map out.
 Mr. Geithner's speech on Wednesday was sandwiched between hearings before the House Financial Services Committee.
 On Thursday, Mr. Geithner is scheduled to return before the committee. ''Tomorrow, I will lay out the administration's broad framework for dealing with the kind of systemic risk that A.I.G. posed,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''The framework will significantly raise the prudential requirements, once we get through the crisis, that our largest and most interconnected financial firms must meet in order to ensure they do not pose risks to the system.''
 He added, ''In the coming weeks, we will take additional steps, among them proposing new and stronger rules to protect American consumers and investors against financial fraud and abuse.''
 He ended with a plea for cooperation. ''The world needs to see America come together with a commitment that is commensurate with the deep gravity of the problem,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''The American people need confidence that the resources they are providing will be used wisely and in ways that will benefit them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy Geithner clarified on Wednesday remarks about the dollar's place as a global reserve currency, sending the dollar higher.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); INSURANCE (63%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (83%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1085 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: European Leader Assails American Stimulus Plan

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and STEPHEN CASTLE; Steven Erlanger reported from Paris, and Stephen Castle from Brussels. Dan Bilefsky contributed reporting from Prague.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The European Union's crisis of leadership during the economic downturn was thrown into sharp relief on Wednesday, as the current president of the 27-nation bloc labeled President Obama's emergency stimulus package ''a way to hell'' that will ''undermine the stability of the global financial market.''
 The blunt comments by the Czech prime minister, Mirek Topolanek, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the union, came just a week before a crucial meeting of the Group of 20 that was called to show global solidarity in fighting the recession. The comments were greeted with embarrassment by many Europeans who believe that the Czech leader does not represent a European consensus. 
 What made the situation even more trying for those who hope that the European Union might find a common voice in this crisis was that Mr. Topolanek's own governing coalition collapsed on Tuesday. The Czech opposition party, which favors bigger increases in domestic spending during the slump, won a no-confidence vote on his leadership.
 Despite widespread fears that European nations could prolong the current recession unless they act in concert with one another and the United States, the slump has highlighted differences over deficit spending, interest rates and possible bailouts for new union members in the East. There are few signs that the alliance is developing the political leadership to match its economic weight.
 Britain, like the United States, has undertaken an aggressive fiscal stimulus and slashed interest rates. But Germany and France have opposed calls for further large stimulus packages and even greater deficit spending, while the European Central Bank has kept interest rates higher than they are in the United States and Britain. Germany and even some Central European countries opposed calls by Hungary for the creation of a single rescue fund for heavily indebted countries in Eastern Europe.
 Visiting the United States on Wednesday, Gordon Brown, the British prime minister, said there was ''far more agreement'' among world leaders than recent reports suggested.
 ''I believe that now, for the first time, global leaders recognize the need to cooperate,'' he said during a question-and-answer session at New York University.
 Even so, Mr. Topolanek's comments during a speech to the European Parliament underscored unresolved differences. The country holding the revolving presidency is supposed to speak for Europe as a whole, and Mr. Topolanek will go to the Group of 20 meeting in London as the European president. The Group of 20 comprises 19 industrialized and emerging countries and the European Union. Numerous other Europeans are to attend, including the head of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, and the leaders of individual countries like France, Germany, Britain, Italy and Spain. 
 Mr. Topolanek will also host Mr. Obama in Prague a few days later at a United States-European Union summit meeting.
 Jiri Paroubek, the leader of the Social Democrats in the Czech Parliament, who called Tuesday's vote of no confidence against Mr. Topolanek, accused him of making an undiplomatic gaffe. ''In my view, it is extremely impolite and undiplomatic toward President Obama, who we will host in less than two weeks' time,'' he said.
 Europeans themselves are well aware of the leadership problem, having painfully negotiated a new constitution, which European voters rejected. They then forged the Lisbon Treaty, which will create a permanent European president and foreign minister, and which was supposed to go into effect on Jan. 1. But the Lisbon Treaty, which requires the votes of all member states, was rejected by Irish voters last June, giving the Czechs their turn in the six-month rotating presidency.
 While the Irish are expected to vote again in the fall, Mr. Topolanek's own government has not ratified the treaty, either. Even though he is likely to remain in office through June, when the Czech presidency of the union ends, his government's defeat will make it harder to ratify the treaty. The Irish foreign minister, Micheal Martin, said in Dublin that the Czech problems would make Ireland's effort to ratify ''a bit more complex.''
 Mr. Topolanek's remarks were considered impolitic, with the German leader of the Socialist group in the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, telling him, ''You have not understood what the task of the E.U. presidency is,'' and describing his comments as ''not the level on which the E.U. ought to be operating with the United States.''
 A Czech spokesman said that Mr. Topolanek meant to say that the European Union would be on the way to hell if it increased its own spending too much, rather than predicting that the United States was doomed. 
 Mr. Topolanek is not alone in his concern that Mr. Obama's stimulus package, which will push the United States budget deficit this year to 10 percent or more of gross domestic product, will put a huge strain on global financial markets. German officials have also criticized the evolving American program, and many other European nations have declined to create fiscal stimulus programs anywhere near as large as that of the United States, arguing that too much extra money will lead quickly to inflation.
 There are also disagreements between the United States and the Europeans about how much emphasis to place on fiscal stimulus as opposed to enhanced regulation of finance and tax havens. Even so, participants have been making progress on a communique that will signal a rough consensus on principles in London on April 2, officials from both sides say.
 They expect that there will be enough in the final communique about the need for fiscal stimulus to satisfy Washington, with Europe ready to do more if its first package of spending does not do enough, and that there will be enough about the need to beef up regulation and international oversight to satisfy the Europeans. 
 A senior European Union official, also speaking on condition of anonymity because of the embarrassing nature of the issue, said everyone hoped to de-emphasize the trans-Atlantic dispute over fiscal policy. ''We don't think we need it, we don't think the world needs it and we don't think it makes sense,'' the official said.
 Katinka Barysch, deputy director of the London-based Center for European Reform, said that Mr. Topolanek had undermined a consensus that was carefully forged at last week's European Union summit meeting in Brussels. ''The E.U. had made some progress towards a coherent position,'' Ms. Barysch said. ''He has undermined that.''
 Analysts in Prague said that Mr. Topolanek was eager to show that he was still politically relevant. They noted that some countries, like the Czech Republic, which emerged from decades of Communism, were deeply suspicious of state intervention in the economy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the European Parliament, the Czech prime minister, Mirek Topolanek, called President Obama's plan ''a way to hell.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE KARABA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); EXTERNAL DEBT (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (58%); GORDON BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SPAIN (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1086 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: From Rep. Frank, a To-Do List for Changing Wall Street

BYLINE: By CYRUS SANATI

 BODY:
WALL STREET is bracing for a regulatory tsunami to make its way up from Washington. Lawmakers are considering sweeping changes to the Depression-era securities laws and regulatory agencies that failed to prevent the economic downturn.
 As these new proposals gain momentum, Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, will have a central role in influencing the size and scope of these new regulations.
 He has stated his determination to push through legislation that will not only address the nation's economic woes, but also make sure Wall Street is not allowed to pile on the kind of risk that propelled the crisis. With a to-do list that includes creating new regulations and laws addressing executive compensation, he is being closely watched by the financial industry.
 Mr. Frank, 68, was asked on March 19 about the financial crisis and the changes he would like to bring to Wall Street. Following are edited and condensed excerpts from the discussion. 
 Q. Since you became the chairman of the Financial Services Committee in 2007, the nation has had its worst financial shock since the Depression, and several of the largest banks and Wall Street firms have either failed or been sold to avoid a collapse. Have the responsibilities been in any way overwhelming?
 A. Close to. They have overwhelmed everything in my life. I have been able to deal with the responsibilities, but at the expense of being able to do almost anything else.
 Q. Subprime mortgages played a large part in the downturn, as well as the need for the government to rescue the mortgage financing giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. In an op-ed in the Financial Times in 2007, you said, ''The subprime crisis demonstrates the serious negative economic and social consequences that result from too little regulation.'' What have you done since to tighten regulation of that market?
 A. We passed shortly thereafter a bill that would prevent the type of subprime mortgages that went bad. Unfortunately, it never passed the Senate. I am returning to that now.
 Earlier in 2007 we passed legislation to improve the regulation of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, but the Senate didn't get on to passing it until July 2008 and by that time it was too late.
 The problem was with George Bush in power. It was hard to get the approval we needed for the degree of regulation that we thought was necessary.
 Q.What other regulatory changes do you think are needed? For example, some have called for a repeal of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the 1999 law that allowed commercial and investment banks to consolidate. Should it be repealed? 
 A. No -- I did vote against that bill, and I think it was a mistake, but at this point you don't try to recreate those conditions, but instead you adopt new regulations. The problem with that bill wasn't that it repealed some old rules, but that it didn't put new rules in instead.
 First, there needs to be a systemic risk regulator. Some entity in the federal government that has got to be able to tell these unregulated entities that you are getting in over your head, you are too highly leveraged, you need to cut back on lending, you need to improve your capital. We have ways of doing that for banks, but not for nonbanks.
 Q.What institutions are you talking about?
 A. Hedge funds, private equity funds, investment banks -- anything that's not a bank. But we are not going to say that you can regulate this institution or that institution, because once you do that someone is going to invent a new institution that's not covered.
 Secondly, we have to reform the compensation system. There is now a perverse incentive: if you are running one of these big companies and you take risks and it pays off, you get extra compensation. If you take a risk and the company loses money, you suffer no penalty.
 Third, we need a way to resolve -- but that is a nice way of saying ''dissolve'' -- a nonbank financial institution that gets in trouble. What we are talking about is a specialized form of bankruptcy. If a bank gets in trouble, we are able to step in and wind it down without a crisis.
 Lastly, a large part of the problem has been caused by securitization. Three years ago, if you borrowed money from someone, you paid that person back. I want to pass a law that says nobody can securitize 100 percent of anything. We have to give people more confidence that when they buy something in the securitization market, that they are not just buying junk. And one way to do that is to require that the original lender hold a small percentage of the loan.
 Q.As criticism of the government's financial rescue plan has increased, there have been calls for Timothy F. Geithner to resign as Treasury secretary. Do you think he is doing a good job?
 A. I do -- I think they are just political.
 Q.American International Group has gotten more than $170 billion in government aid since last fall, and its recent bonus awards caused a national uproar. Was the bailout a mistake? 
 A. No, I think they had to do something. They should have put some conditions on it. But they were in a ''damned if they did, damned if they didn't'' situation. When they did not intervene to pay off any of the people that Lehman Brothers owed money to, they were accused of causing a big problem, and then they did the opposite with A.I.G.
 Q.One of the many critiques of the government's handling of the A.I.G. bailout was that it paid off A.I.G.'s counterparties at par for assets that were at the time worth half that amount, potentially costing taxpayers $30 billion.
 A. You realize that the government that did that was George Bush's government.
 Q.What do you think Wall Street will look like in five years? Will there still be masters of the universe who make millions, in some cases billions, of dollars a year? Should there ever have been?
 A. No, they shouldn't have been, and they shouldn't have wanted to be. But I think that they will still be very important.
 Look, financial intermediation is essential. The job of the financial services industry is to gather up money that is in smaller amounts by a large number of people and agglomerate it so it can then be available in larger amounts to a few people who can use it constructively.
 That will still be going on, but I'm not sure exactly in what form. I do think there will be less razzle-dazzle -- less ''Oh, let's invent something for its own sake.''
 Q. Many Americans have been following your committee's hearings -- so much so that even ''Saturday Night Live'' did a skit about them, featuring you grilling the Big Three automakers. How do you think they did in impersonating you?
 A. I am impressed with Fred Armisen's range given that he impersonates me and Barack Obama, so I guess that's, um, sort of interesting. The only time I was upset was when they had someone doing me that was really fat.
 Q.How's your 401(k) doing? Like many Americans these days, do you open your statement and just scream?
 A. Overwhelmingly, my money is in Massachusetts municipal bonds. I long understood that the corporate world charges municipalities an unfairly high risk premium. Full faith and credit general obligation municipal bonds are very safe. I am heavily invested in bonds that have been paying me a steady 4 1/2, 5 percent, for years and suffered no losses. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ENFORCER: Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, wants greater oversight of financial institutions including hedge funds as well as reform of executive compensation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US GRAMM LEACH BLILEY ACT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (86%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009



1087 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2694 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times: Around Town

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Museums and Sites
AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Spring Equinox,'' a performance by the Kodo drummers of Sado Island, Japan. Through Aug. 16, ''Climate Change: The Threat to Life and a New Energy Future,'' an interactive display. Through May 25, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter.'' In the Imax theater through May 23, playing alternately every hour on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Wild Ocean,'' about underwater survival of migrating species, and ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' a search for dinosaur fossils. Timed tickets to ''Climate Change'' and ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for ages 2 to 12. Suggested general admission: $15; $11 for students and 60+; $8.50 for children. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Cosmic Collisions'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for ages 2 to 12. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.20090326 
HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN Staten Island Historical Society. Every Wednesday through April 29 at 7:30 p.m., English country dancing; $5. Saturday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., performances of contemporary and historic acoustic folk music by Water Sign; part of the Tavern Concerts series; $15; $12 for members; reservations required, Ext. 281. Open Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Additional tours on weekdays at 2:30 p.m. and on weekends at 2 and 3:30 p.m. 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town, Staten Island, (718) 351-1611, historicrichmondtown.org; $5; $4 for 65+; $3.50 for students and ages 5 to 17; free for members and under 5.20090326
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS Through May 9, ''40 Years of Firsts: Dance Theater of Harlem,'' an exhibition of photographs, costumes and other items. Library hours: Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-1630, nypl.org; free.20090326
NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Tuesday at 6 p.m., ''The Second Avenue Subway,'' a lecture by New York City transit planners. Through July 5, ''The Future Beneath Us: Eight Great Projects Under New York,'' an exhibition of photographs and maps documenting public projects in progress, including a subway hub in Lower Manhattan; Long Island Rail Road access to Grand Central Terminal; the extension of the No. 7 train to the West Side; and the first phase of the Second Avenue subway, to run from 125th Street to Lower Manhattan. The exhibition is also sponsored by the New York Public Library, which has on display materials relating to four other projects at the Science, Industry and Business Library, 188 Madison Avenue, at 34th Street. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Gallery Annex, next to the stationmaster's office, Grand Central Terminal, (212) 878-0106, mta.info/mta/museum; free.20090326
NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY Through July 12, ''Abraham Lincoln in His Own Words: An Intimate View of Our Greatest President,'' an exhibition of speeches, letters and other documents. Through December 2010, ''First Flowers: Colonial Portraits at the New-York Historical Society.'' Through Oct. 2, ''Taking the Oath: The First Presidential Inauguration,'' an exhibition of artifacts from Washington's swearing-in, including a chair and a balustrade from Federal Hall, the site of the ceremony. Through May 3, ''A New President Takes Command,'' an exhibition on Franklin D. Roosevelt's first 100 days in office, with documents, photographs and newsreels, also featuring materials from the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum in Hyde Park, N.Y. Through Sunday, ''Grant and Lee in War and Peace,'' an exhibition of documents, photographs, artwork, military equipment and other items. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12.20090326
ROCK AND ROLL HALL OF FAME ANNEX NYC With artifacts including photographs, vintage amplifiers and Bruce Springsteen's 1957 Chevy. Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 76 Mercer Street, SoHo, (646) 786-6680, rockannex.com. Timed tickets: $24.50; $22.50 for 65+; $16.50 for those 4 to 12.20090326
SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM Through January 2010, ''Treasures of a President: F. D. R. and the Sea,'' an exhibition based on Roosevelt's love of sailing and collecting, with prints, drawings, letters and ship models. Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Beginning on Wednesday, Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; extended hours to 9 p.m. on the third Friday of every month. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8786, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; $10; $8 for students and 65+; $5 for those 5 to 12; free for those 4 and under and for everyone during extended hours on the third Friday of the month.20090326
Gardens
NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN Through April 12, ''The Orchid Show: Brazilian Modern,'' a display of thousands of flowers, set in a contemporary garden, with artwork. Demonstrations on potting and dividing orchids, Saturday and Sunday at 1:30 p.m.; Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, weather permitting, every 20 minutes. Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. An all-garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $8 for children 2 to 12; free for members and under 2. Grounds admission only: $6; $5 for Bronx residents; $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; free for under 2 and for everyone all day on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking, $12.20090326
STATEN ISLAND BOTANICAL GARDEN Thursday at 6:30 p.m., a presentation about the Staten Island Bluebelt watershed system at the Blue Heron Nature Center; free. Grounds hours: daily, dawn to dusk; the one-acre Scholar's Garden and the Secret Garden are open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, Staten Island, (718) 448-2500, sibg.org. Grounds admission is free. Scholar's Garden admission: $5; $4 for 62+, students and under 12. Secret Garden: $2 (free if accompanied by a child); $1 per child.20090326
WAVE HILL Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Garden Walk: Epiphytes in the Conservatory'' focuses on bromeliads, ferns and orchids; free with admission. Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx, (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org; $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; free on Tuesdays through April, and on Saturdays, 9 a.m. to noon, year round. On-site parking, $8; free off-site parking with free shuttle service to the garden.20090326
Events
AFRICAN SCULPTURE AND PAINTINGS Through Tuesday, a display of Ghanaian sculptures from the 13th to the 17th centuries and bark paintings by Congolese pygmies. Open Friday, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., and Saturday, 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. LaGuardia Community College, Shenker Hall, 31-10 Thomson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 482-6037; free.20090326
BMW ART CARS Through April 6, an exhibition of cars turned into pieces of art in the mid-1970s by Andy Warhol, Frank Stella, Roy Lichtenstein and Robert Rauschenberg. Also on display is a section of a stadium-size installation created last November by the artist Robin Rhode, who used a specially equipped 2009 Z4 Roadster as a ''paintbrush,'' with video clips of all of the artists. Daily, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., Vanderbilt Hall, Grand Central Terminal; free.20090326
BROOKLYN BREWSSaturday at 1 p.m., a discussion about the past and present of Brooklyn breweries, meeting at the Fort Greene Park Visitor Center, reachable from Myrtle Avenue and Washington Park, Brooklyn. Led by the Urban Park Rangers.(718) 722-3218, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20090326
A CONVERSATION: OTTO SCHENK AND JOE CLARK Thursday at 5:30 p.m., a discussion with two veteran members of the Metropolitan Opera: Mr. Schenk, a director, and Mr. Clark, the former technical director. Sponsored by the Wagner Society of New York. Reservations required: (212) 749-4561. German House, 871 United Nations Plaza, 49th Street at First Avenue; $20, $10 for students. 20090326
MURRAY HILL MARKET AT P.S. 116 An indoor and outdoor market, sponsored by the P.T.A. Sundays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., East 32nd Street, at Second Avenue; free.20090326
MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK Wednesday at 6:30, ''Bus Rapid Transit: Getting New York's Buses Moving,'' a discussion exploring bus rapid transit models, moderated by Aaron Naparstek, editor in chief of Streetsblog. Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212) 534-1672, Ext. 3395, mcny.org; $12; $8 for 65+ and students; $6 for museum members; reservations required.20090326
'TRACKING THE CREDIT CRISIS: A TIMELINE' A display and video presentation documenting the financial crisis, with updates as they occur. Open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Museum of American Finance, 48 Wall Street, at William Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 908-4110, moaf.org; $8; $5 for children 7 and older, students and 62+; free for 6 and under.20090326
WOMEN'S HISTORY MONTHwill be celebrated with the screening of ''The Audacious Adventures of Nellie Bly -- Around the World in 72 Days,'' a film by Christine Lesiak about the 19th-century reporter Nellie Bly, Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Roosevelt Island Visual Art Association Gallery, 527 Main Street, Roosevelt Island. Through April 19, a group show of artists in the association; rivaa.com.(212) 832-4540, rioc.com; free.20090326
Spoken Word
92ND STREET Y Monday at 8 p.m., ''Gogol at 200,'' a discussion about that Russian author to celebrate the 200th anniversary of his birth, with the writers Ken Kalfus, Gary Saul Morson and Gary Shteyngart. 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500, 92y.org; $19; $10 for those 35 and younger.20090326
CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER Monday at 6:30 p.m., ''Old York Readings and Reflections -- the Rise and Fall of 42nd Street,'' a discussion about the theater district, with Alexis Greene, a co-author of ''The Story of 42nd Street: The Theaters, Shows, Characters and Scandals of the World's Most Notorious Street''; Craig Morrison, a theater architect and historian; and Howard Kissel, a columnist for The Daily News. Reservations: (212) 817-8215. 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street, gc.cuny.edu; free.20090326
'ISRAEL AND INDIA: A RELATIONSHIP COMES OF AGE' A two-day conference (Monday and Tuesday) with scholars from the United States, India and Israel, in conjunction with the exhibition ''From Malibar and Beyond: The Jews of India.'' Reservations are required for the conference: yu.edu/cis, (212) 960-0189. Yeshiva University Museum, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron District; free.20090326
SCREENING AND DISCUSSION Sunday at 1 p.m., a screening of ''My Neighbor, My Killer,'' a film by Anne Aghion about the devastation and rebuilding of Rwanda; Ms. Aghion will be present. Museum of Jewish Heritage -- A Living Memorial to the Holocaust, 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $10, $7 for students. 20090326
Walking Tours
ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRINGSaturday at 2 p.m., ''Happy Birthday, Queensboro Bridge!,'' meeting on the northeast corner of 57th Street and First Avenue, Manhattan.(212) 265-2663; $10.20090326
ART GALLERY TOURS NEW YORKSaturday at 1 p.m., a tour featuring painting, sculpture, electronic media and photography in SoHo and on the Lower East side, meeting at 39 Wooster Street, SoHo.(212) 946-1548, nygallerytours.com; $20.20090326
BIG ONION WALKING TOURSSunday at 11 a.m., ''Multi-Ethnic Eating Tour,'' a gastronomic tour of the Lower East Side, Chinatown and Little Italy, meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side; $20; $17 for 63+, students and members of the New-York Historical Society. Sunday at 1 p.m., a tour of the Bowery, meeting at the Black Cube at Astor Place, East Village.(212) 439-1090, bigonion.com; $15; $12 for 63+, students and members of the New-York Historical Society.20090326
CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENTTours of Brooklyn's neighborhoods. Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Bushwick in Williamsburg; Williamsburg in Bushwick,'' meeting at Graham and Metropolitan Avenues, street level of the L station. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Red Hook,'' meeting at the corner of Columbia and Carroll Streets.(718) 788-8500, Ext. 217; $13; $8 for students and 65+.20090326
FORT GREENE PARK WALKING TOURSaturday at 3 p.m., Dry Earth hosts a guided exploration of the park, blending facts and figures with experiential learning, meeting at the Martyrs Memorial in the center of the park.(480) 205-8259, dryearth.org.20090326
JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORKSunday at 1 p.m., ''Grand Central Terminal: Crossroads of a Million Private Lives,'' meeting inside the entrance at Park Avenue and the bridge over 42nd Street.(212) 242-5762, joycegoldhistorytours.com; $15; $12 for 62+.20090326
I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURSSaturday at 1 p.m., ''Mansions, Millions and Magnificence -- The Millionaires' Mile,'' meeting at the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue.(732) 270-5559; $15.20090326
METRO TOUR SERVICEFriday through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour in Brooklyn, with stops in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill. Every Monday at 2 p.m., a black history tour of Bedford-Stuyvesant. All tours meet in front of the New York Marriott, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Reservations are required.(718) 789-0430; each, $25.20090326
NEW YORK CITY CULTURAL WALKING TOURSSunday at 2 p.m., Stuyvesant Park Historic District, meeting on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, Manhattan.(212) 979-2388, nycwalk.com; $15.20090326
NOHO: A NEW FRONTIERSunday at 2 p.m., a look at the area between Broadway and the Bowery, once home to many printing companies and warehouses, meeting at 307 Lafayette Street, Lower East Side. Sponsored by Bernie's New York.(718) 655-1883; $15.20090326
NOSHWALKSSunday at 1 p.m., a tour of Astoria, Queens, with samplings of the many cuisines found there, meeting at El Sitio de Astoria at 35-55 31st Street.(212) 222-2243, noshwalks.com; $40; $35 for members.20090326
NYC DISCOVERY TOURSSaturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Brooklyn Heights/Cobble Hill History and Tasting Tour.'' Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.$22; includes the cost of food.20090326
OUTDOORS CLUBSunday at 11:30 a.m., ''An April Fool's Joke on New York City,'' a two-to-three-mile walk in Lower Manhattan, meeting at the southwest corner of 34th Street and Seventh Avenue. Tour operator: (718) 471-7036.For more information, call (212) 348-5344; $3.20090326
STREET SMARTS N.Y.On Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Crimes of Old New York'' visits sites of murders and other crimes, meeting at the National Museum of the American Indian, United States Custom House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan.(212) 969-8262, streetsmartsny.com; $10.20090326
A TOUR GROWS IN BROOKLYNA tour that focuses on brownstone life in Park Slope. Daily at noon. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 209-3370,brooklynwalkingtour.com; $30; $15 for children; lunch is included.20090326
UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORKSaturdays at 2 p.m., a tour focusing on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership.(212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.20090326
Recreation
SPIN-A-THON FUND-RAISER Saturday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., an indoor cycling event to raise funds for programs to benefit the Strong Kids Campaign. West Side Y.M.C.A., 5 West 63rd Street, Manhattan; To reserve bicycle time, participants need to raise $50 for the first hour, an additional $30 for the second hour and $20 for each subsequent hour. Bicycles can be reserved by calling (212) 875-4149 or via e-mail to jwood@ymcanyc.org.20090326

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Architectural Digest Home Design Show: Before the recession dulled our materialistic impulses, shopping used to be regarded as nearly on a par with a hobby. It was perfectly acceptable to spend a weekend doing things like stepping into the SoHo outpost of the furniture designer Ligne Roset and splurging on guilty pleasures like its deliciously bright Pumpkin chairs, right. Or to nose around antiques sites like 1stdibs.com without really worrying about whether the value of your purchases would appreciate. For reformed shoppers, this year's Architectural Digest Home Design show, partly sponsored by The New York Times, will supply a blast from the past: its 110,000 feet of display space functions as both a high-end shopping mall and an expansive gallery full of endless amounts of eye candy created by some of the design world's most gifted visionaries. For this affair, though, it is possible to be entertained without approaching your credit card limit. In addition to offering irresistible furniture and antiques, the organizers have lined up events that will suit the newly budget-conscious. On Friday afternoon the designers Barclay Butera, John Buscarello and William Green headline a seminar called ''Decorating in the New Economy,'' which promises advice on which bare essentials are required to transform any room. Mr. Buscarello is joined by Christopher Beggs and Benjamin Huntington for a second panel, on Saturday, tailored to design for small spaces. For all those who have a renewed interest in eating in, chefs will be preparing treats -- and offering samples -- in an eco-friendly kitchen. Attendees can also take advantage of free 20-minute consultations offered by several firms as well. The best highlight of the weekend, though, may be the temporary flight from thoughts of austerity and belt tightening, to appreciate art that happens to double as furnishings. (Friday through Sunday, 10 a.m. through 6 p.m., Pier 94, 12th Avenue at 55th Street, Clinton, 800-677-6278, archdigesthomeshow.com
 $25.) (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIGNE ROSET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); CITY LIFE (86%); DANCE (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FILM (76%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); STATEN ISLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011



1088 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: A New View Of Atlantic City

BYLINE: By SHIVANI VORA

 BODY:
IT'S a lively Tuesday evening at the Harrah's casino in Atlantic City. Gamblers fill the blackjack and poker tables while drinking beer and cocktails, slot machines clang in a steady rhythm, and the air holds on to traces of cigarette smoke.
Just a few hundred feet away, however, an entirely different world exists. Guests at the Red Door Spa are soaking in a waterfall-framed Jacuzzi and sipping pomegranate herbal tea on soft chaise longues around a fireplace. Soothing Zen music plays in the background, and the scent of eucalyptus wafts through the rooms.
Once, this quieter, calmer side of Atlantic City would have been hard to imagine. But the city, which has spent the last several years trying to spruce up with shinier casinos, upscale hotels and dining options beyond mile-long buffets, is turning to several new splashy spas to draw visitors.
There have been at least a half-dozen spa openings in the last two years, and a handful more are in the works. So now, if they can tear themselves away from the slots and tables, visitors are lured with hundreds of treatments with names like Lemon Zest, Dancing Waters and Immersion Rainforest. 
Six years ago, the spa culture was almost nonexistent. Save for a few small designated spaces set aside in some casinos where on-call therapists worked a handful of treatment rooms, there were virtually no spas, said Jeffrey S. Vasser, president of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority. Now, places like Immersion at the Water Club, Spa Toccare at the Borgata, Vive Day Spa at the Showboat, Qua Baths & Spa at Caesars and the Elizabeth Arden Red Door Spa at Harrah's are luxurious, meticulously planned amenities that are major selling points of the hotels.
While they vary in size and services they are all striving to be serious destinations for spagoers, aiming for customers who want to pass away an entire day getting treatments and lounging around saunas, steam rooms and swimming pools.
Barbara Kirk, 66, has stayed at the Showboat twice a month for the past decade to play the $1 and $5 slot machines, but she now includes visiting the hotel's Vive Day Spa as part of her itinerary. The 4,000-square-foot space, which opened in November, is lined with sand-colored Italian tile and has treatment rooms with cork floors to reduce outside noise. The men's and women's locker areas each have eucalyptus-scented steam rooms.
A spa novice, Ms. Kirk booked an appointment for her first facial after taking a tour of Vive and enjoyed it so much that she has been back twice.
''The only time I have to get beauty stuff done is when I come to Atlantic City,'' said Ms. Kirk, who lives in Bayonne, N.J., and works in the insurance business. ''Before, there wasn't really any place nice where you would want to spend a lot of time in, but Vive is a beautiful space.''
The spa trend started in 2003, when Spa Toccare opened at the Borgata with 15 treatment rooms and quickly became booked two months in advance. The demand for treatments was so great, said Brennan Evans, the director of spa operations, that Spa Toccare expanded to 54,000 square feet just two years later.
There was a handful of spa openings in the next few years, but the growth really took off in 2007 when the Elizabeth Arden Red Door opened at Harrah's. In 2008, Immersion, Qua and Vive joined the lineup.
And there are more openings planned. Sea Spa at the Chelsea boutique hotel is scheduled to open in mid-April. The 10,000-square-foot space will have exposed brick walls and rugs with animal prints, a relaxation room with heated benches and floors and a 94-degree saltwater pool. Also, at the end of next year, the Revel Entertainment Group is scheduled to open a casino hotel on the boardwalk where the spa will be a major component, a spokeswoman for the company said.
Cheryl Caliri, a 56-year-old retiree from Philadelphia, tried a massage at Spa Toccare when it first opened. She said that even though the city is just an hour from her home, she had gone there infrequently because she didn't think it offered the type of spas she loves to visit when she travels.
''After going to Toccare, my perception of the city completely changed,'' she said. ''It was on par with the spas I've visited in more exotic places like Hawaii and New Zealand.''
Now, Ms. Caliri takes monthly excursions to Atlantic City with her husband or her friends for massages, facials and manicures.
While a basic massage is the service most often booked at spas, according to the International Spa Association in Lexington, Ky., some services at the new Atlantic City spas go beyond the basics, and even the basics have twists.
Vive recently introduced a massage, facial and pedicure with seashells, a treatment that the spa says helps release calcium into the body. At Red Door, the manicure and pedicure stations have their own flat-screen televisions. Toccare has a dry-float soft pack, a tub with a wrap that simulates floating in water and is used as a part of several services. Immersion has a treatment room where jade stone is part of the walls, and the locker rooms at Qua are modeled after traditional Roman baths with hot and cold plunge pools.
While Atlantic City may be easier and cheaper to get to for many customers like Ms. Caliri, that doesn't mean the treatments themselves are a bargain. A 50-minute massage costs in the low three figures at most spas, and some extravagant treatments reach well into four figures. Qua, for example, offers a three-hour $5,000 treatment called Dieci Mani: five attendants administer an exfoliation; a hot stone massage; an ayurvedic shirodhara treatment, in which warm oil is poured on the forehead; a chakra balancing that uses different colored stones to balance the body's energy; and a facial. Customers go home with $1,500 in skin-care products and a $1,000 bag from one of the Pier Shops, like Louis Vuitton or Gucci.
The couples' treatments at Immersion start at $550, and the least expensive manicure at Red Door is $27. Most places add an additional 20 percent gratuity, which guests usually have the option of adjusting.
But even in the slowed economy, and even at those prices, most spas say that bookings are up or holding steady. Jackie Moyers, the assistant general manager of Red Door, said that business was up 5 to 10 percent in February from the same month last year, and that weekends were still booked to capacity.
Spas tend to stay strong in slow economic times, said Lynne McNees, president of the International Spa Association. ''After 9/11, people flocked to spas in record numbers, and we're finding that they're still going now,'' she said. ''They may cut down on the length of treatment they get, but they have a psychological need of wanting to be nurtured during stressful periods.''
The steady bookings, however, did come at a cost for some spas. Those that noticed a slowdown recently introduced discounts, spa directors said. Spa Toccare, for example, still sells out on the weekends, but it introduced a 50-minute $99 massage Sunday through Thursday -- a 20 percent discount from the usual price -- to bolster weekday bookings. And Qua is offering a different sale every month, like one for April that offers a 50-minute massage, body exfoliation or facial for $99. That's 40 to 65 percent off the usual price.
While Immersion did not lower costs, it introduced the option of 50-minute treatments in November, shorter than the previous 80-minute minimum, to offer less-expensive choices. Both the Water Club, where Immersion is located, and Borgata, home of Spa Toccare, are jointly owned by MGM Mirage and Boyd Gaming.
Nonetheless, Immersion is perhaps the most deluxe of the spas. The 36,000-square-foot space is on the top two levels of the Water Club and has a glass-enclosed pool with views of the city and ocean. Items from a menu created by the chef Geoffrey Zakarian can be served at a poolside chaise longue or table.
Santosh Sekar, a 30-year-old hedge fund analyst from New York, booked two 50-minute Swedish massages at Immersion when he took a trip to the Water Club over Presidents' Day weekend with his wife, Jyoti. He said the shorter service did the trick. ''For me, going to the spa isn't only about the treatment -- it's also about enjoying the space and relaxing,'' he said. ''I can get that in 50 minutes and not have to spend as much money.''
Still, other customers say that the prices don't deter them. Ms. Caliri, now a regular at Immersion, said that her average bill came to $250 but that it was still far cheaper than booking a flight and going away for an extended period.
Ms. Kirk said the $130 she spendt each visit at Vive was a worthwhile indulgence. ''I work hard, and I think I deserve to treat myself every once in a while,'' she said.
Not all of Atlantic City's new spa customers are from out of town. Charles Haney, 31, who owns a restaurant in town and lives in nearby Egg Harbor Township, gets a massage every few months, a luxury he used to book only when he traveled. When he recently tried the 90-minute massage at Vive, however, he no longer felt the need to leave town for such an indulgence. ''I was surprised to discover such a nice spa experience right here,'' he said. ''I used to have the mentality that I had to travel to get that, but now I realize that I can have it right at home.''
IF YOU GO
The bluemercury spa (609-347-7778; www.tropicana.net/Atlantic-City-spa) is in the Quarter, a shopping and dining area in the Tropicana Casino & Resort. Bluemercury has 25 spas nationwide, but the Atlantic City spa, open since 2004, is its largest at 10,000 square feet.
Immersion (609-317-7790; www.thewaterclubhotel.com/spa) opened last year in 36,000 square feet on the top two floors of the Water Club hotel. Its menu was created by Geoffrey Zakarian, who owns the Manhattan restaurants Town and Country.
The 1,400-square-foot Larimar Aveda Salon & Spa (609-441-1600; www.larimarsalonspa.com) at the Pier Shops at Caesars offers hair, nail and body treatments. Qua Baths & Spa (609-343-2400; www.caesarsac.com) opened last May at Caesars Atlantic City. The 20,000-square-foot spa has treatments like a chakra stone balancing.
Sea Spa (800-548-3030; www.thechelsea-ac.com) is set to open in April at the Chelsea hotel. It will have a 94-degree saltwater pool and two relaxation areas: one with heated stone benches and floors and another where guests may order lunch from a spa menu.
Spa Toccare (866-692-6742; www.theborgata.com) at the Borgata, the first of Atlantic City's new spas, is spread over 54,000 square feet.
At Harrah's Resort, the 23,000-square-foot Elizabeth Arden Red Door Spa (609-441-5333; www.harrahsresort.com) opened in May 2007 and has flat-screen TVs at the manicure and pedicure stations and waterfall-framed Jacuzzis in the locker rooms.
Vive Day Spa (609-343-4118; www.vivedayspa.com), about six months old, is a 4,000-square-foot space that has eucalyptus steam in the locker rooms.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OVER THE BOARDWALK: At Immersion, atop the Water Club, spa patrons can swim with Atlantic City as a backdrop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MECEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
FIRE AND WATER: A waterfall and a hearth accent a Jacuzzi at the Elizabeth Arden Red Door Spa at Harrah's. It opened in 2007, accelerating expansion of the spa business in Atlantic City.
 SANCTUARY A lounge at Spa Toccare at the Borgata, top, and a treatment room at Qua at Caesars. The new spas offer a break from the hustle of Atlantic City's gambling tables and the bustle of its night life.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT MECEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) MAPS: Maps detail Atlantic City, New Jersey.(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARD GAMES (90%); POKER (90%); GAMING (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (74%)

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (74%); A MANZONI & C SPA (61%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (74%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (74%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (74%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011



1089 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 524 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
COUNCIL'S STANCE
On Elephants
Should New York City ban elephants, not to mention lions, and tigers and bears, from circuses?
Almost half the City Council members believe so, with 23 of the 51 co-sponsoring a bill to prohibit ''the display of wild or exotic animals for public entertainment or amusement.'' 
If the bill were to pass, it would eventually become nearly impossible to see elephants locally, because the Bronx Zoo, the only one in the city with elephants, has said it will phase out its exhibit as the elephants die. The bill has drawn renewed attention in New York City because of the arrival of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus this week and closing arguments last week in a suit accusing it of mistreating its Asian elephants.
The suit, filed in 2000 by a coalition of animal rights groups, accused the circus of violating the Endangered Species Act by using bull hooks and chaining elephants.
Ringling Brothers maintains that the circus is already regulated by the United States Department of Agriculture and that all investigations have shown that the elephants are well treated.
Michelle Pardo, a lawyer representing Ringling Brothers in the federal suit, said, ''Unless these elephants are successfully raised in captivity, they are just going to become extinct.''
There are just over 300 Asian elephants in North America, with Ringling Brothers owning the largest herd, 54. Of those, 18 are on tour and the rest are in a sanctuary.
The groups say life in the sanctuary is different from being forced to perform tricks. ''These animals are being denied a social natural existence, all just for eight minutes of entertainment,'' said John Phillips, executive director of the League of Humane Voters of New York City.
JENNIFER 8. LEE
TAKING
QUESTIONS
This week on the blog, Simeon Bankoff, the executive director of the Historic Districts Council, is answering selected questions about preservation efforts.
Here is an excerpt:
Q. What are your thoughts on the recent Landmarks Preservation Commission approval of the St. Vincent's Hospital that St. Vincent's and Rudin Management are planning -- specifically, a community organization buying a landmark building and then demolishing it because it suits its mission? Gwen
A. The grounds for a hardship exemption do include the notion that the landmark status of a property might prohibit the fulfillment of a nonprofit's charitable purpose.
That is the crux of the hospital's rationale for its proposal. The proposal's opponents have sued, claiming the commission granted the decision improperly, in part because St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan acquired that landmark structure, the O'Toole building, after its designation as part of the Greenwich Village Historic District.
The Historic Districts Council is a co-petitioner on this lawsuit. We believe that this decision could open the door to allow nonprofit institutions to acquire otherwise-protected properties for aggressive redevelopment. This is a particularly troubling prospect in these trying economic times, when so many nonprofit and cultural organizations have been forced to capitalize on their real estate holdings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAMMALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ANIMALS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); HISTORIC SITES (85%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); WILD CATS (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (74%); PETITIONS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAWYERS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); CHARITIES (63%)

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011



1090 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, March 27, 2009

 BODY:
International
TO THWART GREENHOUSE GASES
The Wheels on the Bus Stop
In an effort to confront childhood obesity, local traffic jams and a rise in global greenhouse gases from car emissions, an environmental group in Italy proposed a retro-radical concept: that children should walk to school. It is a first in Italy, but hundreds of ''walking buses'' have cropped up elsewhere in Europe and, more recently, in North America. PAGE A6
16 DEAD AFTER BOMBING IN IRAQ
A bomb exploded in a parked car in a market in the Shaab neighborhood of Baghdad, killing 16 people and wounding 40, many of them women and children, the police said. Doctors at the hospital where many of the injured were taken, some with severe burns, said the toll was likely to rise. In other violence, five people died from gunfire and bombs in turbulent Nineveh Province. PAGE A6 
REASSURING MEXICO ABOUT ITS IMAGE
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, continuing her show of solidarity with Mexicans in their struggle against drug trafficking, toured a police base in Mexico City and greeted diplomats from the American consulate. Her visit was interrupted by reports that the United States plans to name Carlos Pascual, a Cuban-born American diplomat who has written about ''failed states,'' as the next ambassador to Mexico. PAGE A9
En Route to an Outpost in the Stars A9
Iran Brings Syria Out of Isolation A10
TOKYO COURT REJECTS ANTHEM SUIT
A court rejected a lawsuit filed by 172 teachers and staff members punished for refusing to sing the national anthem and salute Japan's flag. The Tokyo Board of Education has required teachers to stand and face but which is considered by many as a symbol of the country's past militarism. PAGE A11
TRIAL STARTS FOR TAIWAN'S EX-LEADER
Chen Shui-bian, the former president of Taiwan, resigned in August after admitting that his wife had wired $21 million in campaign funds to offshore accounts. He faces charges of bribery and embezzlement and his trial began today. If convicted, he could receive a sentence of life in prison. PAGE A11
TALIBAN KILL 9 POLICE OFFICERS
Nine Afghan police officers were killed and six others were wounded in two attacks by Taliban insurgents in southern and central Afghanistan, the Interior Ministry said. The attacks seemed to underline the gathering pace of the war in Afghanistan as the Obama administration plans to bolster American forces battling the resurgent Taliban. PAGE A12
National
A NEW MODEL IN MISSOURI
For Youths Behind Bars
Missouri and a few other states are taking new approaches to its juvenile justice system to try to reduce the costly confinement of youths and stem the flow of adults behind bars. What is known as the Missouri Model emphasizes rehabilitation in small groups, constant therapeutic interventions and minimal force. PAGE A13
RACING TO PROTECT AGAINST FLOODS
The decision by officials in Fargo, N.D., to build a second set of dikes alarmed residents who will now sit near the new line of defense against what are expected to be record water levels. So went many of the decisions here and throughout North Dakota and Minnesota, where river and stream levels have overwhelmed communities, and already swamped some homes, roads and rural towns. PAGE A14
STATE RELEASES CLERGY ABUSE FILES
The attorney general's office in New Hampshire has released files on dozens of sexual abuse allegations against clergy members. Most of the reported abuse took place decades ago, and the attorney general is not pursuing most of the cases because the accused clerics are dead or the statute of limitations has expired. PAGE A15
Cellphone Case Raises Issues A15
Circumcision Cuts Rate of S.T.D.s A16
Senate Considers Drug Proposal A17
UNCERTAIN FUTURE FOR GAY MARRIAGE
The New Hampshire House voted to legalize same-sex marriage, narrowly approving a bill that faces an uncertain future in the State Senate. The vote followed by a day an announcement by Gov. Jim Douglas of neighboring Vermont that he would veto a bill legalizing same-sex marriage if it reached his desk. PAGE A18
New York
NEW YORK CITY JOBLESS RATE TAKES RECORD ONE-MONTH LEAP
In the biggest jump in any single month on record, New York City's unemployment rate leapt last month to 8.1 percent from 6.9 percent, the State Labor Department reported. That means the number of unemployed people nearly doubled in one year. PAGE A21
Big City A21
SCIENTIST SAID TO HAVE FAKED ILLNESS
A federal prosecutor in Manhattan said that two government psychiatrists had concluded that a Pakistani neuroscientist, Aafia Siddiqui, above, charged with trying to kill American soldiers and F.B.I. agents in Afghanistan had been faking her symptoms of mental illness. PAGE A25
Business
CHINA'S SUBWAYS RUSH TO KEEP PACE AS SPRAWL AND CAR SALES SURGE
At least 15 cities in China are building subway lines, and a dozen more are planning them. But mass transit systems with have to overcome China's increasingly spread out cities, and the country's growing love affair with the automobile. PAGE B1
REVISING STOCK OPTIONS
Executives at dozens of public companies are taking steps to lower the prices that employees would have to pay to convert options into stock. The moves have shareholder advocates fuming. Owners of company stock do not benefit from repricing of options, advocates say. PAGE B1
NEW UNEASE ABOUT OIL CUTBACKS
A sharp fall in investments and low oil prices could curb future supplies by almost eight million barrels a day within the next five years, according to a new study by an oil consulting firm. The report is the latest warning that the world could face a new energy shock when the economy picks up. PAGE B1
Breakingviews.com B2
7,500 G.M. WORKERS TAKE BUYOUT
More than 14,000 retirement-eligible hourly workers have elected to stay at General Motors rather than leave with a buyout package. And although more than 7,500 factory workers accepted the offers, G.M. needs many more longtime workers to leave, so it can replace them with new hires earning half as much. PAGE B3
Overseer of Medical Trials Under Fire B3
I.R.S. to Ease Offshore Tax Penalty B3
Hong Kong Tycoon Says Buy Now B3
Media
Newsprint Maker Said to Be Making Progress on Debt
AbitibiBowater moved closer to restructuring its debt ahead of a Friday deadline, as a major holdout in one of its two bond exchange offers agreed to participate, a person briefed on the talks said. PAGE B2
BLENDER TO CEASE PUBLISHING
The music and entertainment magazine will stop publication after its April issue. Blender will continue on its Web site, its owner announced. PAGE B6
Advertising
Staring at the Screen
Adults are exposed to screens (whether TV, computer or other) for about seven hours on any given day, according to a study released by the Council for Research Excellence. PAGE B6
Times Announces Salary Cuts B6
Obituaries
RONALD TAVEL, 73
A playwright and screenwriter, Mr. Tavel brought a bawdy sense of the outrageous to some of Andy Warhol's early films. He also was a prime molder of the Off Off Broadway avant-garde theater movement in the 1960s and '70s. PAGE B15
SPORTS
VILLANOVA OVERWHELMS DUKE
The Wildcats used a blistering start to the second half to leave the Blue Devils hopelessly playing catch-up. Villanova advances to play Pittsburgh, securing the Big East at least one spot in the Final Four. PAGE B9
PITTSBURGH MOVES PAST XAVIER
Pittsburgh trailed by 2 with about a minute remaining against Xavier. But Levance Fields, a senior point guard, managed to pack a lot into that minute. He made a rainbow 3-pointer that gave the Panthers a one point lead and secured Pittsburgh's 65-50 victory with a steal and layup. PAGE B11
UCONN TOPS PURDUE
Connecticut advanced to its first regional final since 2006. Craig Austrie led the Huskies with 17 points. Page B11
Weekend
FOR DRIVER AND AUDIENCE,
A Taxi Ride to Remember
''Goodbye Solo,'' Ramin Bahrani's moving and mysterious third feature, unfolds around a taxi driver and his passenger, who proposes an unusual business arrangement. And as A. O. Scott writes, wry humor and wide-awake intelligence informs every frame of this almost perfect film. PAGE C1
AMATEUR SLEUTH SHEDS TRADITION
''The No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency,'' stars Jill Scott as a private investigator who bends tradition in Botswana. The series, HBO's serial adaptation of Alexander McCall Smith's books, might seem too sweet for HBO but it doesn't feel like a walk through Busch Gardens either, Ginia Bellafante writes. PAGE C1
AVANT-JAZZ OASIS IN NEW HAVEN
Opening four years ago, Firehouse 12, a repurposed firehouse in New Haven, has earned a reputation as a pre-eminent spot for improvised music. On the whole, the operation suggests a model of sustainable activity for a field as transparently noncommercial as avant-garde jazz. PAGE C1
INVASION OF A NEW 3-D SATIRE
''Monsters vs. Aliens'' cheerfully converts invaders from outer space and inhuman creatures into familiar figures. The movie comes out of Dreamworks Animation and offers the latest twist on the parodic formula, A. O. Scott writes. PAGE C8
A HANDMADE AND SILENT WORLD
James Castle (1899-1977) was born deaf and refused to read, write, or speak but his drawings on view at Knoedler & Company, rendered in a mixture of soot and spit applied to found paper with gleaned items, embody his silent world and his loyalty to it, Roberta Smith writes. PAGE C25
Our Ovid of Suburbia, Reassessed C25
Escapes
ATLANTIC CITY'S SPA CULTURE
Amid the Rolling Dice
Atlantic City now has waterfalls, meditative music and aromatherapy. Sure, you can still play the one-armed bandits and shoot craps. Yes, the scent of cigarette smoke still hangs in the air. But in an effort to put a little more shine on the gambling town's image, a growing number of luxury spas have been opening with names like Lemon Zest, Dancing Waters and Immersion Rainforest. Page D1
Away
Doing a Lot With a Little
Katie Brown, host of the PBS television show ''Katie Brown Workshop,'' has elevated the concept of frugality to a near art. Her weekend home in the Berkshires, which she shares with her husband and two daughters, has become a laboratory for new ways to apply salvaged material and save money. Page D1
NEW ORLEANS: HISTORY BY THE PINT
Once a regional beer capital, New Orleans turned out a slew of popular brands like Falstaff and Dixie. Now, there are only a handful in the area, including Abita and Heiner Brau. The good news is that over a weekend, you can sample all the local brews, tour their birthplaces and learn their histories. And brewmasters in New Orleans hope the city will become the capital of Southern brewing again. Page D1
Your Second Home
Keeping the Peace in the Back Seat
The family car trip is often home to such favorite refrains as ''Are we there yet,'' and ''Stop kicking the back of my seat.'' When traveling with the kids, there has to be a more civilized way to keep the peace and the parents' sanity. Short of gags and manacles, that is. Here are several products that divert the children's attention in constructive ways. Page D2
Havens
Another Side of Florida
Fernandina Beach, Fla., has a few qualities to attract the second home shopper. With a rich history and well-preserved downtown area, it is also near the ocean. A lack of resort atmosphere is also a draw, though folks expecting classic Florida winters may be surprised by the cold water and occasionally freezing temperatures. Page D3
Ski Report
Downhill in the Midwest
Lutsen, the largest ski resort in Minnesota, offers a downhill experience not normally associated with the Midwest. It has 92 trails and 1,088 feet of vertical drop. Page D4
High & Low: Blue Hill, Me. D4
Editorial
BEING A PARTNER FOR PEACE
Benjamin Netanyahu is offering what sounds like a tantalizing commitment, that his government will be a ''partner for peace.'' We would like very much to take his words at face value, and it would be a lot easier to do that if he had not worked so assiduously to build his reputation as a hard-liner with deep misgivings about the very peace process he now claims to be willing to embrace. PAGE A28
A DIVORCE FOR GOVERNORS ISLAND
Plans for Governors Island never seem to go very far. Because the island has been controlled by both the city and the state, nobody has been able to decide what to do with it or how to sustain it financially. It is time to give the island one boss: its closest neighbor, New York City. PAGE A28
Op-Ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
Top officials in the Obama administration still believe in the magic of the financial marketplace and in the prowess of the wizards who perform that magic. But the wizards were frauds, and their magic was no more than a collection of cheap stage tricks. PAGE A29
DAVID BROOKS
I came to Afghanistan skeptical of American efforts to transform this country, and every element of my skepticism was reinforced during a six-day tour. Yet the people who work here make an overwhelming case that Afghanistan can become a functional, terror-fighting society. PAGE A29
DEAD BODY OF KNOWLEDGE
Medical students can learn anatomy by looking at computer screens, CT scans and M.R.I.'s. But there is no substitute for the hands-on experience of dissecting a human cadaver, writes Christine Montross, a resident in psychiatry at Brown University, in an Op-Ed article. PAGE A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); TALIBAN (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); LITIGATION (86%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); OBESITY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BURN INJURIES (70%); BRIBERY (69%); SENTENCING (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); EMBEZZLEMENT (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); PRISONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MISSOURI, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); TAIWAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (90%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011



1091 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2210 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 THE CRUEL STORIES OF NAGISA OSHIMA (Wednesday and Thursday) A 14-film series devoted to Mr. Oshima, the most famous member of the Japanese New Wave of the 1960s, begins appropriately with two of the early films that put him on the map: ''The Sun's Burial'' (Wednesday), a sympathetic portrait of an anarchic street gang operating in the slums of Osaka, and ''Night and Fog in Japan'' (Thursday), a theatrically stylized account of the failures of the Japanese left, dramatized as the tensions at a wedding party. The series, which features newly struck prints as well as some very hard-to-see titles, continues through April 14. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Dave Kehr) 
 'THE EARLY YEARS -- ERIK NIETZSCHE PART 1' (Wednesday) Lars von Trier wrote and narrated this satirical comedy from 2007 about a naive young filmmaker, dreaming only of making poetic short films about leaves, who encounters the horrid realities of the movie business when he enrolls in the Danish National Film School. Jacob Thuesen directed. (Also on April 4.) At 6:30 p.m., Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 879-9779, scandinaviahouse.org; $9. (Kehr)
 'LOVE ONE ANOTHER' ('DIE GEZEICHNETEN') (Monday) This series devoted to the Danish master Carl Theodor Dreyer continues at the Brooklyn Academy of Music with this rare title, a 1922 feature condemning anti-Semitism, made for a short-lived German studio. The story, adapted from a sprawling novel by Aage Madelung, is centered on a Jewish woman who leaves her Ukrainian shtetl to join her brother in St. Petersburg, only to be caught up in the failed revolution of 1905. The cast includes several members of Stanislavsky's Moscow Arts Theater, including, as an anti-Semitic agitator, the future Hollywood filmmaker Richard Boleslawski. The pianist Donald Sosin will accompany the screening. At 7 p.m., BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 NEW DIRECTORS/NEW FILMS CRITIC'S CHOICE (Monday through Thursday) As a sidebar to the annual New Directors/New Films 2009 festival presented by the Museum of Modern Art and the Film Society of Lincoln Center, members of the New York Film Critics Circle will introduce some favorites from the past: Stanley Tucci and Campbell Scott's ''Big Night,'' presented by Marshall Fine of Star Magazine (Monday); Courtney Hunt's ''Frozen River,'' presented by Lisa Schwarzbaum of Entertainment Weekly (Tuesday); Whit Stillman's ''Metropolitan,'' presented by Armond White of the New York Press (Wednesday); and Neil LaBute's ''In the Company of Men,'' presented by Peter Travers of Rolling Stone (Thursday). (Through April 3.) At 3 p.m., Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr) 
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC' (PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too. (Dargis)
 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways. (A. O. Scott) 
 'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott) 
 'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis)
 'EDGE OF LOVE' (R, 1:50) Booze and jealousy make a toxic cocktail, one that's heavily imbibed in John Maybury's grim drama about the Welsh poet Dylan Thomas and his set. (Dargis)
 'EVERLASTING MOMENTS' (No rating, 2:11, in Swedish) The story, about a working-class wife and mother in early-20th-century Sweden who finds a measure of fulfillment by mastering the art of photography, is a bit familiar and sentimental, but strong acting and an understated visual elegance from the director Jan Troell make this a better-than-average literary costume drama. (Scott)
 'FADOS' (No rating, 1:28, in Portuguese) The veteran director Carlos Saura creates a rousing, often stirring celebration of fados, the soul music of Portugal, that's both a tribute and a performance archive. (Dargis)
 'FRIDAY THE 13TH' (R, 1:30) An undying slasher-flick franchise gets a surprisingly decent reboot in this stylish, playful example of the decapitated-hottie genre. (Nathan Lee) 
 'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. (Dargis) 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screens. (Dargis)
 'GRAN TORINO' (R, 1:56) Once again Clint Eastwood shows everyone how it's done, with a sleek muscle car of a movie set in that industrial graveyard called Detroit about a racist who befriends a besieged Hmong family next door. (Dargis)
 'THE GREAT BUCK HOWARD' (PG, 1:27) John Malkovich stars as the title character in this agreeable show business satire with a warm heart, inspired by the career of the Amazing Kreskin, the 1970s television mind reader who still pops up on the tube now and then. (Stephen Holden)
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. (Dargis) 
 'I LOVE YOU, MAN' (R, 1:45) Judd Apatow's name isn't in the credits, but his DNA is all over John Hamburg's fitfully funny bromance about a wuss (Paul Rudd) who mans up by befriending a guy's guy (Jason Segel). (Dargis)'JONAS BROTHERS: THE 3-D CONCERT EXPERIENCE' (G, 1:16) Strictly for the cult. (Lee) 'KATYN' (No rating, 2:01, in Polish) The great Polish filmmaker Andrjez Wajda's film is a dignified, somber reckoning with one of the central traumas of his nation's history: the massacre by the Soviet Army of nearly 15,000 Polish officers during the first months of World War II. (Scott) 'LAST CHANCE HARVEY' (PG, 1:38) Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson don't make a lot of sense as a screen couple, but there's something irresistible about watching two people fall in love, even in contrived, sniffle- and sometimes gag-inducing films like this one. (Dargis)
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire. (Dargis)
 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. The large supporting cast is also excellent, and includes James Franco as Milk's lover and campaign manager, Scott Smith, and Josh Brolin as Dan White, Milk's colleague on the Board of Supervisors and also his murderer. (Scott)
 'MISS MARCH' (R, 1:30) Road trip to the Playboy Mansion -- and not to read the articles. Zach Cregger and Trevor Moore wrote, directed and star in this not-funny-enough comedy about a boy who falls into a coma right before he gets a chance to deflower his girlfriend. When he wakes up, she's Miss March. (Rachel Saltz)'THE NEW TWENTY' (No rating, 1:32) Whether or not ''30 is the new 20'' -- whatever that means -- this ensemble drama about a mix of Manhattan yuppies and slackers doesn't add up to much. (Lee) 'PAUL BLART: MALL COP' (PG, 1:30) Fat people are funny. Fat people who run into things are funnier. Fat people who run into things and have humiliating working-class jobs? Stop, you're killing me! (Lee)
 'RACE TO WITCH MOUNTAIN' (PG, 1:39) A passable kiddie-action movie, with Dwayne Johnson as a Las Vegas cab driver and ex-convict who becomes the unlikely protector of two blond alien children. (Scott) 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)'REVOLUTIONARY ROAD' (R, 1:59) Sam Mendes directs Kate Winslet and a fine Leonardo DiCaprio in a waxworks edition of the corrosive, furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage in the mid-1950s. (Dargis)
 'SIN NOMBRE' (R, 1:36, in Spanish) Two teenagers, one Honduran, one Mexican, travel together in a story about geographic and moral border crossings from the young American Cary Joji Fukunaga. (Dargis)
 'SKILLS LIKE THIS' (No rating, 1:28) When a failed writer (Spencer Berger) discovers that he has a knack for robbery, his success will appall his closest friends and earn him the admiration of a doe-eyed bank teller (Kerry Knuppe). Drawing much of its energy from an eclectic and fully integrated soundtrack, Monty Miranda's offbeat comedy gazes indulgently on 20-something aimlessness and the comfort of assigned roles. (Jeannette Catsoulis)'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
 'SUNSHINE CLEANING' (R, 1:32) Or better, ''Sundance Recycling,'' since every available indie cliche is thrown into this hapless comedy-drama. Not even the combined charms of Emily Blunt, Amy Adams and Alan Arkin can save it. (Scott)'SUPER CAPERS' (PG) (1:38) A super catastrophe. (Lee) 
 'TOKYO!' (No rating, 1:52, in Japanese) A cramped metropolis of eccentrics living in a futuristic present: that is the image of the Japanese capital evoked in ''Tokyo!,'' a compendium of three surreal shorts whose relationship with one another might best be defined by the exclamation point in the title. (Holden)
 'TOKYO SONATA' (PG-13, 1:59) A distinctly eccentric variant on the family melodrama from Kiyoshi Kurosawa, a genius of dread who brings more than a touch of horror to this story of a salaryman whose downsizing sets off a series of cataclysmic events. (Dargis) 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama from James Gray, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rossellini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams. (Scott) 
 'TYLER PERRY'S MADEA GOES TO JAIL' (PG-13, 1:43) Not that jail can contain her, though neither can Mr. Perry's threadbare melodrama-meets-comedy formula. (Scott)
 'VALENTINO: THE LAST EMPEROR' (No rating, 1:36, in English, Italian and French) Watching the portrait of the extravagant lifestyle of the Italian fashion designer is a little like gorging on chocolate and champagne until that queasy moment arrives when you realize you've consumed far too much. (Holden)
 'WALTZ WITH BASHIR' (R, 1:27) Ari Folman's animated documentary about Israeli soldiers haunted by memories of the 1982 Lebanon war is part memoir, part dream, part combat picture and altogether amazing. (Scott)
 'WATCHMEN' (R, 2:40) Who watches them? Lots of people, I guess. The real question is why. (Scott)
 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cruel Stories of Nagisa Oshima: ''The Sun's Burial,'' set in the slums of Osaka, kicks off this film series -- starting on Wednesday at the Brooklyn Academy of Music -- devoted to Mr. Oshima, an integral figure in the Japanese New Wave of the 1960s.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANUS FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (79%); FILM SCHOOLS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); FESTIVALS (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (88%); DENMARK (70%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1092 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Bakery Owner Is Charged in Wage Case

BYLINE: By JOEL STONINGTON

 BODY:
The owner of an Italian bakery in the Bronx was arrested Thursday on charges that he paid his workers less than the minimum wage and denied them overtime. When the state began investigating, the authorities said, he threatened or fired some of his workers. 
 The owner, Walter Galiano, 57, was arraigned in State Supreme Court on 44 felony and 240 misdemeanor counts including insurance fraud, minimum wage law violations, tax fraud and the illegal withholding of more than $350,000 in wages. 
 M. Patricia Smith, commissioner of the New York State Department of Labor, said a worker at Mr. Galiano's business, the Arthur Avenue Bakery, came forward anonymously and prompted the investigation, which began in 2007. A stop work order was issued last year, but the bakery continued to operate under illegal work conditions, Ms. Smith said. She said the case was handed over to Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo in August 2008.
 ''Some of his workers received, we allege, $55 for an entire day's work that could be between 10 to 12 hours,'' said Mylan L. Denerstein, a deputy attorney general. ''That clearly violates the minimum wage laws as well as the overtime laws.'' New York State's minimum wage is $7.15 an hour.
 Mr. Galiano threatened workers, causing at least 10 workers to retract statements to the Department of Labor, Ms. Smith said. Further, a number of workers lost their jobs during the investigation, either by leaving after being threatened or by being fired, she said. ''I have never seen workers so frightened,'' Ms. Smith said.
 The authorities said Mr. Galiano did not secure workers' compensation insurance for his workers, as the law requires, and cheated the state's unemployment insurance fund out of premiums he owed on behalf of his workers.
 Mr. Galiano pleaded not guilty, and his lawyer, Paul L. Markstein, said his client denied the charges. Mr. Galiano faces up to four years in prison and a $5,000 fine. His bail was set at $50,000 bond or $25,000 cash.
 Maria Gaggi, who answered the phone at the Arthur Avenue Bakery on Thursday, said that she did not believe the charges were valid. She said that she had worked at the bakery, at 2413 Arthur Avenue, for 23 years and was always paid on time.
 A second Bronx business owner was arrested Thursday on charges that he violated labor laws. The charges contend that he paid employees as little as $4 an hour for 12-hour days. The man, Alex Moreno, 35, owner of two Getty gas stations, was arraigned Thursday on 41 felony and 28 misdemeanor counts.
 Mr. Moreno is accused of failing to pay more than $225,000 in wages and of defrauding the state unemployment system. Mr. Moreno, who faces up to four years in prison and a $50,000 fine, had bail set at $100,000 bond or $25,000 cash.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGE VIOLATIONS (92%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RETAIL BAKERIES (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); OVERTIME (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); CRIMINAL FINES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ARRESTS (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); FELONIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); BAIL (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INSURANCE (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); INSURANCE FRAUD (76%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); LAYOFFS (70%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1093 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Giants Say They Sold 70,000 P.S.L.'s

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Giants said Thursday that they had sold more than 70,000 personal seat licenses at the 82,500-seat stadium they are building with the Jets. The remaining unsold P.S.L.'s are in the high-priced club areas, where they cost $7,500 to $20,000 each. 
 ''There's no question the economy has had an effect, but I'm confident we'll be sold out long before we've opened up,'' John Mara, the president and co-owner of the team, said from the N.F.L. meetings in California. ''We have a year and a half to go.''
 The slower pace of selling the expensive seats is similar to the experience of the Yankees, who are trying to sell season tickets in prime locations at $350 to $2,500 per game at their new stadium. The Giants' most expensive club area is the Coach's Club -- 2,113 seats behind their bench -- where licenses cost $20,000 and tickets in 2010 will cost $700 each.
 In all, the three club areas that are not fully sold comprise 9,198 seats.
 One section that requires $20,000 for licenses -- called Field 1, which is opposite the Coach's Club -- has sold out, probably because the tickets cost $160 each. 
 Mara said about 90 percent of the season-ticket holders from Giants Stadium have committed to the licenses -- by paying a 20 percent down payment -- with some agreeing to buy fewer seats than they now have but some agreeing to buy more. 
 No buyer will know their precise seat location until the fall at the earliest; until then they will have a general idea of the area they will be in. ''Some zones have been oversold and we'll have to move some people to their second choice,'' Mara said. The Giants are looking to their waiting list of 133,000 people to sell out the rest of the licenses.
 The Giants hope the licenses will generate after-tax revenue of $185 million, which will be dedicated to paying off the bonds on the $1.6-billion stadium. The Jets, who have not announced the status of their P.S.L. sales, are looking to raise a similar amount.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); TICKET SALES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1094 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Europe, Aided by Safety Nets, Resists U.S. Push on Stimulus

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Victor Homola and Stefan Pauly contributed reporting from Berlin.

DATELINE: VIENENBURG, Germany 

 BODY:
Last month Frank Koppe gathered together all 50 of his employees at Koppe-Apparatebau for coffee, cake and the kind of bad news that has lately become all too familiar. He told them the small company's business, designing and manufacturing custom equipment for industrial plants, had been sliced nearly in half.
 But rather than resorting to layoffs, Mr. Koppe asked half his employees to come in every other week. The government would make up roughly two-thirds of their lost wages out of a fund filled in good times through payroll deductions and company contributions. 
 The program -- known as ''Kurzarbeit,'' which translates as ''short work'' -- and others like it lie at the heart of a heated debate that has erupted on the eve of next week's Group of 20 meeting of industrialized and developing nations and the European Union, creating a rift between the Obama administration and European governments. The United States is pressing for a coordinated package of stimulus plans by member countries to encourage economic growth, something that Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek of the Czech Republic, which holds the European Union presidency, has called ''a way to hell.'' 
 But virtually all European governments, led by budget-conscious Germany, are resisting the American pitch, saying the focus should be on stricter regulation of financial markets. 
 The Europeans say they have no need for further stimulus right now because their social safety nets, derided in good times by free market disciples as sclerotic impediments to growth, are automatically providing the spending programs that the United States Congress has to legislate. 
 Europe's extensive job protections and unemployment benefits are ''bad in the upswing, because firms don't dare to hire people, because then they are glued to them,'' said Hans-Werner Sinn, president of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich. ''In the downswing, it's good if the people are glued to the companies. They keep their jobs. They keep their income. They keep consuming.''
 The German Federal Labor Office projects that it will spend some $2.85 billion this year for more than a quarter of a million people who end up on Kurzarbeit. In comparison, the agency doled out around $270 million last year, as the financial crisis first began to bite, and roughly $135 million in both 2006 and 2007. 
 That is a relatively small amount of money compared with the $787 billion stimulus package passed by Congress, but the Kurzarbeit program's defenders in the German government say it is carefully calibrated to keep people on the payrolls, where shared burdens mean an efficient deployment of resources. 
 The big numbers at the top of stimulus bills -- promises of future highways, for instance -- are not the same as money going into consumers' pockets right now, and from there into cash registers, economists here say. 
 ''While the magnitude of stimulus has been much less in Europe's case, the stimulus has been getting much better traction in Europe than in the U.S. so far,'' said Julian Callow, chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital in London. He cited a German incentive program that gave consumers around $3,400 to trade in old cars for new ones and that had led to 22 percent more auto registrations in February compared with the previous year.
 ''Europe can still do significantly more and needs to do it, but the needs for the U.S. have been much more pressing,'' Mr. Callow said.
 Germany already has generous unemployment benefits compared with the United States. And many German companies give workers the flexibility to save overtime hours, carrying over the pay for a rainy day. In the United States, despite scattered reports of unpaid furloughs and wage cuts, companies still rely heavily on layoffs to control labor costs. 
 As of July 1, Germany's roughly 20 million pensioners are receiving an additional 2.4 percent in the former West Germany and 3.4 percent in the former East, the highest increases since 1994 and 1997, respectively.
 Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, believes the Americans have underestimated the economic impact of the country's two stimulus packages, worth a total of about $110 billion. Indeed, in terms of immediate stimulus, according to calculations by the International Monetary Fund last month, Germany has committed to stimulus spending this year equal to 1.5 percent of the country's gross domestic product, compared with 0.7 percent in France and 2 percent in the United States. According to a report from Bruegel, a research center in Brussels, while Germany churns out 19 percent of the European Union's economic activity, it accounts for 37 percent of the group's stimulus spending. 
 American critics, like Adam S. Posen, the deputy director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, say that Germany needs to do more. ''As a hugely export dependent economy, they have the most to gain from others' fiscal efforts,'' he said, ''and the most at risk if the global trade contracts further -- worse if they are accused of free-riding on leakage from others' programs.''
 Mr. Posen and others argue that while Germany may be doing more stimulus spending than others in Europe, it is counseling other European countries -- many of which share the euro as their common currency -- not to spend their way out of recession either, but to count on their safety nets to do much of the job.
 ''They're the ones who basically browbeat other countries into not spending,'' he said, ''who give intellectual and political backbone to other countries' conservative leanings not to stimulate.''
 Without knowing it, Mr. Koppe's 25 employees are playing their small part in keeping the German economy afloat. But nearly 70,000 employees of the automaker Daimler have been placed on short-hour status. On the bright side, it means they are able to play with their children, tend to their gardens or -- with further government incentives -- receive the kind of advanced training that will make them even more skilled when orders pick up again. 
 Harder times all but certainly lie ahead for Germany. Commerzbank said Monday that it expected the German economy to contract by a shocking 6 to 7 percent in 2009, roughly double earlier projections and the worst decline of the postwar era. Critics of the German government's cautious approach to stimulus fear that because Germany is feeling the brunt of the worldwide recession last, its policymakers are underestimating its force.
 Indeed, to travel between the United States and Germany is to find two countries experiencing the economic slowdown completely differently. The severity of the downturn does not appear to have sunk in yet in for Germans. There was no real estate bubble here, and few people have a substantial portion of their savings or retirement accounts invested in the stock market. The unemployment rate has risen more than a percentage point, to 8.5 percent in February from 7.1 percent last November. But, significantly, the latest figure is still lower than it was just a year ago.
 ''In contrast to America, our social systems are not on the decline right now,'' Mrs. Merkel said Sunday night in a widely watched interview on a television talk show. ''Pensions are not cut, unemployment insurance is not reduced. On the contrary, we can register stable and, in some sectors, also rising expenditures, and this makes me hope that our social market economy will enable us to cope with this complicated situation.''
 Michael Hartmann, 49, a welder here at Koppe and one of the workers on shortened hours, said he and his wife were trying to save, buying cheaper groceries and driving less to save on gasoline, but doing nothing as severe as they would if he were laid off. ''Of course I'm concerned about the reduced wages, but it's better than getting fired,'' Mr. Hartmann said.
 In the meantime, he is learning a complicated welding technique at a nearby vocational school, which he hopes will make him more attractive to his current employer, or others looking for skilled workers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A welder on shortened hours is learning new techniques.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAN-PETER BOENING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Michael Hartmann, whose employer in Vienenburg, Germany, cut his work hours, is using the time off to get more training.(JAN-PETER BOENING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1095 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Recreating His World In Soot, Paper and String

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
James Castle was the artist of silence, grayness and folded cardboard. Silence because he was born deaf and refused to read, write, speak, sign or finger spell. Grayness because of the velvety, overcast drawings he made all his life: extravagantly tonal images of landscapes, farmyards and interiors rendered in a mixture of soot and spit applied to found paper with sticks and rags. Their muted yet solid forms in some way embodied both Castle's silent world and his loyalty to it.
 And folded cardboard because of the flattened yet bulky toylike sculptures -- figures, farm animals, articles of clothing and pieces of furniture -- that Castle made from discarded boxes, string and paper. This detritus he gleaned from the post office and general store that his parents oversaw in their house in an Idaho farming community named Garden Valley. In his understanding of structure, moving parts and the abbreviation of familiar forms, Castle used cardboard as brilliantly as Alexander Calder used wire, but with more corners. 
 Castle was born in Idaho in 1899, nine years after it became a state, and died there in 1977, without ever venturing very far from the three successive farms on which his family lived. He probably never knew the meaning of the word ''artist,'' but he must have sensed his specialness on some level. You can feel his conviction in the drawings and constructions in the two latest New York gallery shows of his extraordinary work, which has been known to the mainstream art world only since the late 1990s. 
 Knoedler & Company has mounted its fourth Castle show, a display of 34 of the atmospheric, intimate drawings that make Castle something like the Vuillard of the American West; the works in this show have not been previously exhibited. Ameringer Yohe Fine Art is showing drawings and constructions, including an especially imposing one of a big, black pram whose square wheels are highlighted with foil. 
 These substantial shows are coincidental and taken together offer compensation if (like me) you missed the lavish Castle retrospective that was mounted by the Philadelphia Museum of Art last fall and that will travel this fall to Chicago and Berkeley, Calif., with a possible final stop in New York.
 Castle's artistry is implicit in his work's consistency, optimism, command of perspective and proportion, and psychological delicacy. His soot medium permitted a singular range of grays -- charcoal blacks to cloudy-day silvers -- as well as variously wet-dry surfaces that suggest charcoal, then ink, then ink wash, then crayon. 
 The constants are a fervent concentration and an affection for both the process and the subject. His many views of the farmstead of his childhood (executed largely from memory) include everything from doorknobs to open vistas, all methodically studied and recorded in a way that makes his environment feel safe and firmly grounded. 
 Castle not only spent most of his waking hours making art, he also fit the classic if not cliched persona of an artist. He was touchy about the reception, display and preservation of his work. He insistently showed his drawings to visitors, wanted a positive reaction and noticed when he didn't get one. 
 As Castle's niece, Gerry Garrow, remarks in a documentary on view at Ameringer Yohe, the less than enthusiastic were not shown anything the next time they visited. (Directed by Jeffrey Wolf and produced by the Foundation for American Self-Taught Artists, the DVD comes with the catalog of the Philadelphia show.)
 Castle's curatorial tendencies included storing much of his art in wrapped and tied bundles, putting his drawings up around the house and objecting if anyone moved them. As Ms. Garrow notes in the documentary, he liked to commandeer empty sheds or chicken coops for use in making and displaying his work. From the film you get the feeling that given more leeway, Castle might have created his own private, diminutive Marfa, a la Donald Judd.
 The pride and pleasure artists take in their efforts is nowhere more evident than when Castle's depicted his own art. Once he had installed his pieces to his liking, he often made drawings of the arrangement. An especially elaborate one at Knoedler shows several drawings mounted on two sides of what appears to be a stall with books that were also his handiwork laid out on the floor. 
 (There are no books in either show, although they appear again in a kind of close-up rendering, also at Knoedler, of the scene in the stall. Made primarily by copying images, words and letters from other books, magazines or comics, Castle's books tend to resemble either school primers or photo albums.) 
 Both shows include drawings of Castle's totemic, square-headed figures, lined up on shelves or the ground and sometimes looking a bit like the denizens of ''South Park.'' At Knoedler one drawing shows a room where repeating drawings of a mountain form a narrow frieze around the tops of the walls. In another interior image at Knoedler a cluster of drawings shares a wall with a chest of drawers and a monumental wood armchair that recurs in several works. 
 At Ameringer Yohe, the chair fills the entire sheet of one drawing, looming upward, like the throne of the Lincoln Memorial. Nearby an especially powerful drawing depicts constructions of Castle's sister Peggy and himself, looking a little like gods who need appeasing. Especially him: the hat suggests Al Capone; the overcoat, Yohji Yamamoto. In one especially self-referential drawing at Ameringer Yohe, Castle gives us a picture of what appears to be a drawing in progress.
 Castle's interest in depicting the built environment has been frequently noted. The world he lived in was like his mediums, very much made from scratch, mostly with the materials at hand. It was also built straightforwardly from repeating units: fence posts and split rails; houses made of logs, planks or clapboard. Indoors there were wood walls, ceiling beams and wallpaper, some of it boldly checkered, and floorboards and flowered carpets, like the one in a drawing of a big front hall with a patterned carpetbag sitting front and center, at Knoedler. 
 Castle brought his world to order with these repeating units, and he shaped, planed and smoothed them, much as they had been in real life. They enabled him to depict the recession of space with unwavering accuracy while also flattening it, creating a marvelous push-pull tension. 
 It is not known if Castle was taught one-point perspective or just picked it up. But actually his compositions are so solid and accurate that it seems quite likely that he had a photographic memory. It is the perfect inborn skill for his silent, carefully shaded vision. 
 ''James Castle Drawings: Vision and Touch'' runs through April 25 at Knoedler & Company, 19 East 70th Street, Manhattan; (212) 794-0550. ''James Castle'' runs through April 18 at Ameringer Yohe Fine Art, 20 West 57th Street, Manhattan; (212) 445-0102. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Castle Drawings: Vision and Touch: is at Knoedler & Company.
James Castle: at Ameringer Yohe Fine Art includes, right, ''Untitled (Pram Construction),'' an undated work by the artist, constructed of found paper, string, soot and ribbon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERINGER & YOHE FINE ART)
''Untitled (Interior),'' found paper and soot, by James Castle, on view at Knoedler & Company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES CASTLE/KNOEDLER & COMPANY)
 ''Untitled (Peggy & James),'' an undated work by the self-taught artist James Castle, at the Ameringer & Yohe Fine Art gallery.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERINGER & YOHE FINE ART)(pg. C31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DEAFNESS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ANIMALS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1096 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Battles Over Reform Plan Lie Ahead

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington, and Louise Story from New York. David Stout contributed reporting from Washington, and Michael de la Merced and Zachery Kouwe from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Outlining a far-reaching proposal on Thursday to rebuild the nation's broken system of financial regulation, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, fired the opening salvo in what is likely to be a marathon battle. 
 ''Our system failed in fundamental ways,'' Mr. Geithner told the House Financial Services Committee. ''To address this will require comprehensive reform. Not modest repairs at the margin, but new rules of the game.''
 On the surface, both the lawmakers who listened to the Treasury secretary and the financial industry's lobbying groups made it sound as if they completely agreed with Mr. Geithner's call for what he described as ''better, smarter tougher regulation.'' 
 But in fact industry groups are already mobilizing to block restrictions they oppose and win new protections they have wanted for years. Even though Mr. Geithner carefully avoided specific details, laying out mostly broad principles for overhauling the system, financial industry groups are identifying issues they plan to pursue and lining up well-connected lobbyists and publicists to help make their cases.
 If history is any guide, Mr. Geithner's proposals will start an equally intense battle among the regulatory agencies themselves -- including the alphabet soup of banking regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve -- to stay in business and enhance their authority.
 It took years to complete past efforts to overhaul regulation of the financial industry -- replacing the Depression-era laws that separated commercial banks from investment banks, for example, and knocking down barriers between the telephone and cable television industries. 
 And those efforts were in some ways easier than the task confronting President Obama and Congress today. Many of the past overhauls were really about deregulation, knocking down legal barriers that had prevented different segments of an industry from competing with each other. 
 By contrast, Mr. Geithner's plan marks the first attempt in decades to drastically tighten the restrictions on industry. It would create a new still-unidentified ''systemic risk regulator'' that would have the authority to scrutinize and second-guess the operations of bank holding companies like Citigroup or JPMorgan Chase, insurance conglomerates like the American International Group and other financial institutions that are deemed too big to fail. 
 Hedge funds and private equity funds, which have been almost entirely unregulated, would have to register with the S.E.C. and tell it about their risk-management practices. Many financial derivative instruments, like credit-default swaps, would come under supervision for the first time. 
 Mr. Geithner's most specific proposal, which Democratic lawmakers hope to pass in the next few weeks, would allow the federal government to seize control of troubled institutions whose collapse or bankruptcy might jeopardize the broader financial system.
 In the months ahead, Mr. Geithner said, he will unveil more detailed proposals to set up a new regime for tighter regulation of most segments of the financial services industry. He has also said the government should more actively regulate executive compensation, not just at companies that are receiving federal bailout money, but at all companies that might be providing incentives for excessive risk-taking.
 ''The days of light-touch regulation are over,'' said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 Mr. Frank said the financial and economic catastrophes of the last 18 months had created a new political consensus in favor of tighter financial supervision. Mr. Frank said he hoped to pass a bill ''very soon'' to give the federal government ''resolution authority'' to seize control, restructure and shut down troubled financial institutions. 
 And he said he hoped to pass a much broader bill along the lines of Mr. Geithner's plan by the end of this summer.
 But administration officials acknowledged that enacting broad financial reforms would provoke political battles that are almost certain to drag on for months, if not years.
 President Obama and his economic team are already trying to navigate between the deep popular anger over reckless financial practices and the pragmatic need to coax support from the financial industry for regulations they almost reflexively oppose.
 On Friday, Mr. Obama will meet with executives from the nation's biggest financial institutions. Bank executives said they expected Mr. Obama to try to sell them on his ideas, and perhaps to encourage them to keep participating in the Treasury Department's Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. Goldman Sachs has signaled that it wants to return the government's money that the Treasury loaned it under that program.
 On Thursday, most industry lobbying groups held their fire and reacted to Mr. Geithner's proposals as if they agreed with him entirely. 
 The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association said on Thursday that it ''has been advocating for many of the same reforms'' and that it ''looks forward'' to developing specific legislation. 
 The Private Equity Council, which represents firms like Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Carlyle Group, praised the Obama administration for its ''plan to comprehensively address systemic risk.'' The American Insurance Association declared that ''we agree with Secretary Geithner'' that the new rules should ''encourage high standards and a race to the top.'' 
 But industry lobbying groups are pushing their own agenda. Edward L. Yingling, president of the American Bankers Association, said he hoped to use the meeting with Mr. Obama to make the case for relaxing mark-to-market rules, which require financial institutions to value their investment securities at current market prices. Banks have argued that the rules are hurting their financial positions.
 Many insurance companies, for their part, are hoping to free themselves from the oversight of 50 separate state insurance regulators. Lobbyists for the retailing and restaurant industry, meanwhile, are hoping to use the banner of financial reform to persuade Congress help reduce the fees that credit card companies charge for processing customer transactions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Our system failed in fundamental ways,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner told the House Financial Services Committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); LOBBYING (75%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1097 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: With No B37, Bay Ridge Gets Too Big

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
New York is a city of speed walkers, but the bus stop on the corner of Third Avenue and Bay Ridge Avenue in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, has the look of a video clip of the city playing in slow motion. On Wednesday afternoon, a petite woman in sunglasses made her way with a cane to a friend who was already at the stop. An elderly woman with a walker also waited, breathing heavily, for the same bus. A heavy-set woman labored to get out of a livery cab that dropped her on the corner, then settled on the bench with a sigh. ''It's good to sit down,'' she said, taking in the sun.
 She knew she could be waiting awhile. The B37 bus doesn't run with any great frequency down in Bay Ridge, but that's fine for many of its riders: seniors with swollen legs, frail hearts or achy knees. Time they have in abundance; what many of them lack is mobility. ''The subway's out for me,'' said Edith Cresci, 86, who was waiting at Third Avenue and 86th Street. ''Up and down the stairs? It's too much. I haven't been to a subway in I don't know how many years.'' 
 Weeks earlier, Ms. Cresci, like so many of her neighbors, signed a petition protesting the service cuts that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted into effect Wednesday morning, including the elimination of the Third Avenue bus that she relies on so heavily. If the changes go into effect this summer, as scheduled, a neighborhood's swath of seniors will be all but housebound, unable to make it two long blocks over to the next closest bus line, on Fifth Avenue.
 Some 3,524 people ride the B37 bus on an average weekday -- a pittance compared with the 56,723 souls that cram onto the M15, the city's most crowded line, up and down the East Side of Manhattan; or the 53,231 on Brooklyn's busiest bus, the B46 between Kings Plaza and Williamsburg; or even the 14,200 aboard the B63, which runs on Fifth Avenue in Bay Ridge.
 But Third Avenue, a bustling street lined with bakeries, pizzerias, candy stores and diners, has enjoyed some form of public transportation since the 1860s, according to Lawrence Stelter, the Bay Ridge Community Board's historian. Before the bus there was an electric streetcar, which started running in 1893. Before that, there was a steam-powered streetcar. And before that, in the 1860s, there was a horse-drawn stagecoach providing access to the 39th Street ferry. 
 So the transportation authority's financial crisis will, unless Albany intervenes, interrupt 145 years of mass transit history, along with the lives of those who depend on the B37 to get them to physical therapy or to the Lutheran Medical Center on 56th Street or to the Food Town down on 92nd that everyone treks to for good, affordable meat.
 Making matters worse, the B16 that some riders take to get to the B63 is scheduled to be suspended overnight. ''We're stranded,'' said Ms. Cresci. As they waited, Ms. Cresci and Anne Manafaro, strangers minutes earlier, compared notes about what the change would mean. Certainly, they agreed, the businesses along Third Avenue would lose a lot of their older clientele. The beauty parlors, the restaurants -- in fact, Ms. Cresci told her neighbor, she had just had a terrific lunch. 
 ''At Casa Calamari?'' asked Ms. Manafaro.
 ''The Greek luncheonette,'' said Ms. Cresci. ''They have a rice with lemon soup that's delicious. I eat there a lot. Potato and eggs on a seeded roll.'' Her voice drifted off mid-reverie.
 ''I'll have to try that,'' said Ms. Manafaro.
 THE casual exchange was a reminder of how public transportation in New York can be not just a way of connecting Point A and Point B but a way of connecting people. It was typical of Bay Ridge, both in its friendly small-town feel and its subject matter -- food is not taken lightly in this historically Italian-American enclave. 
 Ms. Cresci may be getting on, but she still takes pleasure in the fine things her neighborhood has to offer, like a good seeded roll, or a beautician who knows her name. Her scarf, tied elegantly around her neck, suggested that going downtown is not just about the errand, it's about being seen -- witnessed -- and keeping up appearances. But how do you keep up appearances when there's no bus to let you appear?
 If the State Legislature doesn't bail out the transportation authority, said Ms. Cresci, she'll probably shell out money for a car service on special occasions. The rest of the time, she said, ''I'll just have to stay home, that's all.''
 That's all, and that's not enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); FERRIES (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); PETITIONS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); HISTORY (60%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1098 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Digging a Hole Through China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
Chan Shao Zhang is in the race of his life. 
 After four decades of false starts, Mr. Chan, a 67-year-old engineer, is supervising an army of workers operating 60 gargantuan tunneling machines beneath this metropolis in southeastern China. They are building one of the world's largest and most advanced subway systems.
 The question is whether the burrowing machines can outrace China's growing love affair with the automobile -- car sales have soared ninefold since 2000. Or are a hundred Los Angeleses destined to bloom?
 And even as Mr. Chan labors to bind Guangzhou together with an underground web of steel, the city is spreading out rapidly above ground, like a drop of ink on a paper towel. 
 The Guangzhou Metro is just part of a much broader surge in mass transit construction across China. 
 At least 15 cities are building subway lines and a dozen more are planning them. The pace of construction will only accelerate now that Beijing is pushing local and provincial governments to step up their infrastructure spending to offset lost revenue from slumping exports.
 ''Nobody is building like they are,'' said Shomik Mehndiratta, a World Bank specialist in urban transport. ''The center of construction is really China.''
 Western mass transit experts applaud China for investing billions in systems that will put less stress on the environment and on cities. But they warn that other Chinese policies, like allowing real estate developers to build sprawling new suburbs, undermine the benefits of the mass transit boom.
 ''They wind up better than if they did nothing, but it costs them a fortune,'' said Lee Schipper, a specialist at Stanford in urban transport.
 Mr. Chan defended Guangzhou's combination of cars and subways, saying that the city built a subway line to a new Toyota assembly plant to help employees and suppliers reach it. 
 Subways have been most competitive in cities like New York that have high prices for parking, and tolls for bridges and tunnels, discouraging car use. Few Chinese cities have been willing to follow suit, other than Shanghai, which charges a fee of several thousand dollars for each license plate.
 The cost and physical limitations of subways have discouraged most cities from building new ones. For instance, only Tokyo has a subway system that carries more people than its buses. The buses are cheaper and able to serve far more streets but move more slowly, pollute more and contribute to traffic congestion.
 China has reason to worry. It surpassed the United States in total vehicle sales for the first time in January, although the United States remained slightly ahead in car sales. But in February, China overtook the United States in both, in part because the global downturn has hurt auto sales much more in the United States than in China.
 Guangzhou, a city of 12 million people that is also the fastest-growing center of auto manufacturing in China, shows both the promise and obstacles of China's subway extravaganza.
 Mr. Chan helped set up Guangzhou's subway planning office in 1965, when he was straight out of college. Digging started the next year. But the miners gave up after less than 10 feet when they hit granite.
 After that, Mao personally sent China's finest mining and underground construction experts to oversee the digging. But further excavation efforts failed in 1970, 1971, 1974 and 1979. During and immediately after the Cultural Revolution, Communist dogma, poverty and nationalism forced a reliance on inadequate Chinese equipment.
 In 1989, when preparations began for successful excavations, city leaders thought it would be enough to have two subway lines, totaling 20 miles, in an X shape bisecting a tightly packed downtown.
 ''At that point, it was still mostly bicycles and people walking,'' Mr. Chan said. Then, ''in the 21st century, the Guangzhou economy really took off.''
 Today, Guangzhou has 71 miles of subway lines, most of them opened in the last three years, and yet large areas of the ever-expanding city are still distant from the nearest subway stop.
 The city plans to open an additional 83 miles by the end of next year -- and an underground tram system and a high-speed commuter rail system. A long-term plan calls for at least 500 miles of subway and light rail routes, and there are discussions on expanding beyond that.
 China now produces much of the equipment to build modern subways, but the country's infrastructure stimulus spending is drawing in imports as well. Most of the tunneling machines here were made by Herrenknecht of Germany. I.B.M. announced on Wednesday that it had signed a consulting contract for computer tracking of Guangzhou Metro's nearly $3 billion in assets, including convenience stores in subway stations and lighting systems.
 The digging in Guangzhou proceeds around the clock, every day. Men like Wang Jiangka, a profusely perspiring engineer in charge of one of the steamy tunnels, endure sweltering temperatures at the tunneling site, where workers put in five 12-hour shifts a week. 
 ''If they don't want to do overtime, we get other workers,'' Mr. Wang said, standing in a red hard hat next to a Herrenknecht tunneling machine that chewed through the rock more than a one-mile walk from the nearest daylight.
 Inexpensive labor -- less than $400 a month -- and the economies of scale created by completing 20 miles of subway lines a year have driven costs down. 
 Mr. Chan said that it cost about $100 million a mile to build a subway line in Guangzhou, including land acquisition costs for ventilation shafts and station entrances.
 By contrast, New York City officials hope to build 1.7 miles of the long-delayed Second Avenue line in eight years at a cost of $3.9 billion, or $2.4 billion a mile. The city expects to use a single tunneling machine.
 Owners of land needed for subway construction in Guangzhou have few rights compared with those in New York.
 Here, Mr. Chan said, a property surveyor appraises a building and ''whatever he says, that's it.'' But, Mr. Chan added, ''because China is now more democratic, if they don't want to move, then you have to take more time.''
 And time is of the essence. Guangzhou is growing rapidly outward.
 Primly dressed in a white silk shirt and light brown slacks, Kerry Li stood under the 30-foot-tall crystal chandelier in the clubhouse lobby at the Hua Nan Country Garden complex and watched as her 10-year-old son played nearby.
 A bus leaves her gated community in the suburbs and heads for the city, across the broad, muddy waters of the Pearl River, every 15 minutes. But a recently completed subway line under the river goes nowhere near the compound. Ms. Li's husband, a businessman, drives his own car to work every morning, while his wife stays home.
 The lure of cars is hard to resist.
 Chen Hao Tian, a 43-year-old economic planner for the Guangzhou municipal government who worries about the need for mass transit, used to spend a half-hour riding a free bus for government employees to and from work. 
 Then he acquired a silver-gray Honda Accord from the local Honda assembly plant and found he could make the trip in 10 minutes -- and run errands along the way for his wife and 13-year-old daughter, and listen to his favorite music.
 ''On my salary, the maintenance costs are a pressure,'' he said. ''But it gives me great pleasure and the feeling of a higher standard of living.''
 And few subway rides do that, even for those who build them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Digging for the subway expansion in Guangzhou, China, proceeds around the clock, every day, as workers endure sweltering temperatures in five 12- hour shifts a week.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Workers removed mud under the tracks for a subway line last month in Guangzhou, China, a city of 12 million people.
 Guangzhou's subway planning began in 1965. The city now has 71 miles of lines, most of them opened in the last three years.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); CITIES (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); SUBURBS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1099 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: The I.R.S. Will Lower Penalties for Some Offshore Tax Evaders

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Internal Revenue Service, under pressure to bring in money to the faltering economy, plans to give offshore tax evaders a big break.
 The agency announced on Thursday a plan that lowers a penalty levied on wealthy Americans who stash billions of dollars overseas to evade taxes. 
 In another shift, the I.R.S. will generally not prosecute taxpayers who come forward voluntarily, provided they are not drug dealers, arms merchants or others with ill-gotten gains. And it will not assess a 35 percent penalty on money secretly transferred to foreign trusts -- a common method of tax evasion.
 The goal, Douglas Shulman, the I.R.S. commissioner, said during a briefing ''is to get taxpayers who have been hiding assets offshore back into the system.''
 The plan was developed amid a widening investigation into American clients of UBS but will apply to clients of other banks.
 Under the plan, the I.R.S. will cut a penalty for not filing a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Account, known as an Fbar -- something offshore tax evaders have not done, to avoid detection by the I.R.S.
 The current penalty is up to 50 percent of the highest annual balance of each account for each of the last three years -- an amount that can quickly wipe out an investor and still leave him owing taxes and interest. While the number of Americans coming forward this year to disclose hidden assets has doubled, the I.R.S. said, it is still not enough.
 Now, the I.R.S. will reduce that penalty to 5 to 20 percent, depending in part on whether the wealth was inherited. It will also levy the penalty just once, on the highest balance in the accounts over the last six years.
 Still, with many accounts holding securities that have plunged in value because of faltering stock markets, the new lowered penalty will still have some sting. 
 Under the plan, the I.R.S. will also require taxpayers to pay any taxes and interest owed over the last six years. It will also assess either the standard, accuracy-related penalty of 20 percent, or a 25 percent penalty for filing returns late. Taxpayers in the program must also file amended returns for the last six years.
 Americans have six months to take the deal. Those under criminal investigation for tax evasion are not eligible. While some Americans who enter the program are likely to provide information about the bankers, lawyers and accountants who assisted them, such cooperation is not a requirement to participate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); LAWYERS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1100 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Receives $4 Billion Loan From the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund reached a deal with Serbia on Thursday to provide a 27-month, 3 billion euro loan to help the country address its vulnerability to the financial crisis. 
 The agreement for the loan of about $4 billion was announced at a news conference in Belgrade by Serbian government officials and Albert Jaeger, a fund representative. The deal, which still requires the approval of the monetary fund's board in Washington, will force painful budget cuts on Serbia, the country's finance minister, Diana Dragutinovic, told reporters.
 The economy minister, Mladjan Dinkic, said on Wednesday in an interview with the daily Vecernje Novosti that the measures would fall mostly on the public sector, which employs 550,000 workers, versus 1.6 million in private sector.
 ''We will reduce funds for cities and local administrations,'' Mr. Dinkic told the newspaper. ''There will be no new jobs, and those who retire will not be replaced with new staff. The position of state servants will be equalized to the position of employees in the private sector. Various privileges used by public servants will be abolished. No bonuses will be allowed. We will not allow the purchase of new cars. We decided to cut costs as much as possible.''
 The credit crisis dried up foreign investment, straining the government's finances at a time of economic shock. The Belex15 stock market index has fallen 77 percent in 12 months, while government bonds have tumbled. The currency, the dinar, has fallen 20 percent against the euro since its peak in August.
 Serbia's public finances are in relatively good shape, with the public debt at less than 30 percent of G.D.P. The government will use the loan to replenish the central bank's foreign currency reserves, a move meant to stabilize the dinar.
 The I.M.F. expects the Serbian economy to shrink by about 2 percent this year, Mr. Jaeger said, and to be stagnant next year. Many private sector economists expect the decline to be twice that size.
 A day earlier, the fund announced that it was leading a financing package of 20 billion euros for Romania.
 Serbia's Balkan neighbor Croatia is also trying to sharply cut government spending, as it tries to avoid turning to the I.M.F. for help. European countries, including Belarus, Hungary, Iceland, Latvia and Ukraine, have sought the help of multinational lenders since the global economy went into a tailspin last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); BONDS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (79%); LATVIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ICELAND (79%); CROATIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1101 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: PEN Center Sets International Festival

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
The PEN American Center has announced the lineup for its annual World PEN Voices Festival of International Literature, which will run from April 27 through May 3 in New York. Among the events, which will bring together 160 writers from 40 countries, is the Evolution/Revolution reading series on April 29, which will feature Edwidge Danticat, Salman Rushdie and Muriel Barbery, among other authors, reading in their original languages; an April 30 panel hosted by The New York Review of Books, ''The Economic Crisis and How to Deal With It,'' including George Soros,Nouriel Roubini and Paul Krugman, a Princeton professor and columnist for The New York Times; and the PEN Cabaret, a May 2 performance with Lou Reed, Laurie Anderson, Sean Wilsey and other writers and performers. A full schedule can be found at pen.org/worldvoices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (53%); GEORGE SOROS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1102 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: City Jobless Rate Takes Highest-Ever One-Month Leap

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
In the biggest jump in a single month on record, New York City's unemployment rate leapt to 8.1 percent from 6.9 percent in February, the State Labor Department reported on Thursday.
 That rate matched the national unemployment rate for the month and reflected an unprecedented one-year rise from 4.4 percent a year earlier. The rapid deterioration of the city's job market has erased the notion that the region could be insulated from the wave of job losses sweeping across America.
 All told, there were about 335,000 unemployed people in the city, a number reached only once -- briefly -- in more than a decade. It is almost double the 175,000 city residents who were unemployed a year ago. Over the same period, the number of private-sector jobs in the city has dropped by almost 77,000, to 3.13 million, the report showed. 
 ''The city's economy continues to weaken month by month'' and the rate of job loss is still accelerating, said James Brown, an analyst at the Labor Department. ''The job market usually starts to build momentum in February with strong gains every month through June.''
 The city lost about 3,600 jobs in February, a month in which it normally gains five times that number, Mr. Brown said. On average over the last decade, the city added 18,900 jobs each February.
 A wholesale retrenchment on Wall Street and in related professions is being compounded by uncertainty in tourism-related businesses, which usually start hiring in February to prepare for a flock of visitors in the spring and summer, the data showed.
 There were 4,000 fewer jobs in the city's leisure and hospitality sectors last month than in February 2008, the report showed. The number of jobs in retailing declined even more and went down by about 6,000 in the last year. 
 But the cuts in the higher-paying fields of finance and business services have been greater, with a combined loss of more than 40,000 jobs in the past year -- and the effects of the foregone salaries and bonuses are still rippling through the economy.
 Responding to the fast rise in unemployment, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that the city was expanding services to help residents find new jobs and train for new careers. This week, the city started a ''boot camp'' for people who want to start their own businesses.
 ''While the city's unemployment rate has been much higher in past recessions, the rise in February's rate reflects what I hear from New Yorkers in the subway and on neighborhood streets: People are hurting, and they are worried about losing their jobs or struggling to find new ones,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 When normal seasonal fluctuations in hiring are taken into account, the city job loss in February was equivalent to shedding about 17,500 jobs in a month, said Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist for Eastern Consolidated, a real estate investment firm in Manhattan. Ms. Denham said that she did not expect the downward momentum in the local economy to slow ''in the foreseeable future.'' 
 The unemployment rate remained higher last month among residents of in the Bronx (10.8 percent) and Brooklyn (8.8 percent) than Manhattan (7.7 percent). But job losses were rising faster in Manhattan than in any other borough. The number of unemployed Manhattanites has doubled in the last year, while the ranks of the jobless have increased by about 83 percent in the Bronx and 89 percent in Brooklyn
 The government defines the unemployed as people willing and able to work but unable to find jobs.
 New York State's unemployment rate also jumped, rising to 7.8 percent in February from 7 percent in January. That was the highest rate for the state since June 1993.
 ''In the past six months, the state has lost almost 150,000 private-sector jobs, while the state's unemployment rate climbed to its highest level in more than 15 years,'' said Peter A. Neenan, director of the Labor Department's Division of Research and Statistics. ''Outside of New York City, the region's unemployment rate stood at a 25-year high.''
 On Wednesday, New Jersey officials said that state's unemployment rate rose to 8.2 percent in February from 7.3 percent in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1103 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Chief Tries to Stake Out Role in Overhaul

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The head of the Securities and Exchange Commission said Thursday that the agency must play a crucial role as an independent watchdog protecting investors in the new system of financial regulation that is being devised. 
 At a Senate hearing, the S.E.C. chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, staked out the agency's position in the sweeping overhaul of the financial system that Congress and the Obama administration have started. She and senators agreed it could be harmful for an agency, designated as overarching regulator to monitor against risks to the financial system, to become too powerful.
 ''The devil is in the details,'' Ms. Schapiro said in her testimony, adding she was concerned that ''we don't create a monolithic entity'' that would diminish the role of investor protection. A ''college of regulators,'' each overseeing different areas of potential risk according to their expertise, would be constructive in the new system, Ms. Schapiro suggested.
 Such a regime would be relatively decentralized but more rational than the current patchwork system of financial authorities, which dates to the Civil War, supporters say.
 Ms. Schapiro told the Senate Banking Committee the S.E.C.'s independence is essential to ensuring investor protection in a revamped regulatory structure.
 The creation of a so-called systemic regulator to monitor against the risks that plunged markets worldwide into distress last year is a central idea in discussions of the regulatory overhaul.
 The administration presented to Congress on Thursday an extensive overhaul of financial regulation meant to prevent a repeat of the banking crisis that toppled once-mighty institutions and wiped out trillions of dollars in investor wealth. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner did not specify where the authority as systemic regulator should reside, but the administration is expected to support awarding that power to the Federal Reserve.
 ''I get somewhat uneasy about consolidation of all of this,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, the committee's chairman. It would be ''a terrible result'' if other regulators' functions were absorbed by the systemic authority and investor protection suffered.
 Mr. Dodd said he was ''gravitating'' toward the notion of a college of regulators, because there are different kinds of financial risk.
 Ms. Schapiro said the S.E.C., as a regulator with market expertise, ''can perform its critical capital-markets and investor protection functions without compromising the oversight of systemic risk.'' It is the only government agency that has been responsible both for protecting investors and promoting the formation of capital since its creation during the Great Depression, she said.
 As Congress prepares to undertake a sweeping overhaul that will change the face of financial regulation, the Senate panel also was hearing from groups representing state and industry securities regulators, hedge funds, investment advisers and consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); BANK FAILURES (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1104 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: How to Conjure Up $500 Billion

BYLINE: By FELIX SALMON. 
Felix Salmon is the finance blogger at Portfolio.com.

 BODY:
AS recently as October, all it took to get a bailout bill through Congress was a few pieces of strategically placed pork. Back then, the Bush administration could insert into its stimulus bill a tax exemption for a wooden arrow factory in Oregon, and the votes would magically appear.
 The Obama administration must wish it were still so easy. Congress is in no mood to pass anything now, pork nuggets or no. The executive branch has to make do with what it's got. In the case of the bank bailout plan, that means a combination of some leftover funds from last year's Troubled Asset Relief Program bill along with a rather ingenious use of guarantees by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 The F.D.I.C. was created to do what its name implies: insure deposits. Deposits are loans of a kind: when you make a deposit at the bank, you're lending the bank your money, normally at a very low rate of interest. The F.D.I.C. exists to make sure that whatever happens to the bank, you'll always get your money back -- up to a limit of $250,000. 
 Now, however, instead of insuring garden-variety bank deposits, the F.D.I.C. is going to insure extremely risky loans to curious new entities called public-private investment funds. And while banks can always borrow money somewhere, these funds wouldn't be able to borrow at all were it not for that F.D.I.C. guarantee. 
 Imagine going to your local bank and asking for $10 billion to gamble at the Toxic Asset Casino. The bank would say no -- until you showed it a letter from your Uncle Sam saying he'd guarantee the loan. Then, the bank would lend you as much as you'd like. The F.D.I.C. has never taken on this kind of risk before.
 It's not the first time that Treasury has magicked billions of dollars from some hidden back pocket, just to avoid having to ask Congress for the money. In 1995, with Robert Rubin recently installed as Treasury secretary, Lawrence Summers, the deputy secretary, along with Tim Geithner, a deputy assistant secretary, wanted to bail out Mexico in the face of Congressional opposition. They found something called the Exchange Stabilization Fund, originally intended to stabilize the value of the dollar on world currency markets, and managed to repurpose it for another use entirely. 
 It's possible to step back and admire the statecraft in the present case -- there's a certain elegance with which Treasury managed to transform $100 billion in TARP funds into more than $500 billion in cash to inject into the banking system, all the while avoiding any fight on Capitol Hill. It makes the $20 billion found for Mexico all those years ago look like pocket change.
 Yes, it's easy to find serious economic weakness in a plan that puts enormous amounts of government money at risk even as it promises billions of dollars in profits for private investors. But the economics don't exist in a vacuum, and Tim Geithner doesn't live in a world where he can simply do whatever makes the most economic sense.
 Mr. Geithner needed the cooperation of the F.D.I.C., but few federal agencies ever object to an idea that involves expanding their budget and making them more important. In this case, the F.D.I.C., and its chairwoman, Sheila Bair, had particular reason to want to grab as much power as possible: the Obama administration is about to embark on the largest overhaul of the American regulatory infrastructure since the Great Depression. 
 America's patchwork quilt of financial regulators is looking decidedly frayed around the edges, as financial firms dance around what regulations do exist. American International Group, for example, managed to get itself regulated by the toothless Office of Thrift Supervision after buying a Delaware thrift for just that purpose. 
 Chances are that the Federal Reserve, rather than the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other agency, will end up regulating the entire financial system, including banks, brokers, hedge funds and insurers. Then, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and any number of other obscure regulatory animals risk being killed off. 
 The bank bailout plan makes the F.D.I.C. well positioned to survive. Not only will it be an integral part of the new bank bailout, but it is also likely to be put in charge of taking over any failing financial firms that pose a systemic risk -- be they banks, hedge funds, private-equity shops, insurers or even large corporations like General Electric.
 This could be the most far-reaching unintended consequence of Congress's stubborn opposition to any bailout plan. Treasury ended up being forced to find its own way -- and that meant a suboptimal bank bailout scheme, and a vast swath of new powers for the F.D.I.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); CURRENCIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (92%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1105 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Two in Three At G.M. Pass On Latest Buyout Bid

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
More than 14,000 retirement-eligible hourly workers have elected to stay at the financially troubled automaker General Motors rather than leave with a buyout package worth up to $45,000.
 G.M.said in a statement on Thursday that more than 7,500 members of the United Automobile Workers union who work in its factories had accepted the offers by this week's deadline. Most of the workers will leave by April 1. 
 The number is more than double the projection of one analyst but illustrates the difficulty G.M. faces in trying to persuade workers to give up their jobs during a recession, even at a company perilously close to bankruptcy and after the U.A.W. agreed to reduced job-security provisions. 
 But G.M. needs many longtime workers to leave, so it can replace them with new hires earning half as much. The company has borrowed $13.4 billion from the federal government since December and is asking for $16.6 billion more. It must show President Obama's auto industry task force by next Tuesday that it is making progress on cutting labor costs and other aspects of its restructuring plan.
 ''It's a choice between the uncertainty of staying and the uncertainty of leaving,'' said Gary N. Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. ''At this point, the people who are accepting buyouts have turned them down before, so something has shaken them loose. These are really the saddest decisions of all because they know they could have taken a buyout before on better terms.''
 Gary L. Cowger, group vice president for global manufacturing and labor relations, said the buyouts, along with other cost cuts would ''help ensure the long-term viability and future success of General Motors.'' 
 Across town, Chrysler, which has borrowed $4 billion and requested another $5 billion, is also encouraging thousands of its hourly workers to quit or retire with similar but more lucrative packages. Chrysler workers have until Friday to make a decision.
 Mr. Chaison said he expected a higher percentage of Chrysler workers to take buyouts because its chances of going into bankruptcy are perceived to be greater and because the offers are worth more than G.M.'s.
 A buyout window opens April 1 for workers at the Ford Motor Company, which is not taking federal aid but nonetheless has been seeking labor concessions and cost savings after losing $14.6 billion last year, a company record.
 The Detroit automakers have eliminated more than 100,000 jobs since 2006 through buyout and early retirement offers worth as much as $140,000. G.M., at least, had indicated that it was not planning more such programs after the one that ended Tuesday.
 Brian Johnson, an automotive analyst with Barclays Capital, this month estimated that 5 percent of workers at G.M. and Ford would take buyouts. The G.M. figure represents about 10 percent of its 62,000 U.A.W. workers. About 22,000 of those workers are eligible to retire with full benefits, meaning they have been with the company for at least 30 years or are at least age 65.
 According to Mr. Johnson's projections, the departure of more than 6,000 workers would save G.M. at least $784 million a year.
 Five percent of Ford's 42,000 U.A.W. workers would be 2,100.
 The U.A.W. has already ratified cost-saving modifications to its contract with Ford and remains in talks with G.M. and Chrysler. The primary issue still being discussed is the companies' required contribution to a retiree health care fund that takes effect in January. G.M. wants to substitute stock for up to half of its payments, as the U.A.W. has agreed to let Ford do with up to $6.5 billion of its payments.
 G.M. is also eliminating 10,000 salaried positions worldwide, including 3,400 in the United States. It began that process this week by laying off 160 mechanical engineers at its technical center in Warren, Mich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A G.M. plant in Warren, Mich. In a tight job market, more than 14,000 workers elected to turn down the carmaker's buyout offer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (54%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1106 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Technology Shares Help Lift Wall Street

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street extended its biggest winning streak of the year, and stock markets were on track to close higher for a third straight week as positive news from the technology sector kept investors buying on Thursday. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 174.75 points, or 2.3 percent, to 7,924.56 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2.3 percent, or 18.98 points, to 832.86. 
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite rose about 3.8 percent, or 58.05 points, to 1,587, bolstered by Microsoft, Google and Intel. The Nasdaq is now positive for 2009, up 10 points since Jan. 1. 
 The Dow has rallied 21 percent since hitting a bear market low on March 9 but is down 9.7 percent since the start of the year.
 The gains came as the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, asked Congress to pass regulatory reforms. In his opening remarks during testimony before the House Financial Services Committee, Mr. Geithner called for ''new rules of the game,'' saying that sweeping changes to the regulatory system could help prevent future financial crises. 
 A successful auction of seven-year Treasury notes also calmed some concerns after weak demand for debt issues in Britain and the United States the day before.
 Prices of longer-term government bonds improved on Thursday after the Treasury auction, a sign that investors were still interested in government debt, despite worries about waning appetites for huge new supplies coming to market.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.74 percent from 2.78 percent on Wednesday, indicating higher demand. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 13/32 to 100 3/32.
 Agricultural producers, builders and computer makers also lifted the broader markets. Banking stocks were mixed as investors weighed broad new regulations on financial firms. 
 The budding but fragile sense of hope has been driven by recent economic data from the housing market and other sectors, combined with more optimistic profit outlooks from major banks.
 After months of bleak economic reports and stark declines in stock markets, analysts say that investors have been searching for any sign that the economic declines might be leveling off.
 ''Sentiment was so depressed back in early March that it didn't take all that much to turn the market back up,'' said Edward Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. ''It really had started to discount further deterioration in the economy and a possible nationalization in the banking system.''
 On Thursday the government reported that the economy had deteriorated at a sharper pace in the last three months of 2008, but not by much. The Commerce Department reported that the gross domestic product fell at an annual pace of 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter, slightly higher than the previous estimate of 6.2 percent.
 And the Labor Department said first-time claims for unemployment benefits rose 8,000 last week to 652,000, setting the stage for another report with high monthly unemployment numbers on April 3.
 The government-controlled mortgage finance giant Freddie Mac announced that 30-year fixed mortgage rates fell to 4.85 percent for the week that ended Thursday, a sign that efforts to reduce borrowing costs may be taking root. The Federal Reserve has cut its target interest rate to nearly zero, and announced it would buy $1 trillion in securities to help lower mortgage rates.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of seven-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); COMPUTER MAKERS (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1107 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Sighting a Rare Breed At Subway Turnstiles: The Single-Ride Rider

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON; Annie Correal and Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Ian Scott was a human clog at the entrance to the Borough Hall subway station in Downtown Brooklyn, a line of people behind him growing annoyed as he furiously swiped his little white card through the reader. The woman behind him peered at the card, which looked strangely dull instead of shiny, and white instead of yellow. 
 ''That,'' she said, ''doesn't look like a MetroCard.'' 
 Mr. Scott, 47, insisted that in fact it was. The woman said it looked like something that might work on buses. Someone else in line helpfully pointed out, ''It's not working, man.'' Finally a good Samaritan swiped Mr. Scott in with a trusty plastic MetroCard. 
 The card in Mr. Scott's hand did not look like a MetroCard, but it was one, sort of. 
 He is among the roughly 3 out of every 100 subway riders who pay $2 for a single-ride ticket. (They bear the MetroCard logo, but officials at the Metropolitan Transit Authority don't call them anything but single-ride tickets). Since the transportation authority voted on Wednesday to increase transit fares, these riders soon will be paying $2.50.
 Single-ride tickets are the closest existing link to the old subway tokens. They can be bought only at certain machines, and must be paid for with cash; they are spit out of a special hole at the bottom of the ticket machine, separate from the MetroCard dispenser slot. Seconds later, after a single swipe, they are useless, and usually left on the floor near the turnstile, creating a pile like a snow drift. 
 A pay-per-ride MetroCard offers a 15 percent bonus when a buyer spends at least $7. A rider gets a $2.10 bonus, or a free ride, for $14 (about $17 after the fare increase). Asked why the transportation authority did not simply do away with the bonus and charge everyone the same amount, Aaron Donovan, a spokesman, said, ''As a policy matter, we offer the bonus instruments because we believe they encourage New Yorkers to use the system regularly.'' 
 This makes the single-ride ticket a profoundly shortsighted purchase, presumably marketed toward tourists or people on the lam, not workaday New Yorkers. 
 But sadly, many of the people who use them simply cannot afford to buy even a few rides in advance. Scraping together $2 is easier, like buying a single cigarette -- a ''loosie'' -- for $1 instead of a pack for $9 or more. And like the loosie, the single-ride's inexpensiveness masks the fact that it is, in fact, the most costly ride sold.
 For Roy Boney, 54, a homeless man entering the Atlantic Avenue station in Brooklyn, a single-ride was the only option. ''Right now, I can't afford $4,'' he said, referring to the minimum MetroCard purchase (soon to be $5). ''I buy a $2 card when I'm running low on cash. It will be hard when the fare goes up to $2.50, because I use all the money I have to get on the train.'' 
 Until recently, Ruben Torres, 30, of Woodside, Queens, bought unlimited seven-day MetroCards. ''Right now, I just can't afford it,'' he said. ''This is just a bad time for me. One of my brothers is out of work and I'm helping him right now.'' 
 But some can easily afford a MetroCard, and buy the transit loosies anyway. Take John C. Lennon, 29, of Murray Hill, who just doesn't want to be tied down to a MetroCard. 
 ''It takes up space in your wallet,'' he said. ''Just another thing to keep track of.'' He is an avid walker, and estimated that he bought two single-ride tickets a month, spending $48 a year. A MetroCard worth that amount would have included a few free rides, but, he said, he didn't care. ''A 15 percent savings isn't worth it.''
 Several riders interviewed this week cited reasons that could collectively go under the heading Distrust of Technology or of ''the Man.'' 
 ''Sometimes, the MetroCard, it eats my ride,'' said Victor Valentine, 40, a messenger hurrying for the train at Fulton Street in Manhattan on Tuesday night. 
 Les Wallen, who had swiped his single-ride at the same station minutes before, agreed. ''I prefer the single-ride to the MetroCard,'' he said. ''Sometimes it charges you twice.'' 
 Still others, including Mr. Lennon, cited a threat of ''demagnetization,'' a process in which a MetroCard is mysteriously rendered useless. 
 A New York City Transit spokesman, Charles Seaton, said this was very unlikely. ''MetroCards cannot be demagnetized very easily,'' he said. ''It would take an extremely powerful magnet. The strip can be damaged through physical wear and tear. That would make it unreadable.''
 As for double-paying, he said, it most often occurs when a rider is asked to swipe again at a particular turnstile, and moves to a different turnstile instead, leading to two swipes. 
 Many riders do not give the matter as much thought. To Melissa Jamison, 42, the single-ride ticket she was buying was just a stop-gap measure until her employer-provided MetroCard was available the next day. Too many MetroCards in her pocketbook would annoy her: ''You've got to remember which one is the right MetroCard. So I get this.''
 The single-ride ticket versus the MetroCard debate is a contentious one for Leah Graboski, a law student in Brooklyn. ''My boyfriend always gives me a hard time for getting one-timers,'' she said. And her friends make fun of her when they see her buying a ticket. 
 ''It's like, 'Ugh,' '' she said. ''Like that. Usually, other people I'm with have their card ready, they're more organized. I have to rush over to the machine and get my ticket.'' 
 But she has her reasons. One is cost: She lives on about $100 a week. ''I buy it because it's usually easier, because I don't have that much money on me at a time. It's my personal way of keeping track of money.''
 It was pointed out to her that $20 would get her more than the 10 rides she would get for $20 in single-ride tickets, and she said, ''I often lose those little things, and if I have tons of money on it, I'm going to be much more upset.''
 Ms. Graboski's other reason involves the odd little scraps of money that are left on MetroCards. She explained via e-mail: 
 ''I have at least 10 yellow MetroCards lying on my desk at the moment because I have 5, 10, or 15 cents left on them after buying those $7-get-an-extra-dollar cards. The amounts are different because I have refilled and reused some of them. These cards are a nuisance. It's like a pile of pennies sitting on my desk. I regret getting them each time my boyfriend convinces me that it's the 'economical' way.'' 
 Abdul Malik, 42, said the single-rides suited his lifestyle. 
 Asked why he did not want to take advantage of the bonus rides on a MetroCard, he gave the idea the shrug of a classic city skeptic. 
 ''That's just an advertising ploy,'' he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 27 about subway commuters who buy single-ride tickets instead of multiple-use MetroCards referred imprecisely to their availability. While single-ride tickets can be bought only at certain machines, buyers can in fact use debit or credit cards as well as cash; sales are not cash only. The same error appeared in a picture caption in some editions. A reader pointed out the error in an e-mail message last week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Single-ride tickets can be bought only at certain machines and must be paid for with cash. Seconds later, after the swipe, they are useless, and often land on the floor near the turnstile.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1108 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5341 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 BARD GRADUATE CENTER: 'ENGLISH EMBROIDERY FROM THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, 1580-1700,' through April 12. At once revelatory and great fun, this exhibition examines one of the world's most beloved and ancient art forms/crafts/hobbies during one of its golden ages, a time that included mind-boggling turmoil. Given the beheadings, regime changes and warring ethnic and religious factions -- outlined in the show's exemplary catalog -- it is a miracle that anybody had time for anything, much less great needlework. But it was a leading indicator of wealth and status, a means of decoration, a form of moral instruction and a sign of wifely devotion. Glass beads, pearls, raised work, applique and striped ribbons mix with an intimidating array of stitches for effects that are never less than stunning. 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Roberta Smith)20090326 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'HERNAN BAS: WORKS FROM THE RUBELL FAMILY COLLECTION,' through May 24. With a loose, deft touch, this young Miamian paints and draws storytelling images of winsome young men in homoerotically charged situations. He also creates video installations, the best of which involve old films of women in mermaid costumes performing underwater. This disproportionately big and splashy 10-year retrospective was organized by and first appeared (in 2007) at the Rubell Family Collection, a private museum in Miami where the art collectors Don and Mera Rubell exhibit their holdings. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20090326
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'MASTERPIECES OF EUROPEAN PAINTING FROM THE NORTON SIMON MUSEUM,' through May 10. In a rare exchange that inaugurates a reciprocal loan agreement, five paintings from the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif., have been temporarily installed in the Frick's Oval Room. The Simon paintings, which date from the 16th and 17th centuries, bring a whiff of fresh air into the Frick. None of the artists -- two Spaniards, two Italians and one Flemish master -- are currently represented in its collection. Of special note are Francisco de Zurbaran's ''Still Life With Lemons, Oranges and a Rose'' (1633), which has been freshly cleaned for the occasion, and Guercino's commanding portrait of an Italian count's pet mastiff, ''Aldrovandi Dog'' (1625). 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090326
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE HUGO BOSS PRIZE 2008: EMILY JACIR,' through April 15. The first part of this Palestinian-American conceptualist's show is a kind of walk-in scrapbook of photographs, letters, interviews and diaristic texts telling the story of Wael Zuaiter, a Palestinian intellectual who was killed by Israeli secret service agents, supposedly in retribution for the murder of 11 Israeli athletes and coaches by Palestinian terrorists during the 1972 Munich Olympic games. The second part is a memorial to Mr. Zuaiter consisting of 1,000 slender white books, into each of which Ms. Jacir has shot a .22-caliber bullet. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)20090326
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE THIRD MIND: AMERICAN ARTISTS CONTEMPLATE ASIA: 1860-1989,' through April 19. This strange, often beautiful, long-overdue show gives us, as expected, nature, cosmic consciousness and tons of Zen. But there's also enough revisionist thinking to muss up standard accounts of American Modernism. Not everything works; the installation alternates blank stretches with cluttered stretches, and sculpture seems a bit tossed in. But who cares, if you have under-regarded artists like Mark Tobey, Morris Graves, Paul Kos, Natvar Bhavsar, Zarina Hashmi, Tadaaki Kuwayama, Lee Mullican, Gordon Onslow-Ford, Harry Smith, Jordan Belson, James Whitney, Linda Montano, Mark Thompson and Tehching Hsieh to contemplate? There's a lot of bliss to follow here, not the least being that the Guggenheim has, for once, defied the market and gone for a subject still little-known. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Holland Cotter)20090326
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 2009 YEAR OF FASHION, through May 3. Four synergistic shows inaugurate the museum's yearlong focus on fashion photography. Leading off is the snapping, crackling survey ''Weird Beauty: Fashion Photography Now'': a floor-to-ceiling, push-pull installation that clocks the genre as a fast-moving collective expression that is as esoteric as abstract art, and as startling as a sleek, hissing serpent in the drab garden of everyday reality. Stylists, in particular, shine. ''This Is Not a Fashion Photograph'' reveals faces, bodies, garments, poses and style in a century's worth of nonfashion photographs by everyone from Jacob Riis to Malick Sidibe. ''Edward Steichen: In High Fashion, the Conde Nast Years, 1923-1937'' affirms fashion photography's short but definite history by examining in detail how this pioneer more or less invented both fashion photography and celebrity portraiture while working for Vogue and Vanity Fair. ''Munkacsi's Lost Archive'' is less an exhibition than a prelude to one, but it elucidates post-Steichen developments by highlighting Martin Munkacsi, a photographer who set fashion models in motion, further blurring the line between fashion and nonfashion photography. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Smith)20090326
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'KRAZY! THE DELIRIOUS WORLD OF ANIME + MANGA + VIDEO GAMES,' through June 14. This show addresses a vibrant chapter in the history of visual storytelling: a specifically Japanese set of approaches that has gained a worldwide following over the past two decades. It will not live up to its promise for devoted followers of Japanese pop culture, but as a multimedia sampler including comics, graphic novels, video games, action figures, animated cartoons and more, it might entice the uninitiated to explore the field more deeply. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART OF THE KOREAN RENAISSANCE, 1400-1600,'through June 21. The Korean gallery at the Met is a trim, tall, well-proportioned box of light. But it's just one room, and a smallish one at that, a reflection of the museum's modest holdings in art from this Asian country. So no surprise that the expansive-sounding show is a small thing too, with four dozen objects, most of them -- ceramic jars, lacquered boxes, scroll paintings -- compact enough to be stashed in a closet. But what it lacks in grandeur, it makes up for in fineness, and in rarity.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CAST IN BRONZE: FRENCH SCULPTURE FROM RENAISSANCE TO REVOLUTION,'through May 24. Most of the works in this impeccably scholarly exhibition display a cold impersonality, cramped imagination and slavish obeisance to the official culture of their times. But there are compelling exceptions, including small, action-packed sculptures representing episodes in the life of Hercules by Francois Lespingola, and Jean-Antoine Houdon's ''Winter or La Frileuse,'' a heartbreakingly lovely statue of a young woman nude, except for a shawl wrapped around her bowed head and shoulders.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'CHOIRS OF ANGELS: PAINTING IN ITALIAN CHOIR BOOKS, 1300-1500,'through April 12. The transition from medieval to Early and High Renaissance painting is told in a new way with a series of small, gemlike images that originally decorated illuminated initials in Italian choir books. The vividly colored scenes turned the initials into little stages, while running the gamut of biblical narratives. (Depictions of martyrdom were big.) They are the work of anonymous monks and of well-known painters like Lorenzo Monaco and Sano di Pietro.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE ESSENTIAL ART OF AFRICAN TEXTILES,'through April 5. This show presents 19th-century African textiles, many lent by the British Museum, alongside relevant contemporary artworks from the Met's collection. One of the most spectacular pairings matches El Anatsui's ''Between Earth and Heaven,'' a recent acquisition, with a kente prestige cloth from Ghana. The Met's 2005 exhibition ''Matisse: The Fabric of Dreams'' hinted that textiles had been undervalued in the Western canon; while the current show may not have the same blockbuster appeal, it goes deeper into the techniques and traditions that make the fabrics so striking and seductive.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PIERRE BONNARD: THE LATE INTERIORS,'through April 19. This sumptuous show presents around 40 of the interiors and still lifes that Bonnard painted between 1923 and his death early in 1947, a time usually identified with the Bather paintings that are considered his masterpieces. Those works are missed here, but not terribly. Compensation comes mainly from some nearly abstract still lifes and several large canvases in which Bonnard combines still life, interior, landscape and painting-within-painting into a fabulous optical puzzle. The images expand time through their pictorial complexity, saturated colors and shifting textures, as well as through the semi-hidden figures whose sudden appearances -- even though they've been there all along -- suggest events unfolding.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'RAPHAEL TO RENOIR: DRAWINGS FROM THE COLLECTION OF JEAN BONNA,'through April 26. Candy box displays like this show of 120 European drawings are natural crowd pleasers, and for obvious reasons. They're very much about comparison shopping and personal taste. Relax-and-browse is their operative mode. And if they are confections, their flavor has range and intensities, from soft-center sugary to dense bittersweet. History is here if you want to find it; but if you don't, that's O.K. Enjoy.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,'through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090326
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'WALKER EVANS AND THE PICTURE POSTCARD,'through May 25. This compact exhibition, the first drawn from the museum's extensive Walker Evans archives, unforgettably illuminates Evans's lean, influential documentary style: the picture postcards he collected from age 12 onward, an ultimate collection of 9,000 examples organized by subject. The show includes some 700 arranged in expanses that bring to mind Conceptual Art. Most visually rewarding is a smattering of his photographs, seen beside the postcards he made from them, for an unrealized project with the Museum of Modern Art. He was fearless about cropping, and often made outstanding images even better.(212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090326
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ON THE MONEY: CARTOONS FOR THE NEW YORKER,' through May 24. Go to this exhibition and you will see not only how money is like a cartoon, but also how cartoons shed light on money. In more than 80 drawings, the complexities of economic theory dissolve into the far more pungent currency of social relations, of status and snobbery, pretense and pride, distilling finance to its human essence. Money becomes a chit in the social game, a medium of exchange in a world careering between boom and bust. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Edward Rothstein)20090326
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'THE THAW COLLECTION OF MASTER DRAWINGS: ACQUISITIONS SINCE 2002,' through May 3. The Thaw Collection of Master Drawings, promised to the Morgan Library & Museum, has been introduced to the public in a series of exhibitions since 1975, each reflecting the latest additions by the former art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare. This installment of 80 recently acquired drawings from the past five centuries is a bit smaller than the last one in 2002-3, though it includes sure-to-please works by Ingres, Gauguin and others. Many selections reflect the Thaws' passion for 19th-century German Romantic art, which may not be for all tastes. The curators make the most of this historically unbalanced group, however, sketching out a pragmatically loose chronology. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20090326
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'SECOND LIVES: REMIXING THE ORDINARY,' through April 19. The inaugural show in the Museum of Arts and Design's jewel-box-like building continues its haphazard segue from a concentration on craft to a hipper, more wide-ranging program. Unfortunately, the focus is a strategy that is epidemic in the larger art world: the massing of something small (plastic spoons, ladies' pumps, spools of thread, dangling eyeglasses) into something large (a pyramid, a love seat, a view of the ''Mona Lisa,'' a chandelier). It is Surrealism 101, descended from Meret Oppenheim's beloved and far too influential fur-lined teacup. Basically, you see the thing. You see the things it is made of. Something in the way of a punch line follows. 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Smith)20090326
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MARTIN KIPPENBERGER: THE PROBLEM PERSPECTIVE,'through May 11. The career of the German artist Martin Kippenberger, who died in 1997 at 44, was a brief, bold, foot-to-the-floor episode of driving under the influence. What was he high on? Alcohol, ambition, disobedience, motion, compulsive sociability, history and art in its many forms. But art in its many forms was exactly what he made -- specifically paintings, drawings, sculptures, photographs, prints, posters, books -- all in madly prolific quantities. In every sense, he took up a lot of space, and he continues to in this first American retrospective, which spills out of top-floor galleries and down into the atrium. Not everything has equal punch. If messy and bad aren't your thing, and pristine objects are, he's not the artist for you. Yet in each work, the model he set for what an artist can be and do shines through.(212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20090326
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 1: TEHCHING HSIEH,'through May 18. This small, gripping exhibition -- the first in a series dedicated to performance art -- centers on the documentation of ''Cage Piece'' (1978-79), the first of five ''One Year Performances'' by the deprivation-prone Taiwanese artist Tehching Hsieh. The piece entailed spending one year doing absolutely nothing in nearly solitary confinement in a cell-like cage, built in the artist's studio. The show includes the cell, as well as daily photographs of the artist that measure the year in the growth of his hair. Few performance pieces communicate the demands of this particular genre in such a basic, resonant way, or its ability to expand our understanding of time and space with such simple force.(212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090326
 NEUE GALERIE: 'BRUCKE: THE BIRTH OF EXPRESSIONISM IN DRESDEN AND BERLIN, 1905-1913,' through June 29. The original bad boys of 20th-century German art are featured in this visually aggressive show, specifically Erich Heckel, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Max Pechstein and their driven, putative leader, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. Together they revived a rawness of feeling, form and execution that had been largely absent from European art since the Middle Ages, but they also unleashed a palpable Dada swagger before Dada. As their dreams had not yet been trammeled by World War I, theirs was still a fairly cheerful barbarism, based on the belief that they could retrieve what was good and natural in the world if they just took off their clothes, danced around a bit and made art. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)20090326
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s, and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Neverneverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090326
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 5. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090326
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'ALEX BAG,'through April 12. Alex Bag's videos take aim at television in all its forms: the infomercial, the reality show, the nature documentary, even the children's programs hosted in the 1960s and '70s by Ms. Bag's mother, Carol Corbett. In her latest video, commissioned by the Whitney Museum and on view in its lobby gallery, Ms. Bag reimagines her mother's work from her own jaded 21st-century perspective. The mock show is hosted by an ''off my meds'' depressive (Ms. Bag) with narcoleptic tendencies. Its supporting cast includes a wisecracking puppet, a strung-out folk singer in a wheelchair, a creepy animal handler and a witchy doppelganger who resembles a character from Ms. Bag's 2004 video ''Coven Services.''(212) 570-3600, whitney.org.20090326
 (Karen Rosenberg)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'JENNY HOLZER: PROTECT PROTECT,'through May 31. After decades of pelting us with unsettling, increasingly relevant portents, Jenny Holzer can say, ''I told you so.'' This 15-year survey proves that her signature LED-sign conflations of poetry, politics, reading and seeing are ever more dazzling; her warnings about the military-commercial-entertainment complex ever more pertinent. In addition, as time has overtaken her, Ms. Holzer has turned from soothsaying to simply reporting the facts. Her latest light works and paintings take their language and motifs entirely from declassified and redacted government documents concerning the war in Iraq. This is a beautiful show, but not a pretty sight.(212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090326
 Galleries: 57th Street
 ROBERT MANGOLD: 'DRAWINGS AND WORKS ON PAPER 1965-2008,' through April 4. This survey of works on paper starts in the 1960s, when Mr. Mangold was a Minimalist of a ticklish sensibility, prepared to introduce a note of absurdity, not to say comedy, into geometry. In his early drawings he inserted subliminal kinks in grids, disturbed circles with bumps; he drew diagrammatic forms of Euclidean logic only to leave one line dangling loose. Taken in isolation, few of the abstract images are particularly gripping. But arranged together, salon-style, across the gallery wall, their invention and variety are a thrill. 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, pacewildenstein.com. (Cotter)20090326
 Galleries: Chelsea
 PAUL SHARITS, through April 11. This historic show restores to full four-projector glory ''Shutter Interface,'' a lush, anarchic structuralist masterpiece from 1975 that is almost never seen whole. Frames of changing saturated color speed past, blur and also jump -- thanks to blacked-out frames signaled by high-frequency bleeps. The physical properties of film, brilliantly exploited, achieve a perfectly logical delirium. Equally enveloping is a display of 50 works on paper that encapsulate the working methods, obsessions and explosive sensibility of Mr. Sharits, who died in 1993 at 50. Greene Naftali, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com. (Smith)20090326
 Galleries: SoHo
 JON KESSLER: 'KESSLER'S CIRCUS,' through April 4. In a nod to Alexander Calder's similarly inventive but emotionally very different ''Circus,'' Mr. Kessler has installed funky, motorized and video-equipped contraptions, in most of which G.I. Joe-type dolls are subjected to sadistic abuse under a big top in the form of a green Army surplus tent. With all their moving parts exposed, they give the impression of works by an ingenious, possibly crazy Iraq war veteran. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Johnson)20090326
 Galleries: Other
 'DAMAGED ROMANTICISM'through April 12. The theme of this group show will be familiar to viewers of the 2006 Whitney Biennial, ''Day for Night,'' and the New Museum's 2008 group show ''After Nature.'' Those exhibitions struck a political and environmental chord, one that echoes faintly here. Many works hint at apocalyptic fantasies, or what the curators call ''an aftermath aesthetic.'' Some choices feel too predictable (Edward Burtynsky and Sophie Calle), others glamorously irrelevant (Wangechi Mutu and Angelo Filomeno). Jesper Just's videos are a bright spot, reminding us that good artists (the original Romantics included) have always been able to accommodate conflicting emotions. The show, which originated at the Blaffer Gallery at the University of Houston, is now split between two museums: Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart (through April 4) and Parrish Art Museum, 25 Job's Lane, Southampton, (631) 283-2118, parrishart.org (through April 12).(Rosenberg)20090326
 ZOE LEONARD, through April 12. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has a two-part exhibition at the Hispanic Society of America in Washington Heights, organized under the auspices of the Dia Art Foundation, and another at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. They are different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, they share a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Through Sept. 7 at Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. Hispanic Society of America, Audubon Terrace, Broadway between 155th and 156th Streets, Washington Heights, N.Y., (212) 926-2234, hispanicsociety.org. (Cotter)20090326
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA: 'DIRT ON DELIGHT: IMPULSES THAT FORM CLAY,' through June 21. Ignoring the art-craft divide, this bold show examines ceramics in its own right. With George Ohr as Jackson Pollock, it ranges from postwar greats like Peter Voulkos and Ken Price, to younger eminences like Adrian Saxe and Arlene Shechet, to new arrivals like Sterling Ruby, Jessica Jackson Hutchins and Jeffry Mitchell. The clash of approaches to beauty, technique, scale, color and finish is exuberantly edifying. It foments hope that the Minimal-Conceptual-Relational art religion (important as it is) could wither away, and curators of contemporary art could regain full use of their eyes and thus their brains. 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, P.A., (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Smith)20090326
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHEPARD FAIREY: SUPPLY AND DEMAND,' through Aug. 16. The surprise of the first museum retrospective for the creator of the Obama Hope poster is that almost everything he does, from abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his album covers for Led Zeppelin and other bands, is visually arresting. But in tracking his 20-year evolution from aesthetic anarchist to savvy, all-purpose designer and illustrator, the exhibition inadvertently casts doubt on his authenticity as a radical street artist. 100 Northern Avenue, Boston, (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org. (Johnson)20090326
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'PRIDE OF PLACE: DUTCH CITYSCAPES OF THE GOLDEN AGE,' through May 3. There is nothing like a beautiful city, and there are several, lovingly painted, in this quiet, gorgeous exhibition. The display of 48 paintings, 22 maps and assorted atlases and printed books includes works by Jan van Goyen, Gerrit Berckheyde, Jan van der Heyden, Jacob van Ruisdael and other preternaturally skillful painters of intensely realistic yet idyllic images of cities and towns viewed from far and near. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, D.C., (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)20090326
 Last Chance
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE SEDUCTION OF LIGHT'; closes on Sunday. Comparisons may be invidious, but they can also be illuminating. Consider this small, tightly focused exhibition of portraits by the 19th-century American folk artist Ammi Phillips and paintings by the 20th-century Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko. The presentation reveals parallel ways of dealing with surface, color and light. It also reveals two painters who were, each in his own pragmatic yet metaphysically resonant way, distinctly American artists. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. 20090326
 (Johnson)
 'BROKEN THORN SWEET BLACKBERRY'; closes on Saturday. Work by good artists in this group show, organized by Sima Familant, includes Maria Nazor's feminized Lucio Fontanas; Erin Shirreff's Warholized Ansel Adams; Wilfredo Prieto's precious pile of plastic gems; and William Cordova's tribute to Oscar Wilde, Oscar Romero and Oscar Grant, who was shot by the police in a San Francisco subway station earlier this year. Kelly Barrie's twisty trees, Kay Rosen's stretched words and a mordant William Pope.L sampler round things out. Sikkema Jenkins & Company, 530 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-2262, sikkemajenkinsco.com. (Cotter)20090326
 PHILIP-LORCA DICORCIA: 'THOUSAND'; closes on Saturday. A master of large-scale, spookily artificial and more or less staged photographs emerges as a real, flesh-and-blood artist in this riveting show of 1,000 tiny Polaroids from the past 25 years. Installed edge to edge on a narrow aluminum shelf, they wrap around the gallery into a specially built spiral that only intensifies the viewing experience. Recording a life while covering all the basic pictorial conventions, they are at once magical and mundane. Their sureness, quickness and jewel-like clarity astound. Artifice is in the bones yet set free. David Zwirner Gallery, 525 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Smith)20090326
 GAIL ALBERT HALABAN: 'OUT MY WINDOW'; closes on Saturday. Alfred Hitchcock's ''Rear Window'' comes to mind when you look at Ms. Halaban's large color photographs. Most depict New York apartment buildings viewed from opposite windows. There are people in some of the apartments. None are doing anything exciting; there's no sex or violence. But being able to see from afar into the private worlds of ordinary people produces voyeuristic and slightly melancholy feelings, as do certain paintings by Edward Hopper. Robert Mann Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-7600, robertmann.com. (Johnson)20090326
 XYLOR JANE: 'N.D.E.'; closes on Sunday. Beside the requisite senses of touch, color and craft, this painter works from a private mathematics in which prime numbers, calendars and time's passage -- expressed via grids of dotted color -- figure large. The dots form columns of numbers and abstract patterns or submerged ones. The show's title stands for Near Death Experience, in reference to one Ms. Jane recently had. It may have made her art more diverse, focused and assured. Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, near Hester Street, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, canadanewyork.com. (Smith)20090326
 LEON KOSSOFF: 'FROM THE EARLY YEARS, 1957-1967'; closes on Saturday. This handsome show largely introduces us to the early efforts of an important British painter, with 10 paintings -- mostly portraits or figures -- made by Mr. Kossoff while in his 30s. His thick, encrusted style indicates that there were more ways than Jackson Pollock's to get physical with paint. The effect is at first lumbering, but turns quickly, subtly accurate in all senses. Like the artist himself, you are forced to discover the figures and to some extent their psychological states in the agitated paint. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com. (Smith)20090326
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PROTECTING THE WORD: BOOKBINDINGS OF THE MORGAN'; closes on Sunday. J. P. Morgan collected omnivorously in many areas, but he might have loved books and their bindings above all else. Thus -- the recent name change notwithstanding -- he founded a library, not a museum. This sumptuous exhibition presents 55 of that library's finest bookbinding treasures, including several purchased by Morgan himself. In jeweled metalwork, tooled and mosaic leather, and illuminated and printed volumes dating from the 9th to the 20th centuries, the books and their helpful labels trace the entwined histories of a fascinating art form, the spread of human knowledge (and bibliophilia) and one of the handiest and most civilizing of humanity's inventions. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20090326
 THE NEW MUSEUM: 'THE THREE M PROJECT: NEW COMMISSIONS'; closes on Sunday. Visitors have found the New Museum strangely empty for the last few weeks. On view is the remaining section of three newly commissioned works: a wall of graphics promoting the magazine Urban China. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090326
 ERIK PARKER: 'CRISIS CREATION'; closes on Saturday. Working under the influence of acid rock posters, underground comics, Mad magazine, Ed (Big Daddy) Roth, Giuseppe Arcimboldo and Peter Saul, Mr. Parker has created a series of zany, neon-bright, imaginary portraits: goggle-eyed heads that are disintegrating into spaghettilike strands and countless little blobs. Viewing them is like seeing into a mirror through the eyes of a furiously hallucinating drug fiend. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20090326
 CAROLEE SCHNEEMANN;closes on Saturday. Simultaneous historical shows at two galleries explore aspects of the career of one of the most daring, and personally unsparing, contemporary American artists, one who early on helped define how feminist thinking, feeling and acting would change art for good. Several of Ms. Schneemann's 1970s performances have, in documentary form, long since entered the history books. Her painting, beginning in the 1950s, can be seen as a forerunner of her performance work. Her art is still a problem for some people, too personal, too visceral, too something, which is an excellent sign. ''Performance Photographs from the 1970s,'' Carolina Nitsch Project Room, 534 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-2030, carolinanitsch.com. ''Painting, What It Became,'' P.P.O.W. Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 647-1044, ppowgallery.com.(Cotter)20090326

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); ART COLLECTING (79%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (78%); DOGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1109 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Winnable War

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: Khyber Pass, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
 I came to Afghanistan skeptical of American efforts to transform this country. Afghanistan is one of the poorest, least-educated and most-corrupt nations on earth. It is an infinitely complex and fractured society. It has powerful enemies in Pakistan, Iran and the drug networks working hard to foment chaos. The ground is littered with the ruins of great powers that tried to change this place.
 Moreover, we simply do not know how to modernize nations. Western aid workers seem to spend most of their time drawing up flow charts for each other. They're so worried about their inspectors general that they can't really immerse themselves in the messy world of local reality. They insist on making most of the spending decisions themselves so the ''recipients'' of their largess end up passive, dependent and resentful. 
 Every element of my skepticism was reinforced during a six-day tour of the country. Yet the people who work here make an overwhelming case that Afghanistan can become a functional, terror-fighting society and that it is worth sending our sons and daughters into danger to achieve this.
 In the first place, the Afghan people want what we want. They are, as Lord Byron put it, one of the few people in the region without an inferiority complex. They think they did us a big favor by destroying the Soviet Union and we repaid them with abandonment. They think we owe them all this. 
 That makes relations between Afghans and foreigners relatively straightforward. Most military leaders here prefer working with the Afghans to the Iraqis. The Afghans are warm and welcoming. They detest the insurgents and root for American success. ''The Afghans have treated you as friends, allies and liberators from the very beginning,'' says Afghanistan's defense minister, Abdul Rahim Wardak.
 Second, we're already well through the screwing-up phase of our operation. At first, the Western nations underestimated the insurgency. They tried to centralize power in Kabul. They tried to fight a hodgepodge, multilateral war.
 Those and other errors have been exposed, and coalition forces are learning. When you interview impressive leaders here, like Brig. Gen. John Nicholson of Regional Command South, Col. John Agoglia of the Counterinsurgency Training Center and Chris Alexander of the U.N., you see how relentless they are at criticizing their own operations. Thanks to people like that, the coalition will stumble toward success, having tried the alternatives.
 Third, we've got our priorities right. Armies love killing bad guys. Aid agencies love building schools. But the most important part of any aid effort is governance and law and order. It's reforming the police, improving the courts, training local civil servants and building prisons. 
 In Afghanistan, every Western agency is finally focused on this issue, from a Canadian reconstruction camp in Kandahar to the top U.S. general, David McKiernan.
 Fourth, the quality of Afghan leadership is improving. This is a relative thing. President Hamid Karzai is detested by much of the U.S. military. Some provincial governors are drug dealers on the side. But as the U.N.'s Kai Eide told the Security Council, ''The Afghan government is today better and more competent than ever before.'' Reformers now lead the most important ministries and competent governors run key provinces. 
 Fifth, the U.S. is finally taking this war seriously. Up until now, insurgents have had free rein in vast areas of southern Afghanistan. The infusion of 17,000 more U.S. troops will change that. The Obama administration also promises a civilian surge to balance the military push.
 Sixth, Pakistan is finally on the agenda. For the past few years, the U.S. has let Pakistan get away with murder. The insurgents train, organize and get support from there. ''It's very hard to deal with a cross-border insurgency on only one side of the border,'' says Mr. Alexander of the U.N. The Obama strategic review recognizes this.
 Finally, it is simply wrong to say that Afghanistan is a hopeless 14th-century basket case. This country had decent institutions before the Communist takeover. It hasn't fallen into chaos, the way Iraq did, because it has a culture of communal discussion and a respect for village elders. The Afghans have embraced the democratic process with enthusiasm. 
 I finish this trip still skeptical but also infected by the optimism of the truly impressive people who are working here. And one other thing:
 After the trauma in Iraq, it would have been easy for the U.S. to withdraw into exhaustion and realism. Instead, President Obama is doubling down on the very principles that some dismiss as neocon fantasy: the idea that this nation has the capacity to use military and civilian power to promote democracy, nurture civil society and rebuild failed states. 
 Foreign policy experts can promote one doctrine or another, but this energetic and ambitious response -- amid economic crisis and war weariness -- says something profound about America's DNA. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMIES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (50%); PRISONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1110 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: A Downturn Wraps a City In Hesitance

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
Over the last four decades, Powell's Books has swelled into the largest bookstore in North America -- a capacious monument to reading that occupies a full square block of this often-drizzly city. But this year, growth has given way to anxiety. 
 Michael Powell, the store's owner, recently dropped plans for a $5 million expansion. An architect had already prepared the drawings. His bankers had signaled that financing was available. But the project no longer looked prudent, Mr. Powell concluded -- not with sales down nearly 5 percent, stock markets extinguishing savings, home prices plunging and jobs disappearing.
 ''It's going to take a period of time to recover,'' Mr. Powell said. ''Whether it's 2 years or 10 years I don't know, but I don't think it's going to be quick. People are nervous.''
 Throughout the American economy, retrenchment is begetting retrenchment. Falling home prices, weak consumer spending, diminishing investment and a fresh reappraisal of risk are combining to bring more of each. Grim expectations about the future are becoming self-fulfilling prophesies, as nervous companies cancel investments and households defer purchases. 
 This vengeful dynamic was the main problem that policy makers failed to tame nearly 80 years ago, when a banking crisis swelled into the Great Depression. As the Obama administration confronts what some economists describe as perhaps the worst downturn since then, the same constellation of forces appears at play. 
 Even as stock markets have rallied in recent days on hopes that the latest government plan to rescue the banks can finally restore order to the financial system, this fundamental problem continues to constrict the economy. Credit remains tight for troubled households and businesses, while even those able to borrow often demur because they are afraid to invest and spend in the face of so much uncertainty.
 The needed ingredients to change this psychology are unclear, and history underscores the difficulties. Economists suggest the same forces now pushing the economy into a downward spiral must be reversed; housing prices must level off, stock markets stabilize and consumers -- now deferring purchases of items like cars and appliances -- must start to replace older models. 
 Banks now confront accusations of clinging to their money, depriving the economy of growth, while the picture, as Mr. Powell attests, is more complicated. Even banks that are eager to lend find some of their best customers reluctant to extend themselves.
 ''The problem is trying to get qualified people to borrow,'' said Raymond P. Davis, president and chief executive of Umpqua Bank, a regional lender based in Portland.
 As goods pile up unsold, demand weakens and expectations of lean months ahead cause businesses to cut production, the downward spiral is prompting nervous comparisons with Japan's so-called lost decade of the 1990s. Then, as now, a collapse in real estate prices left banks in tatters. Even as Japan's central bank dropped interest rates to zero in a bid to spur growth, it had little effect because companies and households were too fearful to borrow. These days, the Fed's target for interest rates is near zero, yet even healthy American companies are hunkered down. Even wealthy households are cutting back.
 The $787 billion stimulus spending bill signed by President Obama last month is expected to generate fresh demand for goods and services. If the financial system plan is successful at removing the detritus of the real estate bust from bank balance sheets, this, too, could substantially alleviate the crisis. But the ultimate question is whether these measures can crystallize confidence in the future, so businesses and ordinary people resume transacting, generating fresh opportunities throughout the economy. 
 ''You could fix all the problems in the financial system and we'd still spiral down because of the problem of expectations,'' said Joe Cortright, an economist at a Portland-based consulting group, Impresa Inc. 
 Portland, a metropolitan area of 2.2 million people, affords an ideal window onto the spiral of fear and diminished expectations assailing the economy. The area has long attracted investment and talented minds with its curbs on urban sprawl, thriving culinary scene and life in proximity to the Pacific Coast and the snow-capped peaks of the Cascades. In good times, Portland tends to grow vigorously, elevated by companies like the computer chip maker Intel -- which employs 15,000 people in the area -- and the athletic clothing giant Nike.
 But in recent months, Portland has devolved into a symbol of much that is wrong. Housing prices have fallen more than 14 percent since May 2007, according to the S.& P./Case-Shiller index. Foreclosures more than tripled last year, according to RealtyTrac. The unemployment rate for the metro area surged from 4.8 percent at the end of 2007 to 9.8 percent in January 2009, according to the Labor Department. 
 With a major deepwater port on the Columbia River, Portland has benefited from the growth of global trade, gaining jobs for stevedores, truckers and warehouse workers. But as the global recession tightens, Portland's docks are a snapshot of diminishing fortunes.
 On a recent day, parking lots at the port were full of 30,000 automobiles that had been shipped in from Japan and South Korea, yet sat unclaimed by dealerships as sales plummeted. Volumes of so-called bulk minerals -- including potash, a fertilizer that arrives by rail from Canada and is then shipped to China -- have fallen off by more than 12 percent over the past year. Docks once jammed with shipping containers showed gaps between the stacks, reflecting diminishing demand for Asian-made furniture and clothing. 
 ''We're going to have to recalibrate to a new normal, and it will be lower,'' said Sam Ruda, the port's director of marine and industrial development.
 As trade slows, so does business for Greenbrier Companies, an Oregon-based manufacturer of rail cars. General Electric is seeking to renegotiate a huge order, an eight-year deal worth more than $1 billion.
 Greenbrier relies upon a $100 million line of credit from Bank of America to buy raw materials and pay workers while it waits to collect from its customers. But with the potential loss of business from G.E., the company worries that the bank will view its credit line as a risk and demand significantly higher interest rates. 
 ''If you had to go and renegotiate the terms of debt today, they'd rip your face off,'' said William A. Furman, Greenbrier's president and chief executive. 
 With that fear in mind, Mr. Furman has aggressively cut costs. Last month, Greenbrier laid off 150 workers at a local factory. It plans to lay off 150 more soon, spreading the wave of forced austerity.
 ''I'm not really spending anything because I don't know what's going to happen,'' said Alrenzo Ferguson, who lost his job at the local Greenbrier plant last month.
 Columbia Sportswear, a family-run business based in Portland that employs about 1,100 local people, seems immune to the credit crisis: It has zero long-term debt and $253 million in cash. But the company is losing sales as its customers sink into trouble. Columbia typically does not get paid for many months after it begins producing its orders, making it loath to sell to credit-risky companies. 
 ''We've got customers we won't sell to because their credit is now no good,'' said the company's president and chief executive, Timothy P. Boyle. ''We've become more conservative.''
 Columbia laid off more than 50 people in the area last year, contributing to a rollback of local spending power. Daria Colner took a voluntary layoff from a high-level marketing position at Columbia last May, gaining a severance package through the end of the year. She figured she would quickly find another job, but she remains without work. 
 Ms. Colner's husband works at Oracle, the software giant. Together, they once enjoyed an annual household income exceeding $250,000, making it easy to pay the $3,000 monthly mortgage on their Arts and Crafts house with mahogany beams and stone fireplaces. They grew accustomed to far-flung vacations -- to New York, Alaska, Hawaii and Europe.
 They plan no vacation this year. When Ms. Colner's BMW recently came due for its 90,000-mile service check, she deferred the work. When their front awning rotted away, they decided not to replace it, merely painting over the gap. 
 ''It's not like people have any confidence that we're on the cusp of turning around,'' Ms. Colner said.
 That gnawing sense of not knowing the future is increasingly coloring the present.
 ''People are wondering, 'Well, should I spend money on my house right now?' '' said Debbie Kitchin, co-owner of InterWorks, a Portland-based general contractor. Her business has fallen by nearly half over the last year, prompting her to trim her work force to 7 from 11. She has put off the purchase of a new, $15,000 computer system.
 With jobs, credit and confidence all tenuous, the problem is reverberating back to the initial source of trouble: real estate. Even in older, historic neighborhoods, sales are stalled.
 ''We're off in terms of number of sales about 40 percent,'' said Shannon Spence, principal broker at Remax Equity Group in Portland. ''Job fears are keeping people from buying.''
 Community Financial Corporation, a Portland-area mortgage lender owned by Banner Bank of Walla Walla, Wash., recently began offering 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages for less than 4 percent on new houses for which it extended a construction loan, in a bid to overcome anxiety with easy money.
 ''The people that want the money don't deserve it, and the people that deserve it don't want it,'' said John B. Satterberg, president of Community Financial Corporation. ''Everybody's sitting on the fence.''
 The cheap loans have generated sales, he said. Yet one recent refinance application could not be closed, because the bank could not verify the value of the house: With no sales of similar properties in the area, there was nothing to compare.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Powell's Books' Michael Powell and daughter Emily Powell.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
John B. Satterberg, of Community Financial Corporation, a Portland-area lender, offers 30-year fixed rates of less than 4 percent.
 The Port of Portland, once jammed with shipping containers, shows the reduced demand for items made in Asia.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: POWELL'S BOOKS INC (58%); UMPQUA HOLDINGS CORP (50%)

TICKER: UMPQ (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (90%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1111 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Life in Florida

BYLINE: By ALCEE L. HASTINGS

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Luxe Meets the Lake in 'Real' Florida'' (March 20): Your article on Lake Okeechobee and the Glades community, much of which resides in my Congressional district, successfully highlighted the many attractions of visiting and living in this region. But your emphasis on luxury misses the many hardships faced by these communities. With the Glades cities strapped for cash and unemployment extremely high, tens of thousands of Okeechobee residents struggle to survive each and every day. Instead of helicopters to transport them to and from the coast, most residents have to rely on a decrepit public transportation system in desperate need of adequate funding. 
ALCEE L. HASTINGS Washington
 The writer is a Democratic congressman from Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); WRITERS (73%); HELICOPTERS (52%)

PERSON: ALCEE L HASTINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1112 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Obama Makes History in Live Internet Video Chat

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House said more than 64,000 people watched President Obama answer questions on Thursday in the first live Internet video chat by an American president. But in declaring itself ''Open for Questions,'' on the economy, the White House learned it must be careful what it wishes for.
 More than 100,000 questions were submitted, with the idea that Mr. Obama would answer those that were most popular. But after 3.6 million votes were cast, one of the top questions turned out to be a query on whether legalizing marijuana might stimulate the economy by allowing the government to regulate and tax the drug. 
 ''I don't know what this says about the online audience,'' Mr. Obama said, drawing a laugh from an audience gathered in the East Room, which included teachers, nurses and small-business people. ''The answer is no, I don't think that is a good strategy to grow the economy.''
 The marijuana question later took up a good chunk of the daily White House press briefing, where Robert Gibbs, the press secretary, suggested that advocates for legalizing marijuana had mounted a drive to rack up votes for the question. 
 Those advocates included Norml, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, which urged supporters to ''let the president know that millions of American voters believe that the time has come to tax and regulate marijuana.''
 But however the marijuana query rose to the top of the White House list, it provided one of the livelier moments in the mostly staid 70-minute event.
 Mr. Obama did make a sliver of news, disclosing that he intended to announce in the next couple of days what kind of help his administration would give the auto industry. A senior White House official said no decision had yet been made; Mr. Gibbs hinted that the announcement would most likely occur on Monday.
 ''We will provide them some help,'' Mr. Obama said, as he has in the past, while also talking tough, as he has done previously, by insisting that the auto makers would have to make ''drastic changes'' to restructure the way they do business.
 ''If they're not willing to make the changes and the restructurings that are necessary,'' Mr. Obama said, he will be unwilling to ''have taxpayer money chase after bad money.''
 Thursday's session, which had been advertised on the White House Web site since Tuesday, is the latest example of efforts by the Obama team to replicate its creative use of the Internet in the election campaign.
 Mr. Obama has been trying to make the case for his economic agenda in a variety of forums, from Jay Leno's late-night television show to the CBS program ''60 Minutes'' to a prime-time news conference on Tuesday. The Internet chat, streamed live on the White House Web site, was a chance for Mr. Obama to bypass the news media entirely.
 ''This is an experiment,'' the president said in a video promoting the event, ''but it's also an exciting opportunity for me to look at a computer and get a snapshot of what Americans across the country care about. 
 ''So, America, what do you want to know about the economy? Just go to whitehouse.gov and ask.''
 Mr. Obama, of course, was not looking at a computer himself. Jared Bernstein, an economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., moderated the event, reading some of the most popular written questions and cuing video questions. 
 Macon Phillips, the White House director of new media, said in an interview afterward that he was pleased with ''the experiment,'' which he said was part of Mr. Obama's mission to open the government to greater citizen involvement.
 ''Anytime you ask if people will engage and 100,000 people show up, it's a big deal,'' Mr. Phillips said.
 Yet at times, the forum had a canned feel, perhaps because most Americans tend to be more polite in their questions than news reporters, perhaps because they lacked any opportunity to follow up. 
 The first question, on education, prompted Mr. Obama to promise higher pay and more support for teachers, without specifics. The second, on what benefits his stimulus plan offered to struggling homeowners, prompted a recitation of the president's recently announced housing plan. The third was a video question, from ''Harriet in Georgia,'' who asked the president what he was doing to bring back jobs that had been outsourced.
 ''Thank you so much for all your hard work,'' Harriet told the president. ''God bless you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama took questions from the Internet on Thursday and from guests assembled in the East Room of the White House.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERNET VIDEO (91%); CANNABIS (91%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (70%); DRUG POLICY (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR THE REFORM OF MARIJUANA LAWS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JAY LENO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1113 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM DAMASCUS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: With Isolation Over, Syria Is Happy to Talk

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria 

 BODY:
Only a year ago, this country's government was being vilified as a dangerous pariah. The United States and its Arab allies mounted a vigorous campaign to isolate Syria, which they accused of sowing chaos and violence throughout the region through its support for militant groups like Hezbollah and Hamas.
 Today, Syria seems to be coming in from the cold. A flurry of diplomatic openings with the West and Arab neighbors has raised hopes of a chastened and newly flexible Syrian leadership that could help stabilize the region. But Syria has its own priorities, and a series of upheavals here -- including Israel's recent war in Gaza -- make it difficult to say where this new dialogue will lead. 
 It is not just a matter of the Obama administration's new policy of engagement. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France led the way with a visit here last September. King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who was said to be furious at the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, welcomed him warmly in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, this month. Photographs of the two men smiling and shaking hands have been on the front pages of all the major Arab newspapers, along with frequent headlines about the ''Arab reconciliation.''
 At the root of these changes is Syria's alliance with Iran. Saudi Arabia and the other major Sunni Arab nations once hoped to push Syria away from Iran through isolation, and now -- like President Obama -- they appear to be trying sweeter tactics. For the Syrians, the turnabout is proof that their ties with Iran are in fact useful, and accord them an indispensable role as a regional broker. Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries ''have great stakes in maintaining good relations between Syria and Iran, because at difficult times they will find Syria helping them,'' said Faisal Mekdad, Syria's vice minister of foreign affairs, during an interview here.
 Syrian and American officials are moving slowly, and have been careful to tamp down any expectations of sudden or significant change. The Arab reconciliation is partly dictated by the Arab League summit meeting scheduled to start Monday in Qatar, where the Saudis and others want to create an impression of unity and avoid embarrassments. Still, one thing seems clear: Israel's recent war on Hamas in Gaza generated a tremendous popular anger that has shifted the ground of Arab politics. Even more than Israel's 2006 war against Hezbollah, it put Saudi Arabia and its allies on the defensive and strengthened Syria, which hosts the Hamas leadership. 
 Mr. Mekdad even hinted that Syria might have hopes of turning the tables and driving a wedge between the Arabs and the United States on the question of Iran's nuclear capabilities. 
 ''I think the West is more concerned about the Iranian nuclear file than the Arabs,'' Mr. Mekdad said. ''I think our brothers in Saudi Arabia understand that the threat is not Iran, it is the Israeli nuclear capability. This policy of double standards is making all Arabs angry.'' 
 Those sentiments are not likely to be welcomed any more warmly in the Saudi capital than they are in Washington. But for the moment, the Syrian leadership is not feeling any real pressure to detach itself from Iran. 
 In fact, a number of Syrian analysts have sounded a triumphant note in recent weeks, suggesting that after emerging intact from the deep freeze of the Bush years, Syria has more power to dictate the terms of its new relationship with Washington. At the same time, some figures in the Syrian leadership are said to be uneasy about the new outreach from the Obama administration, which may prove to be less advantageous than it seems. 
 ''There are some here who miss the Bush administration, because at least with them you knew where you stood,'' said one Syrian analyst who is close to the leadership, but spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to come under scrutiny for exposing differences of opinion. ''With Obama, the American demands have not really changed, but there is an impression of a new era and an expectation of new results from us.'' 
 Nevertheless, there may be real opportunities for diplomatic progress, in part because some of the issues that divided Syria and the United States in recent years appear to have subsided. Last year's Doha accord resolved the political crisis, at least for now, in Lebanon, where the United States long accused Syria of playing a destabilizing role. Syria and Saudi Arabia are also said to have reached an agreement not to interfere in the Lebanese parliamentary elections in June, and Syria and Lebanon have established formal diplomatic ties.
 In Iraq, Syria's goals are now similar to those of the United States, analysts say. Despite its history of enabling jihadists to fight American troops in Iraq, Syria is now contemplating an imminent American withdrawal and is keenly aware that it might itself become a jihadist target, especially if it concludes any sort of peace deal with Israel. 
 ''Syria increasingly sees an interest in Iraqi stability,'' said Peter Harling, a senior Damascus-based analyst with the International Crisis Group. ''It has borne the brunt of the Iraqi conflict's spillover effect. It covets potentially huge economic benefits, posing as an outlet for Iraqi oil-products and a supplier for Iraq's emerging markets. Beyond that, a key objective for Syria has been to keep Iraq in the Arab rather than the Iranian fold.'' 
 The United States, with its military presence in Iraq and elsewhere, might be a useful partner in this respect. Asked what he expected from the new Syrian-American dialogue, Mr. Mekdad, the vice minister, replied, ''Very good cooperation'' on counterterrorism issues. 
 The top priority for the Syrians is a peace deal that would return to them the Golan Heights, occupied by Israel since 1967. Recently, Mr. Assad reaffirmed his desire to see the United States sponsor direct peace talks between Israel and Syria, which held indirect talks via Turkey over several months last year. That is a tall order, and any resulting peace deal would require Syria to cut off its support for Hamas and Hezbollah, among other things. Starting such talks may be more difficult after the ascent of Benjamin Netanyahu as Israel's prime minister.
 But the Syrians do not seem to be in any hurry. For the moment, they are happy enough with their changed circumstances. 
 ''The Bush administration has left,'' Mr. Mekdad said with a diplomatic smile, ''and we are still here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, right, hosted the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, this month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FAHAD SHADEED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (58%); HAMAS (58%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (89%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1114 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Hurt by Economy, Europeans Vent Their Anger

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Tempers are flaring across Europe as the economic pain deepens and more people lose their jobs. 
 Just ask Fred Goodwin, the former chief executive of the ailing Royal Bank of Scotland, whose house and car were vandalized early Wednesday. Or Luc Rousselet, the manager of a 3M factory in France, who was barricaded in an office for a second day by workers demanding better severance packages for 110 employees who are being laid off. 
 While such instances are scattered so far, the angry mood threatens to overshadow the Group of 20 summit meeting next week in London, where world leaders hope to find approaches to the financial crisis. 
 Several protests are planned in London's financial district, and the police are warning financial institutions to bolster security, cancel unnecessary meetings and keep employees inside. Bankers are being advised to wear ''casual clothing'' so they do not attract attention. 
 ''A recession has all sorts of knock-on effects,'' said Christopher Husbands, a professor of sociology at the London School of Economics. ''Crimes go up, relationships break down and there are instances of civil disturbance.'' 
 A nationwide strike in France last week, which drew at least 1.2 million people, was peaceful. But the government remains worried about an outbreak of violence similar to that last month in Guadeloupe, a French overseas territory, and in Greece in December. 
 The sense of frustration among those who lost their jobs or savings or a large part of their pension funds is fueled by reports of executives continuing to reap large rewards, as demonstrated by the outrage in the United States over bonuses paid at the American International Group. Europeans have long pointed out that pay packages of top executives in the United States are simply out of whack with the rest of the world, but their hopes of avoiding a public outcry were doused by the latest reports of inflamed local passions. 
 In Scotland, vandals smashed at least three windows on the ground floor of Mr. Goodwin's house in an affluent suburb of Edinburgh and damaged a black Mercedes S600 parked in the driveway. Mr. Goodwin was not in the house at the time and no one was hurt, but the incident alarmed Britain's business community. 
 A spokesman for Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who is in the United States, said ''there could be no excuse for people breaking the law.'' 
 Mr. Goodwin attracted criticism for keeping his pension, worth $:703,000 a year, or $1.03 million, despite a string of ill-timed acquisitions on his watch that led to the bank's being brought under government control. He rejected calls to surrender the payment, and the government is considering legal options. 
 It was the first such attack on a property owned by a banking executive since the financial crisis started, but some neighbors told local newspapers they were surprised it did not happen earlier. 
 The author of an e-mail message sent anonymously to a local newspaper on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the damage and said: ''We are angry that rich people, like him, are paying themselves a huge amount of money and living in luxury while ordinary people are made unemployed, destitute and homeless.'' 
 Though Mr. Goodwin resigned in October, the bank continues to pay $:290 a month for security at his house. Because of the bank's losses, Mr. Goodwin, once hailed as a skilled deal maker who turned a small bank into a global financial services operation, became the target of public scorn and a symbol of the decline of Britain's banks.
 ''People are looking for someone to blame as they feel the crisis on a day-to-day basis and experience feelings of injustice and anger as they ask themselves, 'What have I done to contribute to this?' '' said Sheri Jacobson, a psychotherapist who is clinical director of Harley Therapy in London. ''For those who are the target of the scorn it's extremely difficult, because for a long time they were the champions and they worked hard, and they also look at the situation, saying, 'My intentions were good.' '' 
 Some executives have already decided to forgo their bonuses, but companies continue to hand out hefty payoffs for executives of failed companies, setting off public outcries. 
 In contrast to politicians in the United States, those in Europe have stopped short of proposing taxes to claw back large executive bonuses, but even the leader of the employers' federation in France denounced the severance package proposed for the chief executive of Valeo, an auto parts maker. 
 In a speech this week, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France called on everyone to return to their ''values.'' He criticized both the irresponsible business sector as well as those who chose ''intimidation'' and ''threaten the security of property and people.'' 
 He got another whiff of the public mood Wednesday, when employees from a French plant owned by the German tire maker Continental marched through Paris and burned tires near Elysee Palace to protest the planned closing of a factory in the Oise region with 1,120 employees. 
 Striking workers at a French plant of 3M went even further, taking their boss hostage Tuesday. Such actions are rare but not unheard of in France; earlier this month, a similar situation at a Sony factory ended peacefully after one night. 
 Striking workers at a French plant of the U.S. company 3M went further, taking their boss hostage. Such actions are rare but not unheard of in France; a similar situation ended peacefully after one night earlier this month at a Sony factory in France.
 A few dozen workers at the 3M plant in Pithiviers took turns standing guard outside the factory's offices, The Associated Press reported. The workers did not threaten any violence and the atmosphere stayed calm.
 ''A framework of an agreement allowing for the end of the current crisis on the 3M site in Pithiviers was signed today,'' a union representative said .
 Rousselet left his office early Thursday morning to boos from the workers, The Associated Press said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); VANDALISM (89%); STRIKES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (92%); RBS (LSE) (92%); RBS (AMS) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

PERSON: FRED GOODWIN (89%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (78%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); GREECE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1115 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: New Afghan Strategies For the U.S. and Its Foes

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and THOM SHANKER; David E. Sanger and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama plans to further bolster American forces in Afghanistan and for the first time set benchmarks for progress in fighting Al Qaeda and the Taliban there and in Pakistan, officials said Thursday.
 In imposing conditions on the Afghans and Pakistanis, Mr. Obama is replicating a strategy used in Iraq two years ago both to justify a deeper American commitment and prod governments in the region to take more responsibility for quelling the insurgency and building lasting political institutions.
''The era of the blank check is over,'' Mr. Obama told Congressional leaders at the White House, according to an account of the meeting provided on the condition of anonymity because it was a private session. 
 The new strategy, which Mr. Obama will formally announce Friday, will send 4,000 more troops to train Afghan security forces on top of the 17,000 extra combat troops that he already ordered to Afghanistan shortly after taking office, administration and Congressional officials said. But for now, Mr. Obama has decided not to send additional combat forces, they said, although military commanders at one point had requested a total of 30,000 more American troops.
 Although the administration is still developing the specific benchmarks for Afghanistan and Pakistan, officials said they would be the most explicit demands ever presented to the governments in Kabul and Islamabad. In effect, Mr. Obama would be insisting that two fractured countries plagued by ancient tribal rivalries and modern geopolitical hostility find ways to work together and transform their societies.
 American officials have repeatedly said that Afghanistan has to make more progress in fighting corruption, curbing the drug trade and sharing power with the regions, while they have insisted that Pakistan do more to cut ties between parts of its government and the Taliban. Mr. Obama telephoned President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan on Thursday to share the main elements of the strategic review.
 Setting benchmarks for Pakistan could be particularly difficult. For years, the United States has simply paid bills submitted by the Pakistani government for counterterrorism operations, even during truces when its military was not involved in counterterrorism. Pakistan has resisted linking its aid to specific performance criteria and officials acknowledged that developing those criteria could be problematic.
 The key elements of Mr. Obama's plan, with its more robust combat force, its emphasis on training, and its far-reaching goals, foreshadow an ambitious but risky and costly attempt to unify and stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan. Mr. Obama is unveiling his approach at a time when the conflict is worsening, the lives of the people are not visibly improving, and the intervention by American-led foreign powers is increasingly resented.
 The goals that Mr. Obama has settled on may be elusive and, according to some critics, even naive. Among other things, officials said he planned to recast the Afghan war as a regional issue involving not only Pakistan but also India, Russia, China, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and the Central Asian states. 
 His plan envisions persuading Pakistan to stop focusing military resources on its longstanding enemy, India, so it can concentrate more on battling insurgents in its lawless tribal regions. That goal may be especially hard to achieve given more than a half century of enmity -- including a nuclear arms race -- between Pakistan and India.
 All told, the 21,000 additional American troops that Mr. Obama will have authorized almost precisely matches the original number of additional troops that President George W. Bush sent to Iraq two years ago, bringing the overall American deployment in Afghanistan to about 60,000. But Mr. Obama avoids calling it a ''surge'' and resisted sending the full reinforcements initially sought by commanders.
 Instead, Mr. Obama chose to re-evaluate troop levels at a series of specific moments over the next year, officials said. Approaching the issue in increments may be easier to explain to members of Mr. Obama's own party who fear he is getting the country as entangled in Afghanistan as Mr. Bush did in Iraq.
 The officials said Mr. Obama planned to frame the American commitment as a counterterrorism mission aimed at denying havens for Al Qaeda, with three main goals -- training Afghan security forces, supporting the weak central government in Kabul and securing the population. While the new strategy will call for expanding Afghan security forces more rapidly, it will not explicitly endorse the request from American commanders to increase the national police and army to 400,000.
 At the same time, Mr. Obama warned Congressional leaders that he would need more than the $50 billion in his budget plan for military operations and development efforts. Asked by lawmakers about the prospect of reconciliation with moderate members of the Taliban, officials said Mr. Obama replied that he wanted to sift out hard-core radicals from those who were fighting simply to earn money.
 Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, emerged from a briefing with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to declare that in his judgment the administration's review ''was right on track.'' He said the new strategy would send a significant number of additional trainers to work with the Afghan National Army and police, part of an overall strategy to ''transfer responsibilities to the Afghans, both militarily and in terms of economic development.''
 Mr. Levin, who was part of a bipartisan group that pressed Mr. Bush to set benchmarks for Iraq two years ago, embraced the idea of doing the same again for Afghanistan. ''There is a determination to set some benchmarks for Afghanistan, and that will be incredibly important,'' Mr. Levin said. ''We haven't had them in Afghanistan.''
 Republicans emerging from briefings at the White House and on Capitol Hill withheld comment. Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said in a statement that he ''had a constructive meeting at the White House'' and that he would ''reserve public comment until the president makes his formal announcement.''
 Dennis C. Blair, the administration's director of national intelligence, said the United States still lacked intelligence about the power structures inside the country and other basic information necessary for a counterinsurgency campaign. ''We know a heck of a lot more about Iraq on a granular level than we know about Afghanistan,'' he said.
 Speaking with reporters, Mr. Blair estimated that up to three quarters of the Taliban's rank and file in Afghanistan could be peeled away from the Taliban's leadership, most of whom are hiding in sanctuaries across the border in Pakistan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Mahodragi, Afghanistan, members of the United States Army spoke with members of the Afghan National Police this month. The United States wants to bolster the Afghan police force.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CORRUPTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (59%); HAMAD KARZAI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (96%); IRAQ (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1116 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: The Market Mystique

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
On Monday, Lawrence Summers, the head of the National Economic Council, responded to criticisms of the Obama administration's plan to subsidize private purchases of toxic assets. ''I don't know of any economist,'' he declared, ''who doesn't believe that better functioning capital markets in which assets can be traded are a good idea.''
 Leave aside for a moment the question of whether a market in which buyers have to be bribed to participate can really be described as ''better functioning.'' Even so, Mr. Summers needs to get out more. Quite a few economists have reconsidered their favorable opinion of capital markets and asset trading in the light of the current crisis. 
 But it has become increasingly clear over the past few days that top officials in the Obama administration are still in the grip of the market mystique. They still believe in the magic of the financial marketplace and in the prowess of the wizards who perform that magic. 
 The market mystique didn't always rule financial policy. America emerged from the Great Depression with a tightly regulated banking system, which made finance a staid, even boring business. Banks attracted depositors by providing convenient branch locations and maybe a free toaster or two; they used the money thus attracted to make loans, and that was that.
 And the financial system wasn't just boring. It was also, by today's standards, small. Even during the ''go-go years,'' the bull market of the 1960s, finance and insurance together accounted for less than 4 percent of G.D.P. The relative unimportance of finance was reflected in the list of stocks making up the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which until 1982 contained not a single financial company.
 It all sounds primitive by today's standards. Yet that boring, primitive financial system serviced an economy that doubled living standards over the course of a generation.
 After 1980, of course, a very different financial system emerged. In the deregulation-minded Reagan era, old-fashioned banking was increasingly replaced by wheeling and dealing on a grand scale. The new system was much bigger than the old regime: On the eve of the current crisis, finance and insurance accounted for 8 percent of G.D.P., more than twice their share in the 1960s. By early last year, the Dow contained five financial companies -- giants like A.I.G., Citigroup and Bank of America.
 And finance became anything but boring. It attracted many of our sharpest minds and made a select few immensely rich.
 Underlying the glamorous new world of finance was the process of securitization. Loans no longer stayed with the lender. Instead, they were sold on to others, who sliced, diced and pureed individual debts to synthesize new assets. Subprime mortgages, credit card debts, car loans -- all went into the financial system's juicer. Out the other end, supposedly, came sweet-tasting AAA investments. And financial wizards were lavishly rewarded for overseeing the process.
 But the wizards were frauds, whether they knew it or not, and their magic turned out to be no more than a collection of cheap stage tricks. Above all, the key promise of securitization -- that it would make the financial system more robust by spreading risk more widely -- turned out to be a lie. Banks used securitization to increase their risk, not reduce it, and in the process they made the economy more, not less, vulnerable to financial disruption. 
 Sooner or later, things were bound to go wrong, and eventually they did. Bear Stearns failed; Lehman failed; but most of all, securitization failed.
 Which brings us back to the Obama administration's approach to the financial crisis.
 Much discussion of the toxic-asset plan has focused on the details and the arithmetic, and rightly so. Beyond that, however, what's striking is the vision expressed both in the content of the financial plan and in statements by administration officials. In essence, the administration seems to believe that once investors calm down, securitization -- and the business of finance -- can resume where it left off a year or two ago. 
 To be fair, officials are calling for more regulation. Indeed, on Thursday Tim Geithner, the Treasury secretary, laid out plans for enhanced regulation that would have been considered radical not long ago.
 But the underlying vision remains that of a financial system more or less the same as it was two years ago, albeit somewhat tamed by new rules.
 As you can guess, I don't share that vision. I don't think this is just a financial panic; I believe that it represents the failure of a whole model of banking, of an overgrown financial sector that did more harm than good. I don't think the Obama administration can bring securitization back to life, and I don't believe it should try. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (87%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1117 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words

 BODY:
TWEETS, BUT BY WHOM? Twitter is used to market politicians, businesses and celebrities like 50 Cent, left. But the need for constant updates has created a cottage industry that fans may not be aware of: Twitter ghostwriters. 
 HARD TIMES Portland, Ore., a metropolitan area that has grown vigorously during economic booms, is feeling the effects of the national retrenchment. Local businesses are deferring expansions, home prices are falling and workers are being laid off. [A1.] 
 IRKING SHAREHOLDERS As share prices have fallen, executives at dozens of public companies have taken steps to lower the prices that their employees would have to pay to convert options into stock. The moves are efforts to retain workers but have upset shareholder advocates. [B1.] 
 A.I.G. IN SPOTLIGHT Lawmakers and the New York attorney general began inquiries into payments, financed with taxpayer money, that the American International Group made to several dozen big banks. [B1.] 
 The two top executives at the French unit of A.I.G.'s financial products business resigned. [B4.] 
 GEITHNER'S REFORM EFFORT Calls by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to expand the government's powers to regulate financial institutions were publicly met with support but are likely to provoke intense resistance from the industry. [B1.] 
 IN CHINA, CARS VS. SUBWAYS The Chinese government is investing heavily in immense mass-transit systems, even as Chinese recently surpassed Americans in total vehicle sales. [B1.] 
 ANOTHER CARMAKER'S LOAN BID Tesla Motors unveiled its all-electric sedan, the Model S, but the company is still waiting for approval for $700 million in government loans before it can begin offering the car. [B6.] 
 WARNING ON OIL An oil consulting firm said it expected supplies to drop within five years. Christophe de Margerie, left, the chief executive of Total, has said that producers' project cancellations will make it difficult to bolster supplies. [B1.] 
 PAY CUT AT THE TIMES The New York Times Company said it planned a temporary pay cut of 5 percent for most employees this year, which it expected would help it avoid laying off newsroom staff at its flagship paper. [B6.] 
 SCREEN TIME The average American adult spends eight hours a day in front of screens, and computer use has replaced radio as the second most common media activity. Advertising. [B6.] 
 REDUCTION IN G.D.P. The economy shrank at a 6.3 percent annual pace, a larger reduction than anticipated, partly because business inventories were smaller than had been expected. [B8.] 
 MARKETS RISE The major indexes closed higher on strong news in the technology sector, putting the markets on track to close higher for a third consecutive week. [B8.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); TESLA MOTORS INC (54%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); TSLA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1118 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: In Budget Talks, Higher Tax Brackets and No Increase in School Spending

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson and the Legislature have tentatively agreed to freeze state education aid and trim back a proposed tax increase on health insurers, while the Assembly and Senate have both begun serious discussions about the size and structure of an income tax increase for the wealthy, virtually ensuring its inclusion in the final budget deal.
 They are also close to agreement on overhauling New York's scandal-plagued Empire Zone program, officials and lawmakers involved in the discussions said on Thursday. 
 Mr. Paterson's proposal to allow grocery stores to sell wine appeared headed for defeat on Thursday night, as did a major expansion of the state's recycling laws, which earlier this week appeared to have won the approval of key lawmakers.
 But with this year's budget negotiations shrouded in unprecedented secrecy and Democrats in the narrowly divided Senate still undecided on major spending items, it remained impossible to say with any certainty which deals would remain on the table when the budget deadline arrives at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and his staff have been particularly close-mouthed; when Mr. Silver does speak, he sometimes contradicts what other Assembly members have said. Emerging from a meeting Thursday evening with the governor and Malcolm A. Smith, the Senate majority leader, Mr. Silver would not discuss any detail of agreement, saying only that he was optimistic the budget would be finished soon.
 But Mr. Silver and Mr. Smith said they were negotiating a bailout of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority -- which on Wednesday voted for substantial fare increases and service cuts -- in tandem with budget talks. 
 ''Nobody likes the actions of the M.T.A. board, in terms of outrageous fare increases and outrageous service cuts,'' Mr. Silver said. ''So we're going to have to take some less outrageous actions to raise some revenue to avoid those actions.''
 Mr. Smith said they were ''looking at every option'' to avoid the steep fare increases, some of which will otherwise go into effect on May 1. Though some senators appeared to support using money from an income tax increase to bail out the authority, Mr. Silver said he ''would be surprised if that's the conclusion.''
 Officials involved in the negotiations said that with the economy continuing to deteriorate, the state faced a budget deficit of more than $10 billion in the next fiscal year, even after factoring in $6.5 billion in federal stimulus aid. The gap has become so large, the officials said, that the final budget is now certain to include both severe spending cuts and some form of income tax increase. The only question remaining is how much of each.
 The rough agreement on education aid would use the federal stimulus to restore some of Mr. Paterson's cuts but essentially postpone $1.5 billion in new aid due to New York's schools under a 2006 court decision, leaving spending unchanged from last year. Advocates for increased education outlays said they would continue to pressure lawmakers.
 ''President Obama and the Congress did their part, prioritized education, and gave New York sufficient education funds to restore cuts to last year's budget levels,'' said Geri D. Palast, executive director of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, an education coalition whose lawsuit led to the 2006 ruling. ''New York State must now commit its fair share of state resources to make a down payment on the third year of C.F.E. funding.''
 Assembly Democrats have proposed adding three higher brackets to the income tax for individuals making $300,000, $500,000 and $1 million. The new taxes would raise roughly $4 billion, according to Assembly projections. The current top rate of 6.85 percent applies to those who make $40,000 a year or more.
 Senate Democrats discussed a range of proposals on Thursday night, including one that would raise taxes for those making $500,000 and above, but at a higher rate than the Assembly plan. Others are pushing for a plan that would raise as much as $6 billion, with some dedicated to the transportation authority, though that would meet resistance from Mr. Paterson and Mr. Silver.
 A tentative agreement on expanding the recycling law, which would require a nickel deposit on water bottles, appears to have been scuttled in the Senate. And the proposal to allow grocers to sell wine -- which Mr. Paterson hoped would raise $100 million in new revenue -- has met sharp resistance in the Assembly, where Mr. Silver appears opposed to a compromise that would allow liquor stores, in exchange, to sell items like cheese and crackers. 
 ''I don't understand why people are so opposed to it,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, a Manhattan Democrat. ''But I think it is gaining momentum in the Assembly and is something that could still possibly go forward.''
 The three leaders appeared to have agreed to drop $120 million in tax increases on insurers, a victory for the health care lobby. But fewer details were available on the Empire Zone program, which has provided billions in tax breaks to New York businesses but has become so riddled with abuse that some lawmakers have pushed to shut it down. Administration officials said that they expected significant changes to the program but that specifics were still being negotiated.
 The only pronounced pushback on an income tax increase came from Tom Golisano, the Rochester billionaire and political gadfly, who visited the Capitol on Thursday express his displeasure. 
 With the state's top elected officials largely absent from public view, Mr. Golisano said their budget would continue to make New York less competitive than other states, while failing to contain spending growth. ''We can't spend that much more money than we take in and expect the federal government and the credit suppliers to bail us out year after year,'' Mr. Golisano said.
 His political action committee, Responsible New York, worked to tip the balance of power in the Senate toward the Democrats in last year's elections, but he warned that that could change.
 ''Responsible New York probably had a leaning towards the Democratic Party this year,'' Mr. Golisano said. ''Maybe next time that leaning won't be there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1119 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Senate Moves to Expand National Service Programs

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate overwhelmingly approved a bill Thursday to broadly expand national community service programs, increasing the number of positions to 250,000 from 75,000 and creating new cadres of volunteers focused on education, clean energy, health care and veterans. 
 The vote was 78 to 20 on the measure, renamed the Senator Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, in honor of the Massachusetts Democrat who was a main architect of the legislation. 
 After the vote was tallied, Mr. Kennedy received a standing ovation on the Senate floor. His son, Representative Patrick J. Kennedy, Democrat of Rhode Island, was in the chamber for the occasion. And the elder Mr. Kennedy got a huge round of congratulations, including a hug from Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, who was also a main author of the service bill. 
 ''The whole Kennedy family has been a service family,'' Mr. Hatch said. 
 The Senate measure now goes to the House, which approved a different version of the legislation last week. Officials said they expected the House to adopt the Senate bill next week and send it to President Obama, a proponent of community service programs, who is expected to sign it into law. 
 Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who is the main sponsor of the bill in the House, issued a statement praising the Senate measure. Aides said it would clear the House easily. 
 The service legislation is also a top priority of Michelle Obama, who has said that promoting volunteerism will be a major focus of her time in the White House. 
 The legislation, which had broad bipartisan support, would expand the ranks of AmeriCorps, which was created by President Bill Clinton in 1993 to bring federal volunteer programs under a single umbrella. 
 In addition to adding positions to AmeriCorps, the bill would create four new service corps. The expansion would cost about $6 billion over five years. The bill would raise the education stipend paid to volunteers to $5,350, the same amount as a Pell Grant college scholarship. 
 The more than tripling of the number of federal service positions, at a time when the recession is expected to vastly increase the demand for volunteer work among college graduates, amounts to the boldest expansion of service opportunities since President John F. Kennedy called for a national service corps in 1963. 
 The bill also seeks to encourage volunteer work among retirees and would offer them a $1,000 educational award that they could transfer to a child or grandchild. 
 ''All across America, people want to volunteer if they have the opportunity to do so,'' said Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, who helped shepherd the bill to final passage. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (79%); ORRIN HATCH (73%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%); MICHELLE OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009



1120 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2009

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: The Envelope, Please: 'Indecisive,' With Conflicting Goals

BYLINE: BETH ZAK-COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Beth Zak-Cohen, a student from Newark, N.J., weighs such issues as whether to go urban or rural, big school or small, pizza over mom's cooking. 

 BODY:
I'm indecisive. Honestly, that's the crux of my college admissions experience. When applying, I couldn't answer those questions you're always asked - big or small, urban or rural, public or private - I really didn't know what I wanted. In fact, as I went through my college search I found myself attracted to schools that fit many contradicting adjectives. I did however, decide two important things. I wanted a school close enough to a city, so that I could rush there if I wanted a good slice of pizza or the perfect outfit for a party. And I wanted to be close enough to home that I could go there if I was sick, or just wanted to visit (I am an only child, if that explains anything to those of you aching to get away). So, I decided on a list of schools. They fit a variety of categories - ivies, liberal arts schools, and state schools - but also fit the location criteria, had academic programs that interested me, and simply felt good. Yes, that magic "feeling" that tells you where you're meant to be. 
I got that at a lot of schools I applied to, which means I possibly never got it at all. Ultimately, though, I do think I could be happy at every school I applied to. 
So, how will I finally decide? Honestly, it's sure to be a difficult and emotionally trying process. I mean, it's deciding my future - how I'll spend the next four years and, possibly, how I'll spend the rest of my life. So, it's an extremely scary prospect. I've narrowed it down to three Fs- financial aid, feel, and focus. All right, so I made up the last one just to get another F. Really though, in today's economy, financial aid is one of my most important components. However, I need to balance that with the feel of the school, whether it's someplace I really want to go, and what kind of opportunities (based on academics, alumni, and prestige) it will allow me in life. It's sure to be an interesting ride ready to come along? 
"The Envelope, Please'' is a series of posts by high school seniors chronicling their experiences during the end-game of this year's college admissions process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Financial Aid (Education); For Parents; For Seniors; Paying for College; The Envelope, Please

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012



1121 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2449 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
international
BAHRAIN'S STREETS ERUPT
With Sectarian Violence
The long-festering tensions between Bahrain's Sunni elite and the Shiite majority exploded into the streets this year after the police arrested 23 opposition organizers. Coastal villages are being marred by regular confrontations between demonstrators and police. Above, Bahraini protesters hold up a picture of a boy who was arrested by the police. PAGE A4
DOZENS KILLED AS DAM BURSTS
Heavy rains caused a large dam in a crowded urban area in Indonesia to burst, sending a deadly wall of water and mud crashing through hundreds of houses and killing at least 60 people, the police said. PAGE A4 
The Saturday Profile Leader Crumbles Old Barrier
Louise Richardson is the first woman to head the University of St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university and the third-oldest in the English-speaking world. Her appointment has shaken up the university, as well as the nearby Royal and Ancient club, the storied golf institution that admits only men and offered honorary memberships to her two immediate predecessors. PAGE A5
POSSIBLE DEAL TO FREE BRITONS
The kidnappers of five British men held hostage for nearly two years say they have struck a deal that would trade the men for several detainees now in American military detention, according to a report on an Arabic news Web site. PAGE A6
BOMBER KILLS DOZENS IN PAKISTAN
A suicide bomber brought the roof of a crowded mosque crashing down on worshipers in northwest Pakistan as a cleric intoned the holy prayers. The explosion killed scores of people in the bloodiest attack this year. PAGE A6
A WIDE, ODD FIELD IN MAYORAL BID
Mayoral races are among the few remaining opportunities for independent candidates to run for office in Russia, and the contest for the mayoralty of the city of Sochi -- which will host the 2014 Winter Olympics -- includes a former Bolshoi ballerina, a pornography star, the head of Russia's largest Masonic lodge, an Anglophile newspaper mogul and an opposition leader who could undermine support for the government in the city. PAGE A7
JAPAN WARY OF KOREAN ROCKET TEST
Japan will deploy missile interceptors and dispatch two warships to the waters between it and the Korean Peninsula, said the Japanese defense minister. North Korea has said it intends to put a satellite into orbit as early as next week and warned that fragments could fall into waters off Japan. Japan, South Korea and the United States suspect the launching is a cover for a test of an intercontinental ballistic missile. PAGE A7
National
STATES BRACE FOR MORE FLOODING
As Red River Keeps Rising
Flooding from the Red River surpassed its highest level in history, and forecasters now believe it will rise ever higher in Minnesota and North Dakota. The level is higher than most had believed possible, and the 10-degree weather tested the stamina of the thousands of volunteers aiding in relief efforts. PAGE A8
A GALILEO ORIGINAL IN PHILADELPHIA
Only two of the dozens of telescopes that Galileo built survive, and neither has ever been out of Florence since Galileo's time -- until one of them was delivered this week to the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia for a visit. PAGE A8
REACHING OUT TO THE BLACK PRESS
The arrival of the Obama administration has given newfound clout to the nation's black magazines, newspapers and television and radio stations. PAGE A8
A FUNERAL FOR SLAIN OFFICERS
Thousands of mourners and police officers from around the country traveled to Oakland, Calif., to pay their respects at a wrenching public funeral for four city officers who were slain in a weekend shootout with a parolee. The funeral was covered live by most local television stations. PAGE A9
3 RESEARCHERS NAMED IN SUBPOENA
Three prominent Harvard researchers were named in a subpoena that is part of a Congressional investigation into conflicts of interest in medicine. PAGE A9
BUDGET GOALS YIELD TO REALITY
After new long-term economic projections by the Congressional Budget Office showed $2.3 trillion added to the deficit over 10 years, Democratic lawmakers had to discard many of the president's high-minded budgetary goals as they sought to keep his main priorities intact. PAGE A10
DOCTOR ACQUITTED IN ABORTION CASE
Jurors in Wichita, Kan., acquitted a controversial doctor on charges that he performed 19 illegal late-term abortions in 2003. PAGE A11
A DIFFERENT KIND OF COURTROOM
Things were different in the Luzerne County juvenile courtroom, and everyone knew it. Proceedings on average took less than two minutes. Detention center workers were told how many juveniles to expect before they had their hearing. Lawyers told families not to bother hiring them. They would not be allowed to speak anyway. The reason: two judges who ran a scheme that involved sending thousands of juveniles to two private detention centers in exchange for $2.6 million in kickbacks. PAGE A1
A PRISON SYNAGOGUE IS RESTORED
The Alfred W. Fleisher Memorial Synagogue, a room where Jewish prisoners at Philadelphia's Eastern State Penitentiary worshipped in the mid-20th century, has been restored as a vital part of the 142-year history of the prison. Above, Eastern State Penitentiary Program Director Sean Kelley holds a photograph of the synagogue prior to restoration. PAGE A13
Obituaries
JACK DREYFUS, 95
A New York financier who ran one of the nation's most successful mutual funds, he left Wall Street on a quixotic crusade to promote an epilepsy drug as a miracle cure-all. PAGE A14
New York
HOPING HARD TIMES ARE GOOD FOR OPENING A DIAMOND STORE
Dalyah Duek-Flaks acknowledges the opening of her Madison Avenue diamond store is not especially well timed. But her tale of unfortunate timing is not unusual; even in the depths of the recession, new stores and restaurants open almost weekly PAGE A17
About New York A15
Business
GOLDMAN SPENT TENS OF MILLIONS TO BAIL OUT 2 EXECUTIVES
Last fall, the financial giant Goldman Sachs spent tens of millions of dollars to bail out two senior executives, according to the bank's preliminary proxy statement. The executives, both large shareholders, were caught short of cash, and the bank was worried that a big share sale would alarm investors PAGE B1
Talking Business
Geithner's Fix
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's plan to deal with toxic assets could, in the best case, make our banks a little healthier and a little better able to extend credit, Joe Nocera writes. PAGE B1
Your Money
The Art of Helping Out With Cash
In last week's Your Money column, the question of whether to give -- or take -- money from those closest to them was put to the readers. The responses poured in. Ron Lieber of The Times, using the readers' responses, tackled some of the toughest parts of this money quandary:
Ask first, or just act?
Act alone or with others?
Give anonymously?
Cash or direct payment?
PAGE B1
REGULATORS POINT TO LONDON OFFICE
In one of the first signs that Bernard L. Madoff might not have carried out his sweeping Ponzi scheme alone, British regulators said that Mr. Madoff's London office played a large part in the scam. PAGE B2
Executive Gets 30 Years in Fraud Case B2
BANK OF AMERICA IN PONZI LAWSUIT
A class action lawsuit filed in federal court claims that Bank of America -- through a branch office -- helped allow Nicholas Cosmo, who is accused of swindling, carry out what is alleged to be a $380 million Ponzi scheme. PAGE B2
CONSUMER SPENDING UP AGAIN
Consumer spending edged up for the second month in a row in February, according to a government report. The report was taken as good news, although many economists say that continuing job losses are likely to weaken such spending in the future. PAGE B3
MGM Avoids Bankruptcy at Project B3
BIOTECH FIRM TO LIQUIDATE
In the past, biotechnology companies that had one drug fail typically moved to a new drug. But with capital markets tight, investors are trying to pull the plug on unsuccessful companies. Avigen, whose most promising drug failed in a clinical trial, finally gave in and is preparing to liquidate itself and return its remaining cash to shareholders. PAGE B3
Host of 'Fast Money,' Leaves CNBC B3
Obama Summons Bank Executives B4
Arts
A LEGAL TUG OF WAR
Over Motherwell's Works
Two dueling lawsuits paint vastly different pictures of Joan Banach, a longtime personal curator to the abstract expressionist Robert Motherwell. In one, she argues that she was fired from the artist's foundation over disputes about the authenticity of his work. But the foundation says that she stole some of his work and sold it for her own benefit. PAGE C1
THE LOWDOWN ON HIGH FINANCE
Charles Isherwood writes that there's a lot going on in the spirited update of the musical ''Finian's Rainbow'' -- a racist Southern senator who turns black, a lovelorn leprechaun, and a plotline about a character's suspicion of banks, which lends it an air of topicality. PAGE C1
JUDGING A BOOK BY ITS TITLE
The winner of this year's Bookseller/Diagram Prize for Oddest Book Title of the Year? That would be ''The 2009-2014 World Outlook for 60-Milligram Containers of Fromage Frais.'' It beat out some stiff competition, like ''Curbside Consultation of the Colon'' and ''Strip and Knit With Style.'' PAGE C1
HARD TIMES HIT STATE ARTS PROGRAM
One unexpected casualty of the real estate crash is the New York State Summer School of the Arts, a 40-year-old, state-subsidized program that offers training in theater, dance, music and visual arts. The program has been financed in recent years by a fund that gets revenue from fees levied by county clerks' offices for the filing of title and mortgage records. PAGE C4
Music Review
A Hodgepodge Without Compromise
In a concert at Irving Plaza, Nate Chinen writes that the singer-songwriter P. J. Harvey swung between batty and angry while still giving ample stage time to her defiantly arty side. PAGE C5
Sports
KENYAN IS LONG-DISTANCE HOPE
For the Netherlands
Hilda Kibet, Kenyan by birth and Dutch by the twists and turns of adult life, is the reigning European cross-country champion and will be the Netherlands' only runner in the world championships, facing off against the Kenyans and Ethiopians, the sport's established superpowers. PAGE B9
A SHOWDOWN OF BIG EAST RIVALS
When No. 1 Pittsburgh and No. 3 Villanova meet in the East Regional final of the N.C.A.A. tournament, the game will feel very much like a Big East tournament final. The game will be played in Boston, a backdrop that has added resonance for the powerhouse conference, which lost its foothold in that important market after Boston College's 2003 defection to the Atlantic Coast Conference. PAGE B10
This Weekend
MAGAZINE
Freeman Dyson, the world-renowned scientist and public intellectual, has pondered topics as varied as nuclear weapons and the possibility that biotechnology can address overpopulation, climate change and too much garbage. But how did he wind up opposing those who care most about global warming? PAGE 32
Neil LaBute, the playwright and screenwriter, and the misanthropic, misogynistic guys he creates are coming to Broadway, and it won't be pretty. PAGE 28
BOOK REVIEW
In the polished and distinctive nine stories of his first book, ''Everything Ravaged, Everything Burned,'' the author Wells Tower has invented a world of rough men and strong women. Often the men are older, battered, no longer successful. And the women have had their patience sorely tried. PAGE 1 ARTS & LEISURE
The country has fallen on hard times, but cities have been living in the dark ages for a while now, both by neglect and policy, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. Many think the economic crisis may be a chance to rebuild urban infrastructures with the same capability as the Works Projects Administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1930s and 1940s, he says. PAGE 1
Arts
A LEGAL TUG OF WAR
Over Motherwell's Works
Two dueling lawsuits paint vastly different pictures of Joan Banach, a longtime personal curator to the Abstract Expressionist Robert Motherwell. In one, she argues that was fired from the artist's foundation over disputes about the authencity of his work. But the foundation says that she stole some of his work and sold it for her own benefit. PAGE C1
JUDGING A BOOK BY ITS TITLE
The winner of this year's Bookseller/Diagram Prize for Oddest Book Title of the Year? That would be ''The 2009-2014 World Outlook for 60-Milligram Containers of Fromage Frais.'' It beat out some stiff competition, like ''Curbside Consultation of the Colon'' and ''Strip and Knit With Style.'' PAGE C1
THE LOWDOWN ON HIGH FINANCE
Charles Isherwood writes that there's a lot going on in the spirited update of the musical ''Finian's Rainbow'' -- a racist Southern senator who turns black, a lovelorn leprechaun, and a plot line about a character's suspicion of banks which lend it an air of topicality. PAGE C1
Dance Review Eliot Feld's Mandance Project
Roslyn Sulcas writes that the new works in Eliot Feld's Mandance Project were full of good ideas that all ran themselves into the ground. PAGE C3
HARD TIMES HIT STATE ARTS PROGRAM
One unexpected casuality of the real estate crash is the New York State Summer School of the Arts, a 40-year-old, state-subsidized program that offers training in theater, dance, music and visual arts. The program has been financed in recent years from a fund whose revenue is generated by fees levied by county clerks' offices for the filing of title and mortgage records. PAGE C4
Music Review
Emotions Without Compromise
Nate Chinen writes that the singer-songwriter P. J. Harvey swung between batty and angry while still giving ample stage time to her defiantly arty side in a concert at Irving Plaza. PAGE C5
Editorial
THE REMEMBERED WAR
With his new comprehensive plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan, President Obama has asserted leadership over the war that matters most to America's security -- the one against Al Qaeda and the Taliban. PAGE 16
BORDER CONTROL
The Obama administration's sensible decision to send hundreds more agents and officers to patrol the border region with Mexico was encouraging for its realism and proportion. They add resources to curb the deadliest illegal flow -- of drugs, guns and cash -- and recognize a critical distinction between narco-gangs that mean us harm and economic migrants who don't. PAGE 16
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS
New York has always been a place where legislative leaders held their power very close. Committees don't really function, especially in the Senate. Truly, they could send up a bunch of ferrets wearing politician masks to sit in their seats and it would be absolutely the same. PAGE 17
PUN FOR THE AGES
In an Op-Ed article, Joseph Tartakovsky, a law student at Fordham, explains why our friends and acquaintances still think puns are funny, and why we still make them even when we know they're not. PAGE 17

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MAYORS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); WEATHER (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); MEN (72%); JUVENILE CRIME (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (65%); PORNOGRAPHY (65%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); MILITARY VESSELS (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); WINTER SPORTS (64%); BALLET (62%); OLYMPICS (62%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) BAHRAIN (95%); JAPAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



1122 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1389 words

PERSON: Louise Richardson 

HEADLINE: In Scotland, New Leadership Crumbles Old Barrier

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
ST. ANDREWS, Scotland
THIS quiet town on the North Sea is the home of golf and the storied Royal and Ancient club, which makes the rules for the sport but does not admit women as members. For the 255 years since the club's founding this was not a problem. It is now, however, since another of the town's renowned institutions, the University of St. Andrews, named Louise Richardson, an Irish-American, as its president; her two immediate predecessors had been made honorary members of the golf club.
A controversy has erupted, one noted by the speaker at Ms. Richardson's installation this week. The speaker, Baroness Shirley Williams, said that as a member of Parliament, she once had to enter a London club through the heating ducts in order to attend a parliamentary committee meeting being held there -- even though she was the chairwoman of the committee. For the moment, Ms. Richardson, whose installation was accompanied by great pomp -- the oath, prayer and benediction were in Latin -- wishes the issue would go away.
''I see it as a distraction,'' she said in an interview. ''I'm here to run a university.'' 
For 600 years, that venerable institution -- the third oldest university in the English-speaking world -- has been presided over not only by a man but a British man, and a Protestant (since the Reformation, of course). Ms. Richardson, who was born in Ireland, is a naturalized United States citizen and a Catholic.
But her sex is what has the town and university buzzing, and with her characteristic humor she noted in her address that a graduate of the university, John Knox, had written a book in 1558 called, ''First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women.'' She went on, ''I have heard from several sources that there was a lot of speculation in St. Andrews as to what was happening in Knox's grave at word of my appointment.''
Ms. Richardson's presence will shake up not only the crusty golfing establishment -- every golf club in St. Andrews is single sex, three male and two female. At the university, only 3 of the 18 heads of the schools are women. In the office of the principal, which is what they call the president, Ms. Richardson is the only woman; the five vice principals, the dean of graduate studies and the financial officer are all men.
Ms. Richardson said during a lengthy interview that she did not want to be ''pegged as only interested in women's issues,'' and she rejected affirmative action as the way to bring more women into top positions. But she left no doubt where she was headed, saying that the top of the university ought to reflect the demographics of the student body and society at large. Fifty-seven percent of St. Andrews's 7,250 undergraduate and graduate students are women, a university spokesman said.
''I don't believe that talent resides predominantly among males, or among the upper classes,'' Ms. Richardson said. On the latter point, St. Andrews has an ''elitist'' reputation, and she plans to reach out to students from economically and socially less privileged backgrounds.
On the Victorian campus, where Prince William studied and about 15 percent of the student body is American, Ms. Richardson's mission includes raising the university's international stature, broadening the student base and fund-raising.
She comes from a distinguished career at Harvard, where her academic focus was terrorism. It was a pursuit she came to naturally, having grown up in Ireland during the years of some of the worst sectarian violence in Northern Ireland. One of seven children, she was the first in her family to attend college. Though educated in a convent school, she boldly, and somewhat bravely, enrolled in the Protestant Trinity College in Dublin, widely considered one of the best in Europe, working in the library during the day and as a cocktail waitress at night.
She went on to earn a doctorate from Harvard and began her career there teaching international relations. Noticing all the books on terrorism in her office, her students asked her to teach a course. She proposed a seminar, which would be limited to 12 students. It was 1996, five years before 9/11 made the study of terrorism a cottage industry, but some 130 students signed up. She taught a lecture course.
''There is nothing like having to prepare 30 lectures that forces you to focus your thinking,'' she said.
In 2006, she collected her thoughts into a book, ''What Terrorists Want: Understanding the Enemy, Containing the Threat.'' Reviewing it in The New York Times, Martin Walker called it ''the essential primer on terrorism and how to tackle it.''
It almost didn't get published. Her editor wanted her to omit Chapter 6, ''What Changed and What Did Not After September 11, 2001.'' The world had not changed after 9/11, as President Bush proclaimed, she argued. What really changed after 9/11 was the American reaction, or overreaction, in her view, with the Patriot Act and the declaration of a ''war on terror.''
SHE told the editor that she would return the advance. She prevailed.
''She is quietly, but supremely, confident,'' said Andrew Mackenzie, director of research at the school of physics and astronomy.
When she was 14 years old, Ms. Richardson considered joining the Irish Republican Army, the guerrilla group that opposed British rule in Northern Ireland. But the sense one gets from her now is that she seeks to lead not so much a revolution at St. Andrews as an accelerated evolution.
On the job since Jan. 1, she has already been a big hit with students. ''I'm really impressed with her,'' said Jessica Siegel, a fourth year student from New Mexico and the president of the Union Debating Society. ''She's so accessible. She's a person, rather than just this figure.''
Last month, Ms. Richardson met with the heads of the student societies, an annual and usually contentious affair. She was advised by her deputies to bring along aides to help parry the verbal assaults. She insisted on going alone. ''I went in and had a fabulous two hours with these students,'' she said. ''They were engaged, they were committed.''
ONE of Ms. Richardson's most formidable challenges will be fund-raising. Tuition is free for students from Scotland or European Union countries outside Britain, while American students pay roughly $16,000 at today's exchange rates. But there is no tradition of philanthropic support or alumni giving at universities in Britain.
Ms. Richardson said she tells wealthy potential donors, ''If you want a legacy, do you want more wealth, to speculate in derivatives, or to invest in education, in an institution that has been around for 600 years?''
Tradition is revered at St. Andrews, where students often stride around campus in scarlet gowns, worn on or off one or more shoulders depending on the year in school. ''They do ceremony very well at St. Andrews,'' Ms. Richardson said, and that was amply demonstrated at her installation, with men carrying centuries-old maces and bowing to the university chancellor.
She decided she wanted more substance, and after the formal swearing in, there were academic panels on the sciences, humanities and social sciences. She invited distinguished American scholars, including Stanley Hoffmann, the Harvard historian; Robert Keohane, professor of international affairs at Princeton; and Gish Jen, author and writing professor at Brandeis.
The seminars, held in Parliament Hall -- named because the Scottish Parliament met there during the 17th-century plague -- were standing-room only, suggesting that Ms. Richardson was not alone in wanting more than ceremony.
Correction: April 1, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Saturday Profile article about Louise Richardson, the first woman president of the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, the third-oldest university in the English-speaking world, misstated the publication year of a book she cited in her installation ceremony last week as an example of how women have advanced. The book, by John Knox, a St. Andrews graduate, titled ''First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women,'' was published in 1558, not 1858.
The article also misstated the name of the Protestant college Ms. Richardson attended in Ireland. It is Trinity College Dublin, not ''Trinity University in Dublin.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); WOMEN (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NORTH SEA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) SCOTLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



1123 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON NYTIMES.COM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: ON THE STREET
Bill Cunningham discusses the different fashion facets in Paris. There's a lot of color and expression that can be uplifting in a tough economy, and he encourages listeners to dig in their closets and put something colorful on and brighten their spirits. 
nytimes.com/fashion
AUDIO: THE MOOD IN DETROIT
Interviews with residents as the city awaits the March 31 deadline for General Motors and Chrysler to prove their viability.
nytimes.com/business
AUDIO: RENTING A FRESH START
After a rough breakup, Monica Wagner found an apartment on Riverside Drive. ''As soon as I saw this beautiful studio with polished floors, a wood-burning fireplace and a view of the river, I thought, I will be O.K.,'' she said.
nytimes.com/realestate
SLIDESHOW: DANCE, ANALYZED
Images from Synchronous Objects, a project on analyzing the movements of dance, with the choreographer William Forsythe and Ohio State University.
nytimes.com/dance
AUDIO: BUSINESS PODCAST
Jeff Sommer and Edmund L. Andrews on the Treasury secretary's latest proposals, Tim O'Brien and Brad Stone on Facebook's explosive growth, Floyd Norris on the recent market rally, and Mark Hulbert on long-term investing.
nytimes.com/business
Opinion
Dick Cavett
Conjuring Slydini
A childhood obsession with magic and, years later, a chance encounter with one of the masters. Includes a video of an entire show from 1977 with the master magician.
nytimes.com/cavett

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM / THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); CHOREOGRAPHY (68%); PODCASTING (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



1124 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 781 words

PERSON: Irving R. Levine 

HEADLINE: Irving R. Levine, 86; Made Economy Simple

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Irving R. Levine, the longtime NBC News correspondent whose easily accessible explanations of monetary policy, fluctuations in the Dow Jones industrial average and the intricacies of the global market helped make the economy a staple of television news, died in Washington on Friday. He was 86 and lived in Washington and Boca Raton, Fla.
The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said his son Daniel Rome Levine. 
In January 1971, Mr. Levine, a veteran foreign correspondent for NBC who had been posted in Moscow, London and Rome, was brought back to Washington and assigned to cover the economy, then a subject rarely considered by the networks. It was the first time NBC had assigned a full-time reporter to economics news, and Mr. Levine soon became a familiar presence in American living rooms.
That August, with inflation on the rise, President Richard M. Nixon imposed wage and price controls and took the United States off the gold standard, and Mr. Levine was there to instruct the nation, in unadorned, understandable language, about what it all meant. As matters of money, trade and the budget grew in importance from then on, Mr. Levine, with his trademark bow tie, formal diction and decidedly unglamorous appearance, became the broadcast version of a favorite eccentric professor. Before he retired in 1995, he covered more than 20 international economic summit meetings with five American presidents.
Irving Raskin Levine was born in Pawtucket, R.I., on Aug. 26, 1922. His parents were immigrants from Ukraine who owned a small general store.
He was fixated on becoming a foreign correspondent from a young age, and after graduating from Brown University, working as an obituary writer for The Providence Journal and serving in the United States Army Signal Corps during and after World War II, he went to Columbia Journalism School.
In 1948 he went to work for the International News Service, which sent him first to Vienna, and in 1950 assigned him to cover the outbreak of war in Korea. There, after providing freelance reports for NBC News, he joined the network.
In 1955, Mr. Levine accompanied a group of American farming experts to the Soviet Union, a highly unusual event in the cold war, and he subsequently became the first American television reporter accredited there. He spent four years in Moscow; his 1959 book, ''Main Street, U.S.S.R.,'' depicting daily life in the post-Stalin Soviet Union, was named one of the 100 best books of the year by The New York Times.
When he left Moscow, he went to Europe, spending most of the next dozen years as NBC's bureau chief in Rome and covering, among other events, the erection of the Berlin Wall and the Vatican II Ecumenical Council.
It was while he was passing through the New York studio of NBC News on a trip home from Moscow that he met Nancy Cartmell Jones, who was working as an assistant to Dave Garroway, the host of the ''Today'' show. They married in 1957. In addition to his wife and their son Daniel, of Wilmette, Ill., he is survived by another son, Jeffrey C. B. Levine, of Chicago; a daughter, Jennifer J. Levine of Chevy Chase, Md.; a sister, Eva Schaffer of Walnut Creek, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
After Mr. Levine retired from NBC, he became dean of the College of International Communications at Lynn University in Boca Raton.
By then he had become such a familiar fixture on NBC that he could be publicly teased by presidents, late-night talk-show hosts and even fictional characters. The title character of the comedy series ''Murphy Brown,'' a newswoman played by Candice Bergen, was once appalled to discover that a rival, played by Linda Ellerbee, had started a rumor the she, Murphy, ''had the hots for Irving R. Levine.''
Mr. Levine appeared on the show the following week.
Correction: April 3, 2009, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Saturday about Irving R. Levine, the longtime NBC television news correspondent, misstated the timing of the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. It was in 1968, when Mr. Levine was a correspondent in the Rome bureau of NBC; it was not in the 1950s, when he was stationed in Moscow.
Correction: April 4, 2009, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary last Saturday about Irving R. Levine, the longtime NBC television news correspondent, attributed an erroneous distinction to his network. Although NBC made Mr. Levine its first full-time reporter covering economic news, in 1971, ABC News appointed Louis Rukeyser its economics editor in 1968. Mr. Levine's work was not the first time a network had focused full-time on economics coverage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Irving R. Levine (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1995) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ARMIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (76%); KOREAN WAR (76%); COLD WAR (76%); WRITERS (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ACCREDITATION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); RELIGION (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (56%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%)

RICHARD NIXON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ROME, ITALY (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ITALY (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



1125 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Rebuild The Middle Class

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
''We need to build an economy that is fueled by a stronger middle class,'' said Paul K. Sonn, a legal director of the National Employment Law Project. To help, his group joined with other community organizations and advocates to produce a blueprint for economic growth. 
Its proposed policies cover housing, manufacturing, consumer services, small business and workers' rights. Many of them have been enacted by other cities across the country. Here are some highlights from the proposals, along with information about how other local governments have handled them.
A CITYWIDE MINIMUM WAGE New York City has the same minimum wage as the rest of the state, $7.15 an hour, despite its higher cost of living. Other high-cost cities, including San Francisco, have enacted higher minimum wages in recent years, following Baltimore's successful adoption of a living wage ordinance in 1995.
GUARANTEED PAID SICK DAYS In 2007, San Francisco became the first city in the nation to require paid sick days for all people working within the city's boundaries, even temporary and part-time workers, with Washington following suit in 2008. About 65 percent of working poor and 45 percent of nearly poor workers do not have a single paid sick day in New York City, according to the blueprint. As a result, Mr. Sonn said, workers feel compelled to show up or risk losing a day's pay. ''It's bad for public health and spreading disease,'' he said.
MORE GROCERY STORES Supermarkets have been declining across the city, with the shortage most severe in minority and poor neighborhoods. In Pennsylvania, a program called the Fresh Food Financing Initiative has helped finance 32 new supermarkets with 2,600 jobs in lower-income neighborhoods. In January, Gov. David A. Paterson announced a similar plan
LABORERS' CENTERS An estimated 10,000 day laborers wait to be picked up each day in the five boroughs in what is a largely unregulated and shadow economy. Los Angeles, Denver and Phoenix have given public funds to day labor centers, which they say provide services and teach workers their rights. Nassau and Suffolk Counties have started taxpayer-supported centers, but efforts in other local areas have drawn fierce opposition.
JENNIFER 8. LEE
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
22,000 Tons of Steel: The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey awarded a $338.8 million contract on Thursday to DCM Erectors, which will furnish, fabricate and erect the 22,000 tons of steel needed to construct the World Trade Center Transportation Hub from bedrock to street level. Dollar for dollar, it is the largest steel contract yet to be awarded at the site.
VIDEO: Cramer vs. Cuomo: Video from CNBC in 2007 seems newly relevant. Jim Cramer, the stock-investment personality, attacked Andrew M. Cuomo two years ago over his warnings of the problems afflicting mortgages, saying, ''Cuomo says let's make it harder to get a mortgage, let's make it harder to lend.'' Alas for Mr. Cramer, Mr. Cuomo proved reasonably prescient.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rendering of the hub.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANTIAGO CALATRAVA/PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LIVING WAGE (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ORDINANCES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); SICK LEAVE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (74%); DAVID PATERSON (54%); JIM CRAMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



1126 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Young Budget Chief Sees Beyond the Ledger Lines

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At 6 in the morning, Peter R. Orszag is racing: across wet pavement for a 35-minute run, into a shower and a suit, and through a living room that looks rather like an office, the walls painted presidential gold and hung with pictures of federal monuments.
As he heads to his job as White House budget director, he already seems to pulse with energy, but he asks his driver to stop at Starbucks for enormous doses of iced and hot tea. His epic caffeine intake concerned him until he solved the problem with typical Orszagian efficiency: he underwent genetic testing, confirmed that he could safely metabolize large amounts and happily moved on to the next worry.
Mr. Orszag is the youngest member of President Obama's team holding cabinet rank, a 40-year-old with what colleagues call a graybeard's knowledge of how the government spends money. But he has little interest in merely keeping fiscal house. 
His animating passions are far grander -- health care, energy policy and Social Security overhaul, for starters. Everything about the way he has interpreted his new job speaks of ambition: the policy heavyweights he has hired for the Office of Management and Budget, his efforts to persuade cabinet secretaries to let him help shape their plans, a public profile as high as that of any budget director since David A. Stockman's polarizing tenure under Ronald Reagan a quarter-century ago.
''When people are saying this is not how O.M.B. has done things before, I've been shrugging my shoulders and saying this is not your father's O.M.B.,'' he said in a recent interview in his office, where a direct phone line to the president was just installed. (He has not yet dared press the little blue button.)
But though colleagues call Mr. Orszag something of a presidential favorite, his relative power among the gigantic personalities on the Obama economic team is still uncertain. Although the budget touches everything, he has no particular subject-area portfolio, and on the topics that most draw his interest, the administration is already well stocked, maybe even overstocked, with expertise and opinions.
A former director of the Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Orszag is what passes in the Democratic Party for a deficit hawk. But with the economy requiring a jolt from deficit spending, and with his boss determined to press ahead with expensive domestic initiatives while he has the weight to do so, Mr. Orszag embodies the administration's awkward fiscal policy positioning: big spending now, with a promise to scrub the budget of waste and a bet that economic recovery and changes to health care will gradually reduce the deficit.
Mr. Orszag's main job for now is to protect his budget's journey through Congress, drawing on his years of experience on Capitol Hill, his warm relationships there and his ability to reach deep into detail to make a bargain.
For a dedicated policy wonk, he also spends a lot of time on television. After Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's tax troubles and public speaking blunders, Mr. Orszag was one of several officials dispatched to the airwaves, where he presented the administration's arguments with a combination of numerical analysis and boyish earnestness.
''He's made nerdy sexy,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff.
Mr. Orszag, who grew up in Lexington, Mass., has always worked himself punishingly hard -- a legacy, he says, from a math-professor father who glanced at test scores of 98 and asked about the 2 other points. ''It was always, 'When I was your age, I was a tenured professor,' '' he said.
When he won a Marshall scholarship, his father congratulated him by admitting that the award was ''not trivial.'' Later he discovered that his father had once been turned down for the prize, which finances graduate study in Britain. (Mr. Orszag earned master's and doctoral degrees at the London School of Economics.)
In classic political fashion, Mr. Orszag trained for Washington rivalry through family rivalry, not just with his father but also with his economist brothers. Peter, Michael and Jonathan Orszag have worked and written papers together and still compare electronic gadgets and their Princeton grade-point averages.
In Washington, Mr. Orszag's prowess with numbers has always meant opportunity. As an economist in the Clinton administration, he won the attention of Robert E. Rubin, then the Treasury secretary, by catching him in a math mistake.
Mr. Orszag still plays the geek, passing out propeller hats and jokingly referring to himself as ''supernerd.'' But nerds are socially inept, and he is anything but. He has worked in Washington on and off since he was 17 -- he interned under Pete Rouse, now a senior adviser to the president -- and he has intensely political instincts and aspirations.
Friends say his dinner parties are notable for the meticulously chosen wines and the senators who attend. (Mr. Orszag, a divorced father of two, is so cozy with the Capitol Hill crowd that Senator Ron Wyden and his wife, Nancy Bass Wyden, found him a girlfriend.)
And he has a history of transforming green-eyeshade jobs into broader assignments. When he led the Congressional Budget Office, starting in 2007, he became one of the most highly visible directors in its history. He published a well-regarded blog and testified constantly. The C.B.O. puts the official price tag on legislation, traditionally after it is written, but Mr. Orszag persuaded members of Congress and their staffs to consult with him during draft stages.
Both sides benefited: lawmakers were more likely to receive favorable rulings on cost, and Mr. Orszag became more policy partner than accountant.
Now he has stocked the White House's budget office with advisers who aspire to shape policy across the administration. They include Cass R. Sunstein, a legal scholar close to Mr. Obama; Jeffrey Liebman, a campaign adviser; Dr. Ezekiel J. Emanuel, a heath care expert who is Rahm Emanuel's brother; and Kenneth Baer, a Clinton administration speechwriter.
Mr. Orszag had a large role in the economic stimulus bill, taking charge of sorting the workable spending ideas from the impractical ones and helping negotiate its final passage on Capitol Hill.
Through that process, several colleagues say, he established his own direct line to the president, without the interference of Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary who, as director of the National Economic Council, controls much of the flow of economic information and policy ideas to Mr. Obama.
Asked about his relationship with Mr. Summers, Mr. Orszag answered politely but stiffened visibly. The two have managed to work together congenially, several administration officials said, and Mr. Summers, known for his sometimes scathing assessment of people, takes Mr. Orszag seriously.
But Mr. Orszag seems to chafe a bit at the situation: Mr. Summers holds a job in which Mr. Orszag was initially interested, and as early as the transition period, Mr. Summers tried to control the budget process as well, by seeking to run meetings related to it.
Mr. Orszag won that battle, and he and others say he is enthused about his role. But as the administration tackles one policy challenge after another, the real test of his power may be the extent to which he can hold his own with Mr. Summers.
So far, his main project has been the budget, drafted in meetings that began before the inauguration. For weeks after Mr. Obama took office, Mr. Orszag sat directly across the table from him in the Roosevelt Room. He began each session with a series of PowerPoint slides, defined the president's options and constantly jotted down requests on notecards.
For someone with two BlackBerrys -- work and personal -- clipped to the small of his back, Mr. Orszag seems governed by little cards: the ones in his breast pocket for notes, another that lists his meetings, a tiny hand-lettered one that materializes to summon him to the Oval Office.
Soon he will focus more closely on health care, his central policy obsession. In recent years, many say, he has helped popularize the idea that reducing health care costs is essential to the country's economic future and the sustainability of the federal budget.
To address the problem, he wants to do no less than change the way medicine is practiced, eliminating unnecessary tests and unproven treatments in favor of what he calls a higher-value approach that he says will actually improve health. But no one quite knows how much money such measures would save, and Republicans already accuse him of trying to limit care.
His own health care conversion occurred when a doctor told him several years ago that he was at risk for cardiovascular problems. Mr. Orszag changed his diet. Each day he eats the same egg whites for breakfast and salad topped with chicken for dinner, all from the White House mess.
He also began training for marathons, sometimes startling colleagues by appearing in their offices at day's end in head-to-toe spandex.
Now he keeps two books on his desk: the teachings of Epictetus, a Greek Stoic philosopher who espoused dispassion and self-discipline, and ''The Strenuous Life,'' by Theodore Roosevelt, an ode to pushing oneself as hard as possible.
But even Mr. Orszag admits worry about whether he can accomplish anything near what he hopes.
''If you look at the tenure of O.M.B. director in the past, it doesn't seem to be very long,'' he said on his early-morning ride to the White House, a 5 o'clock shadow already creeping over his face.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (A1)
After a 35-minute run followed by a quick shower, Peter R. Orszag, the 40-year-old White House budget director, is off on his early-morning commute to work.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Orszag has had a history of transforming green-eyeshade jobs into something broader.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011



1127 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Harsh Economy Takes Toll on New York State Summer Arts Program

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
The real estate crash has an unexpected casualty. The New York State Summer School of the Arts, a 40-year-old, state-subsidized program that offers training in theater, dance, music and visual arts, may have to cut its budget by as much as half this year because of the state's budget crisis and, in particular, the drop-off in real estate transactions.
 The summer school program has been financed in recent years from the state's Cultural Education Account, which also finances the New York State Museum, the State Library, the Archives and the Office of Public Broadcasting. The revenue for the Cultural Education Account is generated by fees levied by county clerks' offices for the filing of title and mortgage records. 
 A week ago, staff members of the summer school program, part of the state's Education Department, were told in a conference call with staff members from the Division of the Budget that they should plan to cut their $1.59 million spending plan for this summer by 50 percent, said Jeremy Johannesen, the executive director of the nonprofit New York State Alliance for Arts Education, which works closely with the program. (Staff members declined to speak on the record, saying they were not authorized by the Education Department to be interviewed.)
 Those cuts would require the summer program to cancel four of its eight components this summer, even though students have already been admitted, Mr. Johannesen said in an interview.
 The budget process has been particularly opaque this year, and hard numbers were not forthcoming from Gov. David A. Paterson's administration. A spokesman for the Division of the Budget, Matt Anderson, said that no final decisions had been made about financing for the summer program. But he said that revenue from the real estate recording fees fell by 25 percent this fiscal year, requiring the administration to ''develop options'' for the programs financed by the Cultural Education Account.
 On Wednesday three Democratic senators, Suzi Oppenheimer of Westchester, Eric T. Schneiderman of Manhattan and Jose M. Serrano of the Bronx, introduced a bill that would raise the fees to replenish the account. A similar bill was introduced in the Assembly by Steven Engelbright, Democrat of Setauket.
 But Ms. Oppenheimer said in an interview that, even if the bills passed, the administration might not agree to restore the money for the program. ''We're pushing them very hard,'' she said, adding, ''It seems to be difficult to get anything back to where it was.''
 The summer program admits roughly 525 high-school-age students each summer, based on auditions or portfolios. Tuition for the monthlong programs is modest compared with similar, privately run programs --ranging from $1,100 to $1,500, including room and board -- and is supplemented by aid for most of the students, Mr. Johannesen said.
 All of the programs are taught by professionals. Ballet is taught by dancers from New York City Ballet, and symphonic music by members of the Philadelphia Orchestra during those companies' summer residencies in Saratoga, N.Y. The theater program is taught by former members of the Circle Repertory Theater Company. The playwright Lanford Wilson, who has spent several days discussing plays with the theater students every summer since 1986, said that the teachers were paid ''practically nothing'' but that the quality of the training was outstanding.
 The alumni include several prominent Hollywood figures, including Dan Futterman, Bennett Miller and Philip Seymour Hoffman, who met in the theater program in 1984 and collaborated 20 years later on the film ''Capote,'' which Mr. Futterman wrote, Mr. Miller directed and in which Mr. Hoffman played the title role.
 In an interview, Bradon McDonald, now a dancer with the Mark Morris Dance Group, credited the summer school with starting him on his career. He grew up in a rural county upstate and was a competitive tap dancer from ages 6 to 14. When he first auditioned for the program, he knew so little about modern dance that he assumed that the requirement that dancers audition in bare feet was meant as an equalizer, so that ''the kids who couldn't afford really cool shoes,'' he said, wouldn't be at a disadvantage.
 Mr. McDonald's teachers at the summer program, which he attended for three years, became important mentors, recommending that he apply to the Juilliard School, from which he received a bachelor's of fine arts in 1997.
 Without the program, he said, ''I really don't know what I would be doing now, but I wouldn't have the job that I have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bradon McDonald, left, of the Mark Morris Dance Group, and Philip Seymour Hoffman, above, in ''Capote,'' are among the alumni of the New York State Summer School of the Arts (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTILA DORY/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); MUSIC GENRES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); MUSIC (72%); LIBRARIES (70%); LEGISLATION (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1128 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: MGM Averts Bankruptcy at Project in Las Vegas

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
MGM Mirage, the casino operator, staved off a bankruptcy filing for its CityCenter development in Las Vegas by making a $200 million construction payment on Friday.
 Included in that payment is $100 million that MGM Mirage is covering for Dubai World, its partner in the sprawling resort and casino development. Dubai World has sued MGM Mirage, contending that it has mismanaged CityCenter's development and that its finances imperil the project's fortunes. 
 Under a previous agreement with their lenders, MGM Mirage and Dubai World agreed to make joint construction payments to avoid propelling CityCenter into bankruptcy.
 The payment buys only a little more time because another one is due to CityCenter's lenders in April. MGM Mirage must still make $800 million in payments before it can use $1.1 billion in loans earmarked for the development.
 ''MGM Mirage believes that CityCenter is of vital importance to Las Vegas and the state of Nevada,'' James Murren, MGM Mirage's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. ''We continue to review with our partners all possible options to keep CityCenter fully funded and on a path to completion.''
 CityCenter had hired the Dewey & LeBoeuf law firm to prepare a potential bankruptcy filing even as MGM Mirage, Dubai World and lenders continued negotiations.
 In a statement, Dubai World said: ''Dubai World welcomes MGM's move to fund the total amount due today. Dubai World regards it as a sign of good faith and of MGM's commitment to the CityCenter project.''
 Scheduled to open later this year, CityCenter was meant to be a showpiece for MGM Mirage, which had promoted it as the biggest privately financed construction project in United States history. The company spared little expense in building the 67-acre site, enlisting celebrity architects like Daniel Libeskind to design its flashy hotel-condominiums, casino and 500,000-square-foot shopping center.
 But MGM Mirage and other casino operators have been struck by the recession's erosion of consumer spending. Several casino companies, including Trump Entertainment and Tropicana Entertainment, have already filed for bankruptcy. Others, like MGM Mirage, Harrah's Entertainment and Las Vegas Sands, are negotiating with creditors over ways to avoid a similar fate.
 MGM Mirage, which is controlled by the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, reported a $1.15 billion fourth-quarter loss earlier this month. The casino operator, burdened with more than $13 billion in debt, has hired the investment bank Evercore Partners and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges as advisers.
 The company has already agreed to sell its Treasure Island casino for $775 million. MGM has said that it is considering a wide variety of alternatives, including sales of more assets, shares and bonds, to stay afloat.
 Shares in MGM Mirage fell 7.8 percent, to $2.85, on Friday after briefly rising as high as $3.66 after the news was announced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The CityCenter casino-hotel project on the Strip in Las Vegas is scheduled to open later this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); GAMING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LITIGATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RECESSION (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); RETAILERS (61%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (93%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (58%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (58%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (58%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (52%); TROPICANA CASINOS & RESORTS INC (52%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (51%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (93%); LVS (NYSE) (58%); CZR (NASDAQ) (58%); EVR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (93%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (58%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: JAMES J MURREN (59%); KIRK KERKORIAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1129 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Helping Out With Cash And Finesse

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
It was the idea of her friend's children riding around in the back seat of an uninsured vehicle that finally convinced Mishiko Flores that she had to do something to help.
 First, she asked her husband: Could they afford to give the family money? Then, she practiced her offer with her mother. In the end, Ms. Flores made a delicate approach and, after bursting into tears, her friend accepted the $3,000 gift.
 In last week's Your Money column, I asked readers to tell me how they were wrestling with the question of whether to give -- or take -- money from those closest to them. The responses poured in from people like Ms. Flores who have offered help and those who have been recipients of financial aid, or who wish they were. 
 Because so much attention has been on the shortcomings of government assistance, I had not realized how many people were grappling privately with how best to reach out. Still, the volume of replies shouldn't have been surprising, given that so many people have lost jobs, lost money in investments and watched the value of their houses drop in the past year or so. 
 And for all the people who are struggling to pay the bills, there are many in their inner circle who have been agonizing for months over how or whether to write them a check. 
 You can read some of the scores of inspiring (and dispiriting) reader comments on the Web version of last week's column. We've also sorted some of the most thoughtful e-mail replies by topic in an interactive viewer linked from the version of this column at nytimes.com/yourmoney.
 Meanwhile, I've tackled five of the toughest parts of this money quandary below.
 GRANT OR LOAN? Whether you give money outright to those closest to you or lend it, the dangers are similar. Putting money between you can fundamentally and permanently alter the nature of the bond.
 Loans are particularly problematic. Debt, especially when it is piled on top of existing loans, adds to uncertainty, especially if the recipients have no idea when they are going to be able to pay it back.
 Giving money to someone you know, meanwhile, requires a specific mind-set. Can you truly do it without any expectations or preconditions? And can you do it without resenting what the recipient chooses to do with it?
 ''The person who is unemployed wants to be sure there are no strings attached,'' said Fred Bracken, a New York City resident who recently lost his job with American Express. ''There's a difference between lending a hand and being coddled.''
 If there are conditions, make them simple rules that inspire everyone involved. Almost 50 years ago, Rich Wilbanks was moving from Oregon to California with his family so he could start a teaching job. His brother and his wife handed them $300 and told them it was in the nature of a loan but that they would need to repay it by helping someone else.
 He and his wife have paid it forward many times over the years since. ''You get to pay what you want to whom you want,'' said Mr. Wilbanks, who is now retired and living in Berkeley. ''You never get a statement about it. It's your obligation to deal with yourself, somehow down the road somewhere.'' 
 Ms. Flores, the Clifton, N.J., resident who helped her friend, added two other items to the script. First, Ms. Flores reminded her friend that she would certainly do the same thing for Ms. Flores's family if the need arose. And then, she told her friend that she never wanted to talk about it again. 
 One year later, the relationship is still intact. 
 ASK FIRST, OR JUST ACT? It is tempting to offer financial aid only when someone close to you asks. After all, you don't want to embarrass anyone. But it may be best to risk discomfort, or being turned down, in the event that the person you're worried about is simply too proud to make the request.
 Ms. Flores, who counsels New Jersey state prisoners for a living, said, ''A lot of the time, I'll deal with clients who get into trouble because they're afraid to ask for help.'' 
 Even when someone does not accept an offer, the act of asking can itself be helpful.
 ''Just the thought that there is help in the margins means you don't necessarily have to take it, and that has sustained me,'' said Naomi L. Maloney, a copywriter and brand consulting strategist in Oakland, Calif., whose friends have offered her loans. ''It makes me work a little bit harder and feel more confident in my self-worth as a worker and as an earner, to know that the help is there if I need it.''
 ACT ALONE OR WITH OTHERS? In late January, Steven Roy lost his job, which provided health insurance for his family. A few weeks later, his infant son Isaac, who is known as Ike, was found to have a life-threatening illness. Within hours, friends of the family from the AustinMama Web community in Texas had erected ikeasaurus.com to coordinate help for the family. A few hours later, there was $4,000 in a PayPal account with the Roys' name on it.
 Kari Anne Roy, Ike's mother, said it was easier to accept the money from a group than it might have been to say ''yes'' to many individuals. ''There is no one we could give the money back to,'' she said, given that the money in the PayPal account, now up to about $8,000, is a single sum. ''We couldn't give it back if we tried.''
 That said, accepting the money, which the family has barely begun to spend and still hopes not to, has not been easy. ''I don't want to be that family on the tip jar at the sandwich store,'' she said. ''I feel an overwhelming sense of responsibility. Is it O.K. to buy bottles with the money, or do I need to buy medicine instead?'' 
 GIVE ANONYMOUSLY? If you want to give money but handling it face to face is not palatable for whatever reason, anonymous grants are another option. If you are part of a religious congregation, its leader may be willing to help with the gift. 
 Sue Barnet of Wetumpka, Ala., arrived home one day in November to find a $200 check in the mail. The bookstore where she worked had closed, and someone from her church had given the money anonymously to her minister and asked that he forward it. 
 Ms. Barnet said she was so amazed that she had to sit down at her kitchen table.
 ''I couldn't believe that someone in our congregation thought enough of me and had enough faith in me that they decided to do something really practical to help,'' she said. ''I come from a family of extraordinarily independent women, very determined. Sometimes that's not such a good thing. I think I would have just been too embarrassed to accept a direct gift.''
 Thanks to a new part-time job at a public library, Ms. Barnet is beginning to recover financially. She said she planned to donate to her church's discretionary fund, which her minister could use to help others in need.
 Another way to hide your identity while giving is through the Giving Anonymously Web site, givinganon.org. The nonprofit group will send an anonymous check on your behalf and record thank-you messages from the recipient. 
 CASH OR DIRECT PAYMENT? As a general rule, plain money is the most flexible gift there is. There are no limits on its use, as there is with a gift card.
 If you can't spare money right now, giving frequent-flier miles to people who might not otherwise be able to afford a vacation or a trip to attend a funeral is a nice gesture. 
 Several people wrote in to suggest one final idea: giving to the children of adults facing financial distress. Paying the provider directly for a music lesson or a week of camp feels less like an act of charity and has the added benefit of allowing those who disapprove of the parents' spending or other choices to keep their children from doing without. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven and Kari Anne Roy, with their son Ike. AWeb community in Austin, Tex., set up a fund for Ike's medical care.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); HOME PRICES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); DISMISSALS (66%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1130 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Optimism As Spending Rises Again

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Consumer spending edged up for a second consecutive month in February, according to a government report on Friday. 
 While the inflation-adjusted figure was down slightly, the report was taken as good news, although economists caution that continuing job losses are likely to weaken consumer spending in the future.
 ''Since consumer spending makes up 70 percent of the economy, some of the dire forecasts for economic growth in the first quarter may not be true,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics, a research business. Still, he said, ''declining payrolls for the first two months of this quarter and initial jobless claims provide no evidence that the contraction in the economy is slowing.'' 
 Consumer spending rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 0.2 percent in February, in line with expectations. In inflation-adjusted numbers, spending was down 0.2 percent, in contrast to a 0.7 percent increase in January. Economists say that spending in the first quarter has benefited from government transfer payments and a comparison to the especially gruesome numbers at the end of 2008. 
 Americans' wages and salaries declined 0.2 percent last month, offsetting a 0.2 percent gain in January, the government said. Inflation-adjusted disposable income -- personal income less personal current taxes -- fell 0.4 percent. That followed a 1.3 percent increase in January, which had been buoyed by unexpectedly high increases in government transfer payments and cost-of-living raises for government workers.
 The price index for consumer expenditures rose the same amount as in January, 0.3 percent. The price index excluding food and energy -- an inflation measure the Federal Reserve monitors closely -- rose 0.2 percent in each of the last two months. It is up 1.8 percent over the last 12 months.
 Economists say that this price growth does not quell deflationary fears, however.
 ''Inflation acts with long and variable lags, and the inflation we're seeing now is largely a function of what went on in 2007 and early 2008'' with high energy prices, said Joseph Brusuelas, a director at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''Going forward we will see much lower inflation as the disinflation working its way through the system begins to appear in core measures.''
 Savings rates have also been relatively elevated in the last few months.
 In February, Americans saved 4.2 percent of their after-tax income, compared with 4.4 percent in January. Those figures show Americans to be much thriftier than they were in recent years, when personal savings rates hovered around zero and even dipped into negative territory as consumers took on more debt. 
 Historically, personal savings rates have spiked temporarily during recessions, and the rates of the last two months are nowhere near the 7 percent savings rate the nation has averaged since the 1950s. 
 Still, some economists say the blows to housing and the stock market are likely to sustain relatively higher saving levels even after the recession subsides.
 ''From 1980 to 2004, we took the savings rate from 10 to 0 not because we were all smoking crack, but because of the extraordinary rise in the value of assets,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG, a research and trading business, citing rallies in the bond, stock and housing markets. 
 ''People were meeting their net worth targets without having to channel current income into saving,'' he said. ''But now that they're 30 percent less rich than they thought they were, they're going to have to replace that lost wealth with additional saving.''
 According to another report released Friday by the University of Michigan and Reuters, an index of consumer sentiment rose slightly, to 57.3 in March, from 56.3 in February.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); INFLATION (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); STATISTICS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1131 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Stadium Was Mets' Priority

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In 2006, the year construction began at Citi Field, the Mets averaged 43,327 fans a game at Shea Stadium. The next season, the figure rose to 47,579, and last year, the finale at Shea, it spiked to 51,165, or above four million in total, second best in baseball. 
 But it is a magical level that the Mets will never reach at Citi, which seats 42,000. 
 The Mets' decision to downsize capacity from Shea's 57,333 was largely based on aesthetics -- to produce an intimate ballpark like some of those that were built in the early 20th century. That vision could hurt the Mets' revenue, although the team should not have too much trouble generating cash with higher-priced tickets and premium seats.
 ''We looked at virtually every new ballpark built over the past 15 years and we visited every one except for Safeco,'' said Dave Howard, the Mets' executive vice president for business operations. ''And based on our discussions, the clubs that built parks larger than 42,000 or 43,000 wish that they'd built them smaller.''
 But none were built in markets the size of New York, which, last season, supported two teams drawing more than four million. Shrinking size and ticket inventory as much as the Mets did seems excessive; Citi is smaller than 11 ballparks built since 1992. 
 And it is far smaller than the new Yankee Stadium, which will accommodate 52,325, and where the architectural intention was not intimacy, but to accentuate the spectacle of the original 1923 design. The new stadium fits 4,563 fewer fans than the old one.
 The Yankees can still draw over four million fans at their slightly smaller stadium, which has a capacity just below the team's 2008 attendance average of 53,069.
 Howard said the Mets did not run any calculations about the revenue Citi Field would generate if it were several thousand seats bigger. Anything larger than 42,000, he said, would change the geometry of the ballpark and move seats farther from the field. Wrigley Field and Fenway Park, grand survivors of early ballpark architecture, have fewer seats than Citi, ''and they don't seem to have hurt their teams' business.'' 
 Of course, the Cubs and Red Sox were not successors to notably larger stadiums.
 Howard said the Mets' finances make sense if Citi draws 3.2 million to 3.3 million, ''which will be better than what we averaged year in and year out at Shea.'' 
 ''We had a design and qualitative objective that had to make financial sense, and it does,'' he said. ''And if we sell a lot of tickets, it'll make a lot of financial sense.''
 To draw more than three million will mean selling out almost every game, unless the team augments those who pay for seats by selling 3,000 to 4,000 standing-room spots, which Howard said there was room to do in the wide concourses.
 Still, averaging 3.2 million or so every year will hinge largely on two factors: team success after the new-ballpark honeymoon ends and the fans' continued ability to pay for some generously priced fun in an economy that might take a long time to recover. 
 And it might help not to end the regular season by collapsing.
 Nate Silver, who analyzed the reduction of capacity in new ballparks last year for Baseball Prospectus, said that packing a 42,000-seat ballpark has a visual advantage.
 ''If you have empty seats on television, it looks bad,'' said Silver, who believes the Mets should have downsized much less. ''The idea of a full stadium is appealing.''
 Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College, agreed but understood the Mets' decision to be much smaller. 
 ''There is some sacrifice when the team is good,'' he said. ''But when the team is mediocre or bad, there is an issue about vacant seats that changes the feel of the ballpark if you're there or the look of it on TV.'' He added, ''The most successful teams create a buzz around a seat, that there's a scarcity value.''
 That psychology is at work, said Howard, in stoking demand for far fewer tickets in a ballpark where every seat is reputed to offer at least a good view.
 ''We wanted to redefine the fan experience,'' he said. ''We didn't have a high standard to meet at Shea. Once you got past the best 18,000 to 20,000 seats at Shea, the next available ones weren't good. People weren't anxious to buy tickets; they waited to see what was available.''
 The Mets' sizing decision at Citi was like the Phillies' choice to outfit Citizens Bank park with 43,647 seats, nearly 20,000 fewer than at multipurpose Veterans Stadium.
 Dave Montgomery, the team's general partner, said no thought was given to exceeding 45,000.
 ''Given previous demand and the fact that when you go into a new ballpark you want to start with full houses,'' he said, ''we determined that if we can draw three million, we'd be successful, and we've had three years north of that three times.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Building Smaller: Nearly all of the stadiums opened since 1991 have fewer seats than their predecessors. Chart details bar graphs for NEW STADIUM and OLD STADIUM. (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); BASEBALL (78%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); J F SHEA CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (86%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (91%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1132 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Odd Prize: Judging A Book By Its Title

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
To those outside dairy (or container) circles, a book called ''The 2009-2014 World Outlook for 60-Milligram Containers of Fromage Frais'' tends to provoke more questions than it resolves. Such as: Why fromage frais? And: ''60-Milligram'' -- is that a misprint? 
 But the book, geared to that slender segment of the population that both cares about dairy product cartons and is happy to spend hundreds of dollars to learn more about them, has just won an actual literary award. This is the Bookseller/Diagram Prize for Oddest Book Title of the Year, sponsored by The Bookseller magazine. 
 It is hardly the Nobel Prize in Literature. But following well-established awards practice, Philip Stone, the magazine's charts editor and ''awards administrator,'' released a congratulatory statement on Thursday. Sadly, it was not a ringing endorsement of the winner. 
 ''What does the future hold for these items?'' Mr. Stone asked, speaking of fromage-frais cartons. ''Well, given that fromage frais normally comes in 60-gram containers, one would assume that the world outlook for 0.06-gram containers of fromage frais is pretty bleak. But I'm not willing to pay $:795 to find out.'' (That's about $1,139.) 
 The work, actually a statistical report rather than a proper book, was written by Philip M. Parker, a professor of marketing at the French campus of Insead, the international business school. He uses econometric models to publish niche reports in the thousands. ''This may turn out to be the highest award that report will ever win,'' he said in an e-mail message. 
 The work beat stiff competition from the four actual books on the shortlist: ''Curbside Consultation of the Colon,'' ''The Large Sieve and Its Applications,'' ''Strip and Knit With Style'' and ''Techniques for Corrosion Monitoring.''
 Reached by telephone as he prepared to board a bus in New York, Mark Hordyszynski, the author of the losing ''Strip and Knit With Style,'' said that the ''strip'' in the title means ''cutting fabrics into strips.'' 
 ''Apparently in England, 'strip' basically has one meaning, and that means to get undressed,'' he said. ''So I understand their point.'' 
 In an e-mail message, Dr. Brooks D. Cash, who lost for ''Curbside Consultation of the Colon,'' part of a medical series, said that he was ''honored to be in such august company.'' Dr. Cash, chief of gastroenterology at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., added, ''I think being beaten by someone with that title is really cheesy.'' 
 The Diagram Prize began in 1978 as a way for Bruce Robertson, co-founder of the Diagram Group, an information and graphics company based in London, to combat his ennui at the Frankfurt Book Fair. That was a bumper year for odd titles -- nominees included ''100 Years of British Retail Catering'' and ''50 New Poodle Grooming Styles'' -- but the runaway winner was ''Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Nude Mice.''
 Publishers are not allowed to nominate their own books, so as to prevent them from giving books willfully odd names. That is pretty much the only rule. Anyone can nominate a title, and the public is invited to vote online at thebookseller.com. The prize's administrators try not to read the books, Mr. Stone said, because doing so might ''cloud our judgment.'' 
 In fact, no one may have read Dr. Parker's work. His reports are printed on demand, and he said he is not sure about sales because he tracks them by genre rather than by title. 
 Past winners include ''Versailles: The View From Sweden,'' ''Weeds in a Changing World'' and ''Reusing Old Graves.'' 
 Books that have made the shortlist but inexplicably failed to win include ''A Pictorial Book of Tongue Coatings,'' ''Sex After Death,'' ''Waterproofing Your Child'' and ''Cheese Problems Solved'' -- which, its publisher says, provides ''responses to more than 200 of the most commonly asked questions about cheese,'' with special emphasis on mozzarella, blue cheese and cheddar. 
 Authors don't lobby for the award; it is thrust upon them, sometimes without their even knowing they were contenders. 
 ''It came out of the blue,'' said Gary Leon Hill, who won in 2005 with ''People Who Don't Know They're Dead: How They Attach Themselves to Unsuspecting Bystanders and What to Do About It.'' He added, ''I was delighted by it because I'm happy to have anybody draw attention to the book.'' 
 Last year The Bookseller held a competition for the Diagram of Diagrams, a homage of sorts to the Booker of Bookers, awarded to the best Booker Prize-winning book of all time. (Salman Rushdie's ''Midnight's Children'' won that one.) In the case of the Diagram, the uber-prize went to ''Greek Rural Postmen and Their Cancellation Numbers.'' 
 This caused some controversy. Yes, that is an odd title, but surely not odder than ''How to Avoid Huge Ships,'' which won the 1992 prize.
 ''How to Avoid Huge Ships,'' in which John W. Trimmer, an old sea captain, offers shipping-lane safety tips to pleasure-boat sailors, has a select but fervent following, and on Friday evening was ranked No. 1,396,102 on Amazon.com.
 One critic said on Amazon that he wished the book had included more tips on differentiating between huge and less huge ships, so readers could be sure ''what size of ship they were avoiding.''
 But another raved: ''I never leave the house without this indispensable little book. It has literally saved my life many times while walking down Peckham High Street and Ealing Broadway.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (62%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) MARYLAND, USA (64%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) ENGLAND (66%); UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1133 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Medicare Part D Drug Benefits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Tumor at the Heart of Medicare'' (Op-Ed, March 21):
 Mark Lange refers to an article published in the journal Health Affairs, and states that taxpayers' cost of the Medicare Part D drug benefit ''has been 3.5 times the market value of those prescriptions.'' 
 In fact, Frank R. Lichtenberg of Columbia University and Shawn X. Sun of Walgreens Health Services, authors of the Health Affairs article, made a different point. Because many enrollees already had drug coverage before Part D, Medicare ended up paying for some prescriptions for enrollees that would have been filled anyway if Part D had not existed. 
 The authors estimated that for every seven prescriptions paid for by Part D, five would have been filled anyway if the program hadn't existed; only two were new. Therefore Part D outlays in 2006 ended up being 3.5 times the estimated market value of those additional two prescriptions.
 Susan Dentzer Editor in Chief, Health Affairs Bethesda, Md., March 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Chronic diseases, not lack of competition in the marketplace, are the real threat to Medicare's long-term survival. 
 Today chronic diseases like cancer, diabetes and heart disease are the leading causes of deaths in America as well as the leading driver of health care costs, eating up 75 cents out of every dollar spent. But patients who begin and continue treatments to keep their chronic diseases in check spend less time hospitalized, resulting in an overall reduction in health care costs. 
 One recent study, for example, found that improved use of blood-pressure-lowering medicines would result in 89,000 fewer deaths and 420,000 fewer hospitalizations per year, and would reduce health care costs by more than $16 billion a year. 
 As for the allegation of ''windfalls'' for the pharmaceutical industry, the Medicare Part D program, in its first year of existence, lifted retail prescription volume by 1 to 2 percentage points and increased pharmaceutical sales by less than 1 percentage point, according to IMS Health. 
 Here's the real solution: as a nation, we need to spend more time, energy and money trying to prevent disease, rather than treating it. 
 Ken Johnson Senior Vice President Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Washington, March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); CANCER (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (77%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DIABETES (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1134 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times For Luxury, But They'll Have a Go

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
As New Yorkers try to slash even the smallest splurges from their budgets, it would seem like a difficult time to try to persuade them to buy a $22,000 pair of 17-carat diamond-encrusted hoop earrings. In fact, Dalyah Duek-Flaks acknowledges that opening her new Madison Avenue diamond store, Dalyah, is about as well-timed as opening a cake shop on the eve of the French Revolution.
 But there she was at the gala opening of Dalyah on Thursday night, as about 185 friends and fashion veterans took turns squeezing into her tiny jewel box of a shop. They sipped chardonnay and sparkling wine, nibbled on chocolate truffles and cooed over the trinkets sparkling from her jewelry cases. Ms. Duek-Flaks wore her 4.5-carat engagement ring, which she typically keeps locked in her safe at home. 
 Her father, Moshe Duek, who runs the parent company providing the diamonds and flew in from South Africa for the party, nervously nodded as guests congratulated him on the opening.
 ''The timing is terrible, but we did the deal last year,'' he said while sipping a glass of chardonnay. ''What can we do?''
 Ms. Duek-Flaks's tale of unfortunate timing is one that plays out with surprising frequency across this city of small businesses. Even in the depths of the recession, new stores and restaurants open almost weekly, in neighborhoods wealthy and poor. Hers happens to be wealthy, but that does not mean that the odds for success, at this moment at least, seem greater.
 Ms. Duek-Flaks, a diminutive 35-year-old, arrived in the United States in 2007 to work as a 47th Street diamond wholesaler just when the subprime markets showed their first signs of indigestion. She decided instead to go into the retail business and signed the lease for her shop weeks before Lehman Brothers collapsed. 
 Just before her opening party, several shops around her closed and the nation's largest jewelers reported major losses and bankruptcies.
 ''If I can just sell whatever I can through these tough times, then we will survive,'' she said. ''It's an item that makes people happy. It's not like selling tombstones.''
 In recent years, many jewelry stores have arrived on Madison Avenue; they are among the few retailers who could afford the high rents. Matthew Bauer, president of the Madison Avenue Business Improvement District, said that between 57th and 86th Streets, the avenue has roughly 55 jewelers and fine watch shops. Since August, a half-dozen new jewelers opened new shops or renovated existing ones. Two other jewelers are expanding, he said.
 Still, the recession has been hurting even Madison Avenue. As Ms. Duek-Flaks looks out the window of her shop, she points to the deli across the street and the restaurant next door, both of which closed since she signed her lease. She is talking with her landlord about renegotiating her rent. 
 Some of the most stable diamond businesses have been hurt, too. Zale Corporation announced in February that it planned to close 115 stores. Fortunoff, the engagement ring source for generations of New Yorkers, filed for bankruptcy in February. Even Tiffany & Company reported that its profits in the fourth quarter dropped by more than 75 percent.
 Ms. Duek-Flaks may benefit from the theory that recessions can create opportunities for entrepreneurs. Jeffrey A. Carr, executive director of the Berkley Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at New York University's Stern School of Business, said entrepreneurs can thrive in recessions because they can bargain more on fixed costs like rent and personnel. Consumers are more willing to try out new brands when they have less money to spend, he said.
 ''When things are going well and you have money, customers and consumers tend to get into patterns,'' he said. ''There's lots of reasons to start a business now.''
 Ms. Duek-Flaks is determined to carry on her family's role in the diamond business. Her father started working as a diamond sorter in Jerusalem when he was 14 and moved to South Africa at 23 to work for Protea Diamonds. He eventually bought the company, and Dalyah and her two brothers have followed him into the family business.
 She hopes to survive by offering diamonds at the wholesale prices she negotiates by buying from her family. She is also trying to appeal to New Yorkers' preference for flashier diamonds.
 ''The tastes are big,'' she said. ''The small demure doesn't fly here.''
 Ann Rapp, a socialite who arrived at the Thursday night event in a brimmed hat and few baubles, said that there was a ''big clash'' among wealthy women about whether they should wear their big diamonds publicly in the recession.
 ''Some people say yes. Some people say no,'' she said.
 Cheryl Simmons, a fashion stylist who gazed into the cabinet of colored jewels, says yes -- within reason. She said a recession gives women the opportunity to wear fewer diamonds, and she considers that more tasteful. 
 ''Two years ago, people had piles and piles of jewelry on. It wasn't nice,'' she said. ''It was trashy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Madison Avenue's newest jeweler, Dalyah, at 58th Street, at its grand opening Thursday, and at right, a display case inside. The lease was signed before the recession closed nearby shops.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); JEWELRY (89%); JEWELRY STORES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); RECESSION (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); DIAMOND MARKETS (72%); JEWELRY WHOLESALERS (72%); RETAIL BAKERIES (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (62%); CEMETERY MEMORIAL DEALERS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1135 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Ire at Wall St. Is Now Factor In House Race

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: BALLSTON SPA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The race for the 20th Congressional District seat has never been solely about the concerns of the residents of the 10 mostly rural counties in the district.
 Nationally, Republicans have sent in money and campaign workers, hoping to recapture the seat and post their first victory since November's blowout election.
 Democrats, with the help of President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., are trumpeting the administration's economic plan, trying to show that their party's message can resonate with hard-hit middle-class voters far from Washington.
 And now, in the final days before Tuesday's election, the drama over big bonuses for Wall Street executives has overtaken all other subjects in the contest to succeed Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand. 
 One volunteer for Scott Murphy, the Democratic candidate -- and a venture capitalist -- said last week that he had been calling voters to promote Mr. Murphy's virtues, but was getting an earful of anger about the bonuses awarded to American International Group employees.
 ''They conflate what's happening with A.I.G. and everything with a downward feeling about business in general,'' the volunteer, Richard Stanger, a retired professor and minister, warned Mr. Murphy at a diner here this week. ''And unfortunately, you're getting tarred with that.''
 Mr. Murphy, who has never held office, had galloped to neck-and-neck in the polls on the strength of his support for the federal stimulus package and his experience creating jobs through his investments in start-ups. 
 But the issue of bonus pay has exploded in his path, giving sudden energy to his Republican rival, Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, and throwing the outcome of Tuesday's special election into some doubt.
 Now, Mr. Tedisco, an Albany veteran, is trying to hang the A.I.G. bonuses around Mr. Murphy's neck.
 ''Scott, I've got to ask you, did you read that legislation, those 1,100 pages?'' Mr. Tedisco, referring to the stimulus bill that permitted the bonuses, said in a raucous debate Tuesday night that covered little else. ''And if you did read it, and you knew that A.I.G. was going to be able to spend $165 million to pay for bonuses for executives that tore down our economy, why did you vote for it?'' (Mr. Tedisco sometimes sounds as if Mr. Murphy already is in the House.)
 The question has left Mr. Murphy squirming, refusing to give an answer while saying that the A.I.G. bonuses were ''reprehensible and wrong'' and that he would help get the money back if elected.
 Still, the race is far closer than anyone predicted here, in a conservative Congressional district where Republicans hold a 75,000-vote registration edge, and where no one had heard of the 39-year-old Mr. Murphy before he impressed Democratic leaders with his ability to finance his campaign partly out of his own pocket.
 Meandering from the Catskills to the Adirondacks, the district encompasses struggling dairy farms, creaky industrial towns, weathered tourist spots and the civil servant-packed Albany suburbs. It is a part of the state where voters espouse fiscal conservatism but love representatives who deliver, like the late Gerald B. H. Solomon, a 10-term Republican, and, more recently, Ms. Gillibrand.
 In the end, Democrats are counting on that penchant for pork, and voters' overriding economic anxieties, to carry Mr. Murphy to victory over the better-known Mr. Tedisco. 
 The outcome seems to hinge on who will show up to vote: those lashing out against bonuses and waste, or those expressing hope for the stimulus to work.
 For weeks, Mr. Murphy had hammered Mr. Tedisco, 58, for refusing to take a position on the stimulus legislation, which Democratic polls showed overwhelming support for in the district. But Mr. Tedisco's hands were tied: his Republican allies in Washington had made their opposition a pillar of party strategy.
 The momentum, it seemed, was Mr. Murphy's.
 Last week, however, after a radio interview in which he again wriggled away from questions about his stance, Mr. Tedisco had had enough. He called a news conference and declared his opposition to the stimulus with a shouted ''No!'' -- which Mr. Murphy immediately put to use in a television ad: 
 In a stroke of luck for Mr. Tedisco, his announcement came just as news had broken that A.I.G., which has received $170 billion in taxpayer bailout money, was giving $165 million in bonuses to executives in the unit that brought the company to the brink of collapse last year -- and that language prohibiting those bonuses had been removed from the stimulus legislation.
 Mr. Tedisco has pounced on the issue, claiming that the A.I.G. story ''validated'' his monthlong reluctance to embrace the stimulus bill.
 The bonus scandal also aligned with Mr. Tedisco's contention throughout the campaign that Mr. Murphy sympathized not with ordinary voters but with rich Wall Street guys.
 Among Mr. Murphy's investments is a Buffalo company, Synacor, that he calls a ''huge success story,'' because it grew from 30 employees to 200 in a few years. The company, like many start-ups, has lost money for several years. And executives were given incentive bonuses while Mr. Murphy was one of its directors.
 In Mr. Tedisco's telling, Mr. Murphy's success story is anything but. ''Like A.I.G., Scott Murphy gave huge bonuses to executives in a company losing millions,'' one of Mr. Tedisco's sharpest ads warns. ''A.I.G. and Murphy: He's one of them.''
 Absorbing his rival's blows, Mr. Murphy is betting that voters will still prefer the candidate who favored the stimulus package over one who opposed it -- and that they will hold Mr. Tedisco's attacks against him.
 So he is chasing after Mr. Tedisco for claiming the stimulus contained as much as $300 billion in pork. ''That's half the bill,'' Mr. Murphy said, saying Mr. Tedisco must think that middle-class tax cuts, energy and infrastructure investment or other measures were a waste.
 Mr. Murphy can count on some help in the final push to Tuesday. With the latest public polls giving Mr. Murphy a slender lead, President Obama, who narrowly won the district, has lent his support through a written endorsement and an e-mail message urging his followers to help out. Mr. Biden added a radio ad. And Ms. Gillibrand, whose popularity in the district crosses party lines, is headed back home to help rally voters on Sunday.
 That the race ever got this close, of course, was a bad sign for the Republican Party given its numerical advantage, though the Obama and Gillibrand wins suggest the numbers may lie. Meanwhile, the Republican National Committee chairman, Michael Steele, has vowed to make Mr. Tedisco's victory a turning point for the battered party, and it has poured about $1.1 million into the race -- nearly twice what national Democrats have spent. Hundreds of thousands more have streamed in from outside groups, including more than $900,000 from two conservative political action committees backing Mr. Tedisco, and $350,000 from two unions supporting Mr. Murphy.
 Much of the focus in the final few days is on getting voters to the polls; the turnout in special elections is especially hard to predict. Mr. Tedisco, who lives outside the district but appears regularly on Albany television, is hoping his familiarity with voters can ultimately help him prevail.
 ''I've lived, I've worked, I've represented upstate New York as a leader for many years,'' Mr. Tedisco said Tuesday night, saying his experience equipped him best to fight for the district and against wasteful federal spending. ''We cannot continue to show a lack of leadership by accepting what government gives us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Murphy, left, and James N. Tedisco before their debate. They are running for the 20th Congressional District seat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BONUS PAY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1136 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Judge Favors Lower Bond in Case Against Palestinians

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

 BODY:
Citing an economic crisis in the Palestinian territories, a federal magistrate judge has recommended reducing a $192.7 million bond that the Palestinian Authority was ordered to post in order to defend a terrorism lawsuit in New York City. 
 But the magistrate judge said the Palestinians should still post a $120 million bond, payable on an installment plan -- $20 million down, and the rest in $5 million monthly increments.
 The recommendation, which now goes to a federal district judge, is the latest twist in a case filed under a law that allows American victims of international terrorism to sue for triple damages in the United States courts.
 The lawsuit was filed by the family of Aharon Ellis, the sole American killed when a Palestinian gunman burst into a bat mitzvah celebration in 2002 in northern Israel, killing 6 people and wounding more than 30. 
 The suit charged that the Palestinian Authority and Palestine Liberation Organization had orchestrated the attack, and when the Palestinians refused to defend the suit on the merits, a judge, Victor Marrero of Federal District Court in Manhattan, ordered a default judgment, and the family was awarded $192.7 million in damages.
 Later, the defendants, saying they had changed leadership, had new lawyers and were committed to defending the suit in good faith, asked for a second chance. They argued that the gunman acted alone, without their direction or assistance. Judge Marrero agreed to set aside the verdict on the condition that the defendants post a $192.7 million bond.
 When the Palestinians, saying they were ''teetering on the verge of bankruptcy,'' proposed a smaller bond of $15 million, a new legal battle erupted.
 A lawyer for the family, David J. Strachman, opposed reducing the bond, arguing that the defendants owned valuable tracts of land and had hidden bank accounts that were once controlled by the P.L.O. chairman Yasir Arafat, who died in 2004.
 A magistrate judge, Theodore H. Katz, who was assigned the matter, wrote on Thursday that the plaintiffs' lawyers, with ''some justification,'' viewed the defendants' representations about their assets ''with great skepticism.''
 But, he said, contrary to the plaintiffs' contention, ''there is no evidence that the P.A. and P.L.O. have concealed millions of dollars, or 'have huge and vast reserves of assets' that are readily available.'' 
 Judge Katz added that ''the economic situation in the Palestinian territories is dire'' and that ordering the defendants to post $192.7 million ''could disrupt the provision of essential services to millions of citizens.''
 A bond of $120 million, he said, would still provide the plaintiffs ''with an identifiable and readily obtainable source of recovery that they would otherwise be required to spend enormous time and expense tracking down, with questionable likelihood of success.''
 The family's lawyer, Mr. Strachman, said he was still reviewing the ruling, but said the court recognized that his clients ''have an overwhelming need for security from these belligerent and recalcitrant defendants.'' Defense lawyers were not available for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); TERRORISM (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MAGISTRATES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); VERDICTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DAMAGES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1137 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: When the Stork Carries a Pink Slip

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
HERE'S a pop quiz: Which of the following would violate federal employment law? 
 1. Laying off a pregnant woman.
 2. Laying off a woman on maternity leave.
 Pencils down. The answer is ''neither.''
 It may not sound fair, as the national layoff tsunami is swamping even households with new infants, or babies en route. But it is entirely legal to lay off a pregnant woman or a woman on maternity leave -- as long as the employer can make the case that she is being let go for a reason unrelated to her pregnancy. 
 To be sure, it is illegal to dismiss someone or refuse to hire her specifically because she is pregnant, according to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. But few employers are foolish enough to cite pregnancy as the reason for firing or not hiring someone. 
 Aside from such blatant discrimination, pregnant women have no special protection under federal employment law, says Elizabeth Grossman, a lawyer for the New York district office of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
 Ms. Grossman is among the lawyers who suspect that some employers are now using the law's laxity and the dismal economy to tacitly discriminate against new or expectant mothers. She and other experts urge women who suspect such discrimination to seek legal counsel.
 ''Some employers are using the economy as a pretense for laying off just one person,'' Ms. Grossman said. ''And very often that person is pregnant or the oldest employee on staff. The economy may be the legitimate cause -- or there may be discrimination.''
 Last year the number of pregnancy-based discrimination charges filed with the E.E.O.C. was up nearly 50 percent from a decade earlier, to a total of 6,285. That number seems likely to rise even higher this year. 
 At the WorkLife Law hot line run by the University of California Hastings College of the Law, where the phones seldom used to ring, a dozen calls a week are now coming in, according to Cynthia Calvert, deputy director of the Center for WorkLife Law. The free hot line (1-800-981-9495) gives legal information to parents and caregivers of children or elderly parents, who feel they are being discriminated against because of their family obligations. 
 ''Many of the callers,'' Ms. Calvert said, ''are pregnant women apprehensive that they may be targeted for layoffs, or pregnant women or women on maternity leave who were already let go.''
 Labor law's flimsy shield often comes as a shock to women. Last December, Sarah Feider, 39, suspected layoffs were imminent at her workplace -- a large publishing house in New York City. Citing her severance agreement, she insisted that the employer not be identified. 
 ''My friends were saying: 'You're fine. No way would they lay you off,' '' Ms. Feider recalls. Not only was she seven months pregnant, but her husband had recently lost his job. ''Everyone assumed it was illegal or against some moral code to fire a pregnant woman,'' she said.
 But five days after she and her husband moved into a new apartment, Ms. Feider got the news. She was being let go as part of companywide cutbacks. 
 ''It was awful -- I was planning to work until I went into labor, and to return after taking my allotted maternity leave,'' said Ms. Feider, the mother of a 5-week-old boy, Roman. ''Instead of being given an office baby shower, I was given a pink slip.'' 
 She talked informally to a few lawyers about her situation. ''I did wonder if my being pregnant factored into their decision,'' she said. ''They knew I was going to be out for at least three months, and they needed bodies in the office to get the work done.'' But because she was part of a larger downsizing by the employer, the lawyers said discrimination might be hard to prove.
 Ellina Kevorkian was laid off from the Neiman Marcus store in Beverly Hills when she was eight months pregnant. Her position, office coordinator in the precious jewelry department, was eliminated companywide. 
 ''In order to collect unemployment, you are supposed to be looking for a job,'' she said. ''But who can look for a job when they are in their last weeks of pregnancy?'' After Ms. Kevorkian's doctor vouched for her inability to work, she was able to start drawing state disability benefits. ''At a time when you're so vulnerable, you have so little protection,'' Ms. Kevorkian said. 
 Ginger Reeder, a spokeswoman for the Neiman Marcus Group, confirmed Ms. Kevorkian's account of the layoff, adding that ''everyone whose job was eliminated this year was offered a similar severance package.'' 
 If a pregnant laid-off employee worked for a small company -- fewer than 20 employees -- affordable health insurance can be difficult to find. That is because small employers are not required under federal Cobra law to offer medical benefits to former employees. 
 And most individual policies people can find on their own, if they can find them at all, do not cover childbirth -- except with the purchase of a special rider that in some states may require a wait of up to two years, notes Marcia D. Greenberger, co-president of the National Women's Law Center, an advocacy organization based in Washington. 
 Fortunately for Poonam Sharma, 36, an architect in Los Angeles, she and her family were eligible for Cobra coverage after she was laid off. She got the news in early February -- when her daughter, Noor, was 2 months old -- that she was one of seven people being let go from her 70-person firm. Ms. Sharma had planned to return after a maternity leave of three and a half months. 
 Because of the recent 65 percent reduction in Cobra premiums under the new federal economic stimulus package, coverage for Ms. Sharma, her husband and daughter will be manageable, at $231 a month. But that is small solace for being laid off. 
 ''I was shocked and disappointed,'' Ms. Sharma recalled. ''I don't think they were singling me out, but it is convenient to lay off a woman on maternity leave. She's not working on any projects, so nothing gets disrupted.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Grossman at the E.E.O.C. said some employers used the economy to justify layoffs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (94%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); PARENTING (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); PUBLISHING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1138 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: An Arctic Circle of Friends

BYLINE: By SCOTT BORGERSON and CAITLYN ANTRIM. 
Scott Borgerson is the visiting fellow for ocean governance at the Council on Foreign Relations. Caitlyn Antrim is the executive director of the Rule of Law Committee for the Oceans.

 BODY:
THE North Pole is under siege by global warming. The sea ice there has lost half its thickness in the past six years, and all signs point to further rapid melting. By 2013, the entire Arctic could be devoid of ice in summer, and the region is likely to experience an influx of shipping, fishing and tourism. Russia planted its flag in the North Pole's ocean floor two years ago, and other northern nations find themselves under mounting pressure to lay claim to huge swaths of the seabed. Before the land grab goes too far, the nations most involved should turn the northernmost part of the Arctic into a great park -- a marine preserve that protects the polar environment and serves as a center for peaceful, international scientific research.
 The Arctic's pristine waters are a leading indicator, and an important regulator, of global climate health. They are the beginning and the end of the so-called great ocean conveyor, the mighty current that connects all the world's oceans. And they are home to a vibrant ecosystem that supports whales, polar bears and terns. 
 Driving much of the new interest in the Arctic, however, are the stores of oil and gas that lie beneath the water -- amounting to an estimated 22 percent of the earth's remaining supplies. The largest deposits, however, are likely to be found in the shallower parts of the continental shelf, within the surrounding countries' existing economic zones. Any fields found at greater depths, within the boundaries of the proposed park, would be prohibitively expensive to exploit for at least decades to come. For sovereignty claims, North Pole oil is a red herring. 
 The Convention on the Law of the Sea, the international treaty that sets the rules for ownership of ocean resources, recognizes that Canada, Denmark, Norway and Russia, the four countries neighboring the Arctic Ocean, may be entitled to extend their seabed boundaries -- and even sets a deadline for doing so. (Because the United States has not joined the Convention, it cannot make a claim to the extended continental shelf.) But it leaves it to those countries to resolve overlapping claims among themselves. Disputes over jurisdiction stand to slow the process of setting up a system for protecting the Arctic and could also poison international relations elsewhere. The creation of an international park would head off both problems.
 One approach would be for the states and international organizations most involved in the Arctic to designate everything above 88 degrees latitude north -- a circle with a 120-nautical-mile radius -- as a marine park. This would be consistent with an idea presented in 1987 by Mikhail Gorbachev of the Soviet Union to create an Arctic ''zone of peace.'' And it has precedent in the 1959 treaty that created an international zone for scientific research in Antarctica, and that has governed that continent so well ever since. 
 Like Antarctica, the park could be managed by an international cooperative, including not only Canada, Denmark and Russia but also the United States, China, Finland, Germany, Japan, Norway, Sweden and any other countries that engage in Arctic research. 
 Canada, Denmark and Russia would benefit from such an initiative because each would avoid the kind of legal conflict and jurisdictional uncertainty that could discourage private investment in the surrounding areas. And the sovereignty extensions that have already been approved by the Continental Shelf Commission, a body established by parties to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, could be put into effect without delay. All three countries could also use the new scientific research to help them better manage their Arctic resources. And the park would not interfere with any nation's freedom of navigation.
 It might seem presumptuous for Americans to suggest that our northern neighbors forgo ownership of even a small part of the Arctic seabed. Admiral Robert Peary may have planted the American flag at the North Pole 100 years ago, but we have no territorial stake in the Lomonosov Ridge, the submarine link between Eurasia and North America that is the source of the competing claims. We do, however, have a vested interest in the peaceful development of the Arctic as a region. As citizens of a shared earth, we also have a stake in the greater good that can come from exploring the depths of the fastest warming part of the planet. American leadership on a polar park would send a clear message that we are attuned to the climate crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); OCEANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (88%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); LAW OF THE SEA (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); FISHES (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) ARCTIC (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); ANTARCTICA (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1139 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Graveyard Myths

BYLINE: By PETER BERGEN. 
Peter Bergen is a senior fellow at the New America Foundation and the author of ''The Osama bin Laden I Know.''

 BODY:
AS President Obama orders an additional 21,000 troops to Afghanistan, he faces growing skepticism over the United States' prospects there. Critics of the troop buildup often point out that Afghanistan has long been the ''graveyard of empires.'' In 1842, the British lost a nasty war that ended when fierce tribesmen notoriously destroyed an army of thousands retreating from Kabul. And, of course, the Soviets spent almost a decade waging war in Afghanistan, only to give up ignominiously in 1989. 
 But in fact, these are only two isolated examples. Since Alexander the Great, plenty of conquerors have subdued Afghanistan. In the early 13th century, Genghis Khan's Mongol hordes ravaged the country's two major cities. And in 1504, Babur, the founder of the Mughal Empire in India, easily took the throne in Kabul. Even the humiliation of 1842 did not last. Three and a half decades later, the British initiated a punitive invasion and ultimately won the second Anglo-Afghan war, which gave them the right to determine Afghanistan's foreign policy. 
 The Soviet disaster of the 1980s, for its part, cannot be credited to the Afghans' legendary fighting skills alone, as the mujahideen were kept afloat by billions of dollars worth of aid from the United States and Saudi Arabia and sophisticated American military hardware like anti-aircraft Stinger missiles, which ended the Soviets' total air superiority. 
 In any case, today's American-led intervention in Afghanistan can hardly be compared to the Soviet occupation. The Soviet Army employed a scorched-earth policy, killing more than a million Afghans, forcing some five million more to flee the country, and sowing land mines everywhere. 
 While the American military is killing too many Afghan civilians, in any given year the numbers are in the hundreds, not the hundreds of thousands. And even the most generous estimates of today's Taliban insurgency suggest it is no more than 20,000 men. About 10 times as many Afghans fought against the Soviet occupation. 
 The Soviet experience in Afghanistan weighed heavily on the minds of Bush administration policymakers, who kept a ''light footprint'' lest Afghans rebuff American and allied soldiers as hated occupiers. But as it turned out, the Afghans were widely enthusiastic about being liberated from the Taliban. In an ABC/BBC poll conducted in 2005, a full four years after the fall of the Taliban, 8 in 10 Afghans expressed a favorable opinion of the United States -- an extraordinary proportion in a Muslim nation -- and the same number supported the American-led overthrow of the Taliban in their country. 
 And just last month, in a new poll by ABC and the BBC, 58 percent of Afghans named the Taliban as the greatest threat to their nation. Only 8 percent said it was the United States. And while only 47 percent of Afghans still had a favorable opinion of America, the Taliban fared far worse, with just 7 percent approval.
 What Afghans want is for international forces to do what they should have been doing all along -- provide them the security they need to get on with making a living. That means building up the Afghan Army and police, which are only about one-fourth the size of the security services in Iraq. This will not come cheap, but the cost of putting an Afghan soldier in the field is only one-seventieth that of sending an American. President Obama, who will travel to Europe for NATO's 60th anniversary in early April, can ask those European countries that are reluctant to send additional troops to Afghanistan to instead contribute to a permanent fund to help pay for the expanded Afghan security services. 
 The United States should also focus on projects that will bring both security and economic benefits to Afghans. A key task is to secure the all-important road between Kabul and Kandahar, a once-pleasant freeway that has become a nightmarish gantlet of potential Taliban ambushes. 
 Afghanistan's vast opium/heroin industry finances the Taliban and feeds rampant government corruption. The American Drug Enforcement Administration should make public the names of the top Afghan drug lords, including government officials, so that they can no longer act with impunity. And because Afghanistan's court system is still incapable of handling major drug cases, Kabul should sign a treaty with Washington that would allow key heroin traffickers to be tried in the United States.
 Measures like these would help return Afghanistan to something like the state it was before the Soviets invaded in 1979: a relatively peaceful country slowly building itself into something more than a purely agricultural economy.
 Afghanistan is no longer the graveyard of any empire. Rather, it just might become the model of a somewhat stable Central Asian state.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LANDMINES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1140 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: The Benefits of Family Planning for the Environment

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Progress on Family Planning'' (editorial, March 14): 
 There are many advantages to President Obama's recent actions on family planning: They will help women of all incomes control their fertility. They will provide better education, economic, resource-use and family-raising opportunities. And they will help prevent abortions and unwanted pregnancies. 
 But there is additional value: They will aid in achieving environmental sustainability. Family planning plays a central role in balancing our unprecedented demands (in numbers of people and per capita resource consumption) with the environment's ability to provide. 
 By taking family planning seriously, we also pave the way to environmental protection.
 We're making headway on resource use (witness the widespread efforts on climate change), yet we haven't adequately linked family planning to its environmental advantages (less demand for resources, as well as less impact on the air, land, water and habitats). 
 Vicky Markham New Canaan, Conn., March 16, 2009
 The writer is the founding director of the Center for Environment and Population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY PLANNING (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); WRITERS (73%); ABORTION (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1141 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: The Remembered War

 BODY:
With his new comprehensive plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan, President Obama has asserted leadership over the war that matters most to America's security -- the one against Al Qaeda and the Taliban. 
 We do not underestimate the difficulty of succeeding against these deadly adversaries. But it was greatly encouraging simply to see the president actually focusing on this war and placing it in the broader regional framework that has been missing from American policy. That is a good first step toward fixing the dangerous situation that former President George W. Bush created when he abandoned the necessary war in Afghanistan for the ill-conceived war of choice in Iraq. 
 Mr. Obama has come back to first principles. Instead of Mr. Bush's vague talk of representative democracy in Afghanistan, he defined a more specific mission. ''We are not in Afghanistan to control that country or dictate its future,'' Mr. Obama said, but ''to disrupt, dismantle and defeat Al Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan.'' 
 The United States removed the Taliban from power in Afghanistan in 2001 as it sought to stamp out the Al Qaeda militants behind the 9/11 attacks. More than seven years later, the Taliban and Al Qaeda are stronger than ever. Militants have crossed the border into Pakistan, where they plot attacks against the United States, its allies and Pakistan.
 To rebuild popular support for a mission that once was a global priority, Mr. Obama and other leaders have to keep repeating this message: If Afghanistan falls, if Pakistan falls, extremists will unleash even more fury. That is a threat to us all. Mr. Obama's plan breaks welcome new ground by treating Afghanistan and Pakistan as a single coherent theater of operation. It finally sets benchmarks for measuring progress by Kabul and Islamabad. It seeks to bring other regional players into the discussion, including Iran and Russia.
 The new plan also recognizes there is no military-only solution. We are encouraged by Mr. Obama's plans to send hundreds of civilians to help develop new jobs in Afghanistan and an economy not tied to poppy production. Like him, we strongly endorse a bipartisan Congressional proposal to invest $1.5 billion annually in Pakistan's people with the building of schools, hospitals and roads. America cannot hope to defeat the insurgents if Afghans and Pakistanis don't see their lives improve. 
 Mr. Obama confronts many challenges. He must persuade the Pakistani intelligence service to stop underwriting the Taliban and the Afghan government to eradicate corruption. He also must persuade NATO to contribute more to the war effort -- if not combat troops in Afghanistan, then trainers or development aid. 
 His plans to urge so-called moderate Taliban to abandon their hard-line leaders is worth trying. But that will require dealing with one of the most disturbing bits of news of the last week. More than seven years into the fight, the leader of the American intelligence community acknowledged that it knows shockingly little about the Taliban command structure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); ARMED FORCES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1142 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: High-Minded Budget Goals Yield to Reality

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When President Obama unveiled his spending plan last month, he loudly proclaimed a return to honest budgeting and called for elimination of the cute fiscal acrobatics that the government had used for years to avoid facing up to cold truths.
 Knowing that more bank bailouts were all but certain, Mr. Obama's budget proposal set aside another $250 billion, owning up to the inevitable expense. 
 He insisted on a permanent fix for the alternative minimum tax -- at a cost of $576 billion over 10 years -- acknowledging once and for all that lawmakers would never allow millions of middle-income families to pay the tax and that revenue projected from it would never materialize. 
 And he pegged another $330 billion for Medicare payments to physicians, to end an annual ritual in which Congress must act to prevent a huge cut in doctor fees. 
 Fiscal watchdogs in Washington were flabbergasted; the banishing of budget tricks seemed too good to be true. 
 Apparently, it was.
 After new long-term economic projections by the Congressional Budget Office showed $2.3 trillion added to the deficit over 10 years, Democratic lawmakers had no choice but to discard many of the president's high-minded budgetary goals as they sought to keep his main priorities intact. 
 First, lawmakers shifted from 10-year fiscal blueprints to 5-year plans, effectively hiding the projections of a staggering increase in federal debt from 2014 to 2019.
 Both Congressional Democrats and the White House argued that projections by the budget office were overly pessimistic and too uncertain. Still, lawmakers based their budgets on those numbers even though they were under no obligation to do so, recognizing that the budget office's numbers are widely regarded as nonpartisan and reliable. 
 The House and Senate Budget Committees removed the $250 billion for future bank rescues, a move that the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said reflected the simple reality that Congress was in no mood to approve more bailouts. 
 At the same time, the House spending plan assumes $68.6 billion will be spent to fix the alternative minimum tax for just one more year. The Senate provides a three-year patch, at a cost of $214 billion, but still allows the phantom revenue from the tax to make the deficit look smaller in the final two years of the plan. 
 And while the House budget envisions spending up to $285 billion over 10 years to avoid the cuts in Medicare payments to doctors, although without a clear way to cover the expense, the Senate plan expects the issue to be resolved as part of the overall changes in national health care policy, which cannot raise the deficit. 
 ''I think transparency has taken a step back, perhaps, in deference to trying to get a budget resolution passed,'' said Robert L. Bixby, the executive director of the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan group that advocates for fiscal responsibility. ''The gimmicks don't get used for nothing. They are used to help make the numbers come out where they want to go.'' 
 Mr. Bixby said lawmakers seemed to have taken a good hard look at the economic numbers over 10 years, as Mr. Obama had demanded, only to realize that the outlook was terrible and that meeting their goals would be impossible. ''So you just close your eyes and don't look at them,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Bixby and other watchdogs said the budgets put forward by Congressional Democrats were still a big step forward from the spending plans advanced by the Bush administration and adopted when Republicans held the majority. 
 Unlike the Bush budgets, the Democrats' budgets this year included the cost of war operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. And the House plan took a cue from Mr. Obama and allocated $10 billion a year for disaster relief, to end what many officials said was an absurd budgetary assumption that there would be no hurricanes, tornadoes or floods.
 For Mr. Obama, the situation seems to be win-win. He can claim to have made his best effort at honesty in budgeting, while his allies on Capitol Hill were left to do the heavy-lifting to make his agenda workable. 
 But there is no escaping the potential ramifications of large deficits, and the sobering prospect that annual interest costs on the federal debt could soon exceed the entire military budget. 
 And Republicans, who initially praised Mr. Obama's effort at transparency, have not overlooked the opportunity for a new attack line. 
 Putting a twist on the Republican mantra that the president's budget spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much, Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee, said the plan put forward by the committee chairman, Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, was also opaque.
 ''The proposal from Senator Conrad,'' Mr. Gregg said, ''spends too much, taxes too much and hides too much.'' 
 Democratic leaders, however, credited Mr. Conrad, and the House Budget Committee chairman, Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina, with doing a masterful job of preserving the president's core policy priorities amid a dismal financial outlook -- including most of the president's tax cuts for middle-class Americans. 
 ''We are doing something in this budget that is unique during the last eight years, and that is be honest,'' Mr. Reid said. ''We're including war costs in this budget. We are including the costs of Social Security in this budget. We are doing something unique in this budget; we have a pay-for plan, that is everything has to be paid for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama talking about his budget last month at the White House. Some of his goals have proved unattainable.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); FAMILY (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HARRY REID (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1143 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: With Obama in White House, Flush Times for the Nation's Black News Media

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For the nation's black magazines, newspapers, and television and radio stations, the arrival of the Obama administration has ushered in an era of unprecedented access to the White House.
 President Obama gave Black Enterprise magazine his first print interview and gave a black talk show host one of his first radio interviews. This month, he invited 50 black newspaper publishers to meet with him at the White House. And at his news conference Tuesday, he skipped over several prominent newspapers and newsmagazines to call on Kevin Chappell, a senior editor at Ebony magazine.
 It was the first time an Ebony reporter had been invited to question a president at a prime-time news conference. 
 ''We have, at last, an equal seat at the table,'' said Bryan Monroe, the vice president and editorial director of Ebony and Jet magazines. ''We're not going to get everything we need. But now we definitely can be heard.'' 
 Mr. Obama is cultivating a new cast of media insiders in the nation's capital, the correspondents and editors of the black media outlets that are devoting more staff members and resources to covering the first African-American president. 
 Outreach to these journalists allows Mr. Obama to get his message to black audiences through news organizations that typically celebrate rather than criticize this president. Officials say that the organizations reach people who are often missed by mainstream outlets and that their efforts reflect the president's commitment to reach out to all Americans. 
 ''We want people to know what we are doing and how the administration's policies will impact their community,'' said Corey A. Ealons, the president's recently appointed director of African-American media.
 In recent weeks, the administration has invited black media groups to listen in on conference calls with several senior Obama advisers, including Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff; Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser; and Shaun Donovan, the housing secretary. Officials also organized a meeting with Melody C. Barnes, who leads the president's Domestic Policy Council. (The administration is also reaching to Spanish-language media and other minority media groups.)
 In his meeting last week with the black publishers, Mr. Obama praised the role that black newspapers had played in supporting his candidacy and presidency.
 ''The reason that I've been able and Michelle has been able to do what we're doing is because of the extraordinary support and thoughtfulness with which you've covered our campaigns and our activities, and so I am very thankful to you,'' Mr. Obama told members of the National Newspaper Publishers Association, which represents more than 200 black newspapers.
 But if the new access to the White House has brought new relevance and respect to outlets long relegated to the sidelines here, it has also stoked the debate about whether the black media should regard Mr. Obama with a more critical eye.
 In an interview this month on National Public Radio, Tavis Smiley, a well-known black radio and television host, urged journalists -- black and white -- to assess Mr. Obama's performance critically.
 ''I think the ground is fertile for Barack Obama to be a great president,'' Mr. Smiley said. ''I think he can be, but only if we help make him a great president. Great presidents have to be pushed into their greatness.''
 But Mr. Smiley warned that criticizing Mr. Obama was not for ''the faint of heart.'' 
 Mr. Smiley resigned last year as a regular commentator on ''The Tom Joyner Morning Show'' after receiving a hail of angry e-mail and phone calls for questioning Mr. Obama's commitment to black issues.
 Black media groups insist, however, that they will hold the president's feet to the fire, and they say they have added resources to provide more coverage.
 Black Entertainment Television has added a second White House correspondent to its team here, and the network broadcast live coverage of Mr. Obama's first address to Congress and his two news conferences.
 Essence, a magazine that is dedicated to black women, has hired its first Washington correspondent. Johnson Publishing Company, the media group based in Chicago that owns Ebony and Jet, has added a feature entitled ''Inside Washington'' to Jet, a weekly publication. 
 In addition to celebratory articles about the inauguration, Mr. Obama's marriage, his family and his management style, some publications have examined the president's economic plans and concerns that problems of blacks may be overlooked.
 Black Enterprise recently ran an article in which several black economists dissected Mr. Obama's economic stimulus plan, with some questioning the effectiveness of tax cuts and raising concerns about whether the plan addresses high levels of unemployment among blacks.
 Hazel Trice Edney, editor in chief of the National Newspaper Publishers Association's news service, notes that black reporters are still rarely called on in the daily White House briefings. And Ms. Edney noted that the administration refused to allow the black publishers who met with Mr. Obama to ask him any questions or to cover the event. (She defied the ban by recording the meeting and reporting on it.)
 ''Kevin was wonderful, and we're glad he was called on,'' Ms. Edney said of Mr. Chappell. ''But that's just one magazine.''
 At the same time, however, some black journalists at black media organizations promise to continue their historic role of cheering on black achievements -- the president's included -- because they say mainstream publications will not always do so. 
 Dorothy Leavell, the chairwoman of the National Newspaper Publishers Association Foundation, received warm applause last week when she told her fellow publishers that Mr. Obama's election made her ''feel so proud that someone so exceptional, someone so vibrant, could lead this country.''
 During the meeting with Mr. Obama, Ms. Leavell presented the president with her organization's newsmaker of the year award. ''We've got your back,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Chappell, right, at the White House briefing on Friday. He broke ground at the Obama news conference this week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1144 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Border Control

 BODY:
The Obama administration has taken sensible steps to keep Mexico's vicious drug war from spilling over the border. The homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, announced that she was sending hundreds more agents and officers to patrol the border region and to work with the authorities in Mexico. She also is bolstering screening technology at border crossings to root out drugs, drug money, guns and violent fugitives. 
 The moves were encouraging for the realism and proportion they bring to the job of controlling a long and all-too-lawless border. They add resources to curb the deadliest illegal flow -- of drugs, guns and cash -- and recognize a critical distinction between narco-gangs who mean us harm and economic migrants who don't.
 The administration is, helpfully, stressing the importance of sharing information and resources with Mexico. It is also acknowledging the role of the United States in Mexico's agonies. Americans, after all, are the addicts whose desperate consumption fuels the drug trade, and the gun merchants whose illegal profiteering has turned feuding cartels into bristling armies. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was right to have explicitly conceded that point this week. It is good news that our government will soon be stepping up screening for guns in trucks and train cars heading south.
 This is the kind of targeted crackdown that crime-weary officials along the border have long sought. But there is one more thing to help it succeed: Enact comprehensive immigration reform. Fight the illegal flow not just with more armed guards, but with more visas.
 For too long, the United States has suffered from a mind-set that conflates all illegal border crossers into a single criminal class -- the all-purpose alien threat. This has led it to spread scarce law-enforcement resources over 2,000 miles of dirt and mountains. The fence is more a political prop than an actual border sealant. Drugs, guns and people still get across. The hunt for violent fugitives and gang members languishes while the authorities chase after every last janitor and farm worker. 
 Most perversely, the lack of an honest path to jobs in the north dovetails with the business plans of narco-gangs. Many have shifted to human smuggling, easily exploiting frightened immigrants as silent -- and highly lucrative -- contraband.
 The tough-smart strategy, which the Obama administration seems willing to pursue, combines aggressive enforcement against criminals with opportunities for legal status, even citizenship, for economic migrants -- the people who would gladly line up to enter lawfully, if such a line existed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ARMIES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FARM LABOR (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); CARTELS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JANET NAPOLITANO (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1145 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: For Obama and Banks, a Little Unity

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Louise Story contributed reporting from New York and Jeff Zeleny from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a bit of political stagecraft designed to quiet the public's anger toward Wall Street, President Obama summoned the heads of some of the nation's largest financial institutions to the White House on Friday and urged them to accept responsibility for their industry's excesses. 
 The 13 chief executives emerged from the 90-minute meeting pledging to cooperate with the administration's efforts to shore up the banking industry and the broader economy. On a bright day with the cherry blossoms in bloom, administration officials and the bankers presented a unified message to the nation: We're all in this together. 
 Indeed, the gathering was carefully choreographed by the White House, which had asked the banks on Thursday to provide broad, public endorsements of the administration's financial recovery program, according to bank officials. And so, with the White House in the backdrop, one smiling executive after another offered his support for the president's efforts in several television interviews coordinated by the administration. 
 ''I'm of the feeling that we're all in this together,'' said Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, shortly after leaving the White House. 
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, used the same phrase to characterize the president's message: ''Everybody has to pitch in,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''We're all in this together.''
 But behind the scenes, administration officials and the bankers spent considerable time addressing the more charged issue of executive pay. Both sides acknowledged the urgent need to defuse Americans' anger with the industry, particularly if the White House is to gain more public support for its recovery program. The concern is that the anger, brought on in part by millions of dollars in bonuses paid by companies like the American International Group that have received government rescues, could threaten plans to stabilize the economy and the financial industry. 
 Sitting at the center of a round table in the state dining room, Mr. Obama spoke firmly about how there had been a ''cultural shift'' regarding executive bonuses and Wall Street pay. He said that Americans had a right to be angry. ''The anger is real,'' the president said, according to people who attended the meeting. ''The industry needs to show that they get it on the compensation issue.'' 
 ''Excess is out of fashion,'' Mr. Obama added, noting that pay must be linked to performance.
 The bankers nodded, but made no firm commitments. Mr. Obama did not provide any assurances to the group, according to several executives in attendance, but urged them to ''help me help you.''
 Solidarity was also elusive on the administration's plan to mend the financial system by purging banks of toxic assets. After the meeting, Mr. Pandit and other chief executives said that they were upbeat about the direction of the White House plan for private-public investments in the banks, but they made no commitment to using it. 
 During the meeting, the president called on the executives one by one, starting with Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, and asked them to offer their views on their banks and the broader industry. The topics included regulatory reform, mortgage refinancing, the ''stress tests'' that federal regulators are now applying to large banks, and the proposed program to buy their troubled assets. The executives emphasized that their banks were making loans, despite critics who say they are not. 
 At least two bank executives -- Lloyd C. Blankfein of Goldman Sachs and Kenneth I. Chenault of American Express -- asked the president to provide a pathway for them to pay back the taxpayer money that their companies have received. They stopped short of asking to do so immediately. Repaying the money with interest to the government, they and others argued, would send a positive signal about the health of the industry. 
 Mr. Obama acknowledged that repaying the money could be positive, but said that it needed to be done in a way that did not undermine lending.
 Richard K. Davis, the chief executive of U.S. Bancorp, said that he told the president that he believed the industry recognized the outrage over excessive compensation and would work to change the dialogue. 
 ''We all believe enough in our own importance, but we also believe that we are the single biggest catalyst for recovery,'' Mr. Davis recalled telling the president. 
 Mr. Dimon also struck a conciliatory tone, acknowledging that the banking industry made mistakes with overzealous lending and lax standards. 
 During the meeting, Mr. Pandit of Citigroup stressed the need for consistent rules as the administration pursued its agenda. 
 Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, and John Stumpf, the head of Wells Fargo, told the president that there were positive signs that the mortgage refinance business was improving. 
 And Robert P. Kelly, the head of Bank of New York Mellon, said he used the meeting to stress the need to modernize what he characterized as an antiquated regulatory system. ''I suspect most of us felt that way,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive, center, and other bank executives met with President Obama at the White House to plan a strategy for strengthening the economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); BONUS PAY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CHOREOGRAPHY (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KENNETH D LEWIS (58%); VIKRAM PANDIT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1146 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMINST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: How To Train A Governor

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
This week, a survey taken by Siena College's Research Institute found that Gov. David Paterson of New York had a positive job-approval rating of 19 percent.
 That's amazing. As George Bush has demonstrated, you can pretty much destroy an entire country and more than a quarter of the public will still insist you did an O.K. job. 
 Even more impressive was the fact that Paterson got a 51 percent positive performance rating in a Siena poll just eight weeks ago, then went careening downward in a trajectory that's been reflected by other public opinion surveys. On the plus side, he's now got a rejoinder for critics who claim he can't accomplish anything quickly. 
 The most remarkable thing of all is that while Paterson certainly did mess up on that Caroline Kennedy-Senate thing, he achieved this political free fall without help from any big personal scandal. In a state capital where anybody who is anybody is under indictment, he managed to completely alienate the public just by being terrible at his job.
 Who knew people were paying that much attention?
 Old-timers in Albany say this is the worst legislative session they have ever seen, which is like a prisoner on a chain gang saying he really hates Mondays. Still, things are a mess. Paterson's aides come and go, his commitments ebb and flow. He hasn't been able to rescue the downstate mass transit system, and the budget is being put together in darkened rooms by people you would not trust to do your mortgage closing.
 Meanwhile, the 32 Democrats who control the State Senate by one vote have discovered that a party with a one-vote majority is exactly as good as its weakest, dumbest and most venal member. This in a group where one guy is about to stand trial for beating up his girlfriend and several others give the impression of being willing to trade their vote for a television someone handed them from the back of a stolen truck.
 There are lots of reasons for all this chaos, one of course, being overall economic collapse. But another offers, as we like to say, some larger lessons.
 New York has always been a place where legislative leaders held their power very close. Committees don't really function, especially in the Senate. The rank-and-file are rather superfluous and the minority party has no reason for existence whatsoever. Truly, they could send up a bunch of ferrets wearing politician masks to sit in their seats and it would be absolutely the same. 
 Until 2008, Democrats were the perpetual minority party in the Senate. And what kind of people do you think run for a job that involves collecting a paycheck and staring at the ceiling? A handful of sterling characters bent on change and a large bunch of slugs who spend their entire legislative careers trying to raise enough money to build a new softball field or a Cucumber Museum back in the home district.
 Last year, miracle of miracles, the Democrats won control. Now reformers -- we are counting here on one hand -- are engaged in a struggle that bears a remarkable resemblance to nation-building in Afghanistan. Committees are being tutored in how to write actual reports and the other day, to everyone's great excitement, a committee chair actually held a public hearing during which people were allowed to express negative sentiments.
 Meanwhile, of course, the economy is falling apart, the New York City subway system is reeling, teachers are facing layoffs. It is not the best possible time for on-the-job training.
 There's a moral in there somewhere. Right now in Washington, a great many people would love to lock the Republicans in a closet and keep them there until they promise to behave or hell freezes over. The Democrats are being restrained by their innate belief in the democratic process and the fact that they can't figure out how to get away with it.
 But maybe the lesson of Albany is that it's just as well they can't. Keeping the minority so weak it atrophies isn't really good for anybody. Look at David Paterson. He was first elected to the State Senate in 1985 -- the same year Mike Tyson went to Albany to score a knockout in his debut as a professional fighter. Paterson is an intelligent guy, but the only way you could have a worse preparation for being governor than 20-plus years in the New York Senate minority would be to spend your entire adult life entombed in a catacomb.
 The good-government mantra about open process, public hearings, transparent committees, etc., has a point beyond civic virtue. The minority party you're emasculating today may be the majority tomorrow, and it's better they not be totally unhousebroken. Particularly if there's any chance your hero-prosecutor chief executive will have to resign in disgrace after getting caught making dates with a hooker. 
 Really, the way things are going, it's always better to be prepared. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); BUDGETS (72%); INDICTMENTS (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); SCANDALS (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1147 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: More Aid for Automakers, but Patience Wears

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Bill Vlasic reported from Detroit and Sheryl Gay Stolberg from Washington.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Obama administration will probably extend more short-term aid to General Motors and Chrysler on Monday, but will impose a strict deadline for bondholders and union workers to make concessions that would help the ailing automakers become viable businesses and avert bankruptcy.
 President Obama's auto task force is expected to say that despite its recommendation of more federal assistance for G.M. and Chrysler, bankruptcy could still be a possibility for either company, according to people close to the discussions. 
 The task force was in its final stages Friday of determining how to keep the two Detroit companies afloat. Meanwhile, the automakers were negotiating retiree health care costs with the United Automobile Workers union, and their debt burden with bondholders and lenders.
 But both immediate and longer-term help will be tied to completing the restructurings that G.M. and Chrysler began after receiving $17.4 billion in federal loans.
 The administration is expected to set a short deadline -- weeks rather than months -- to compel the automakers, their lenders and the U.A.W. to reach agreement.
 Both G.M. and Chrysler are close to exhausting the loans they received since December. Without more aid soon, the companies could run out of cash to run their vast operations, which employ about 140,000 workers in the United States.
 The Obama administration has concluded that both G.M. and Chrysler still require what the president on Thursday called ''drastic'' and ''painful'' actions to fix their businesses.
 G.M.'s request for up to $16.6 billion more in federal loans will be treated separately from Chrysler's request for an additional $5 billion, according to administration officials who asked not to be quoted because the deliberations were continuing.
 So far, neither company has satisfied the requirements of the original loan agreements with the Bush administration -- in particular, the substitution of company stock for 50 percent of the cost of funding retiree health care and reducing their unsecured debt levels by two-thirds.
 Mr. Obama, who has been meeting with his advisers in recent days to reach his decision, is planning a formal announcement on Monday at the White House.
 The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said Friday that the president would not only outline a plan to keep the companies operating in the short term, but would address long-term viability as well.
 ''How do these companies get through the global recession that sees a great decrease in demand for the product?'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''And how, when we emerge from recession to recovery, how do we have a sustainable path that makes good business decisions not just for one year but for many years?''
 Mr. Obama met twice on Thursday with Steven Rattner and Ronald Bloom, the former investment bankers who lead the auto task force, but there are still some remaining issues to be resolved before Monday's announcement, Mr. Gibbs said. Mr. Obama left Friday for Camp David, the presidential retreat, and will make the final decision on his plan there, Mr. Gibbs said. 
 The announcement on Monday will usher in a more intensive period of oversight by the government of G.M. and Chrysler, which lost a combined $38 billion in 2008, when United States vehicle sales fell to their lowest level in more than 25 years.
 The third Detroit car company, Ford Motor Company, has, so far, not sought direct federal assistance. Ford, which lost more than $14 billion last year, has repeatedly said it had enough cash to finance its own broad restructuring efforts.
 Mr. Obama and his top auto advisers have stressed that the administration would do everything in its power to prevent a sudden bankruptcy of the big automakers, which could set off cascading failures throughout the industry's extensive supply chain and dealer networks.
 ''We need to preserve a U.S. auto industry,'' the president said Thursday in a town hall event conducted over the Internet. ''We will provide them with some help.''
 But the president's task force will continue to consider a government-managed bankruptcy as a final resort for both G.M. and Chrysler, according to people familiar with the deliberations.
 The threat of bankruptcy is intended to accelerate talks between the troubled automakers and their biggest creditors.
 Under the terms of its original loans, G.M. must substitute company stock for half of the $20 billion it owes to a new health care trust for retired union workers and surviving spouses.
 G.M. also needs to reduce its $27 billion in unsecured debt by two-thirds. So far, a committee representing some bondholders has balked at an offer estimated at as low as 15 cents on the dollar value of the bonds.
 The company declined to comment Friday on the talks, except to say they were continuing, according to a G.M. spokeswoman.
 Chrysler is facing similar terms with its lenders and the union.
 People familiar with the task force discussions said the Monday announcement would set very specific targets and conditions for G.M. and Chrysler to meet separately.
 The companies are due to submit their own progress reports on the restructuring plans they initially gave the government last month.
 G.M., however, may be forced to alter its plan somewhat. The plan currently calls for the elimination of 47,000 jobs worldwide and a significant reduction in brands, models and dealerships.
 Chrysler has released one plan to exist as a stand-alone company, and an alternative one that includes joining forces with the Italian auto company Fiat.
 The task force has not ruled out supporting a Fiat alliance for Chrysler but is intent on keeping all options open for the company, including revival of previous merger talks between Chrysler and G.M. at some point.
 Administration officials have said the bailout of the automakers is at a turning point, and the task force would intensify its oversight of G.M. and Chrysler until talks with the union and bondholders reached a conclusion.
 Those officials also said the administration had no intention of nationalizing the auto companies or taking direct control of their managements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BONDS (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STEVEN RATTNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009



1148 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2438 words

HEADLINE: Surf's Up in Barbados

BYLINE: By DANIELLE PERGAMENT. 
DANIELLE PERGAMENT is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
IT was the kind of scene you'd expect to see on the north shore of Oahu or the Gold Coast of Australia: three surfers bobbing in the water as a 15-foot swell rolled in. One of the surfers paddled into it, snapped to his feet, and suddenly he was riding it -- millions of gallons of the ocean's energy barreling him forward. He turned, speeding left, flipping right, then crouched down and held the sides of his board, launching himself five feet off the crest. He flew, spinning into the air, drops of water fanning him like white lace, and landed with perfect ease on the wave as it settled back down and lapped toward shore. 
 Only this wasn't Pipe, Indo or any other famous moniker the world's nomadic surfing community bestows on its favorite pilgrimage spots. This clean, perfect, enormous wave was rolling in to a little-known surf destination -- the east coast of Barbados. And the only audience that these three surfers -- professionals from Hawaii and Florida in town to shoot a documentary for Billabong -- had was an empty, palm-tree-lined beach. 
 Tucked in the southern corner of the Lesser Antilles, Barbados is the easternmost island in the Caribbean. The island's west coast is its famous side: powdery beaches, water as clear as if it were poured from a tap, manicured estates, really manicured resorts and even more manicured golf courses. That part of the island is known as the Platinum Coast, so named for the color of its sparkling coastline and its preferred credit cards. That is the Barbados of the travel agencies and guidebooks. But it's only half the story. 
 The eastern coast of Barbados is a whole other world. Sequestered from the posh resorts by acres of sugar cane fields, thick, verdant forests, and trees full of wild monkeys, this is Barbados's rougher side. ''You could spend all your time in the west and never know the real Barbados,'' said Melanie Pitcher, a surfing instructor and owner of Barbados Surf Trips. ''The east is run by the locals, not the tourists.''
 The main town on this side is Bathsheba. Bathsheba looks as if it was once the playground of mythical creatures -- enormous limestone boulders are casually strewn in the shallows, as though giants were playing catch and paused for a break. The wind barrels in relentlessly off the Atlantic, sweeping the hillside and everything with it: the mountain face is hollowed by the warm blasts, palm trees arch backward, their seaside fronds thinned from the constant howl, waves endlessly roll in from the vast ocean. It's a coastline carved by centuries of wind blowing from thousands of miles away, great gusts of salty air like tempests heaved by the gods. 
 With isolation, of course, come characters. This is a place where people have names like Buju, Yellow and Chicken. Where you pay deference to Snake, the founding father of Barbados surfing. Where people know to avoid ''dropping in'' on Smoky's wave if he's having a bad day. 
 But the real celebrity in town is Soup Bowl, the island's biggest wave. ''When Soup Bowl is good, it gives you goose bumps,'' said Ms. Pitcher. We were sitting on the deck of the Sea Side Bar on the main (well, only) road in town, finishing a lunch of fried flying fish with rice and beans, watching the swells curl into massive walls of water. There were no surfers out, but a few people were sitting on the shoreline taking in the show. ''When it's breaking clean, people come here after work and stand on the beach to watch. It's pure magic.'' 
 On a map, Barbados looks as if it is drifting out into the open Atlantic, which is exactly what makes Soup Bowl ideal. A wave can travel nearly three thousand miles in the open ocean, undisturbed by sandbars, reefs or land, before it breaks here -- on an unlikely little island shaped like a teardrop, off the radar of all but the most devoted surfers. 
 ''I've been going for over 20 years, and I'd put Soup Bowl as one of the top three waves in the world,'' said Kelly Slater, the Tiger Woods of surfing, who recently won his ninth world championship. ''It's got a really good curve and allows all sorts of maneuvers and airs. The only problem is that there are sea urchins all over the bottom -- just don't fall and you're fine.'' 
 Aquatic life here isn't just for world champions, professional athletes and people who claim they could surf before they could walk. Much of the eastern and southern coasts already have the trappings of a laidback surfer town -- makeshift beer bars, street food vendors selling fried fish, and cheap guesthouses with blue painted walls -- that are so appealing to people who prefer to watch surfing than wax up a board. But, as the locals will remind you again and again: What makes Barbados unique is that there is a wave for everyone. 
 ''Anyone can surf Barbados, and I mean anyone,'' said Zed Layson, owner of Zed's Surfing Adventures, one of the bigger surf schools on the island. (Bigger is a relative term -- Mr. Layson has one employee, another surfing instructor named Junior.) Mr. Layson, who probably has never been called ''Mr. Layson'' in his life, is exactly what you'd want your surfing instructor to look like: shaggy blond hair, sunburned nose and cheeks, bright blue eyes and a lopsided, easygoing grin. He's Barbadian by way of Jeff Spicoli. ''Our smaller waves are the most consistent. You can close your eyes and point to the calendar -- any day you hit, Barbados will have great beginner and intermediate waves.'' 
 Mr. Layson is fifth-generation Bajan -- and may be one of those people who could surf before he could walk. ''We have 35 surf breaks on this island and Soup Bowl is only one of them,'' he told me over breakfast at Surfer's Point, a popular break on the southern end of the island. We were watching the morning windsurfers assemble their gear on the sand. ''We can teach anyone,'' he said. ''You know those fat Wall Streeters who can barely walk but suddenly have lots of free time and $400 million in the bank? Yes, I can even get them standing on a board by their second lesson.''
 On a blazingly sunny day, the third in a row of my visit, I made my way to Silver Sands, where the Atlantic Ocean meets the Caribbean Sea on the southern tip. The coastline alternates between carved-out bays, sheltered from the wind and perfect for surfing, and the rougher points where the wind can lift a kitesurfer 30 feet off the water. This is Brian Talma's stretch of sand. Mr. Talma, owner of deAction Beach Shop is famous in Barbados. A professional windsurfer for almost 20 years, he is also widely credited for the rise of surfing on the island, and has a habit of saying ''Action!'' in place of phrases like hello, goodbye and nice to meet you. 
 ''Action! Do you want a drink?'' Mr. Talma said. We were on the outdoor deck of his shop at the end of the day, watching a group of kitesurfers laying down the Technicolor swaths of nylon to dry in the setting sun. ''Listen,'' he continued. ''If I say Jamaica, you think reggae, right? But when I say Barbados, nothing comes to mind, and that has to change. The government has to market Barbados as an active beach culture.'' Of course, Mr. Talma is also mindful of that surfer's caveat: Popular is good; too popular is dangerous. ''More people are surfing here every day, and we're at the point right now where we have to find that balance,'' he said. 
 In the boom economy, surfers had a knack for seeking out the untouched, raw, beautiful seascapes that no one knew about. Once the surfers found them, the developers were hot on their trail, and soon someone like Ian Schrager or Philippe Starck would open shop, followed by people with high heels and lapdogs. And before you knew it, beaches from Fiji to Mexico to Costa Rica became crowded, expensive and very much discovered. 
 ''When you see bumper stickers in Oahu that say, ''Tourist, Go Home,'' that's a problem,'' said Mr. Talma. ''And that's not us. But locals have to be strong or we'll lose our culture, just like Hawaii has.'' 
 Not everyone is thrilled by the prospect of luring the masses. ''It's a tricky situation,'' said Alan Burke, owner of Burkie's Surf School. He was pulling boards out of the back of his truck, getting ready for his afternoon students -- half a dozen boys between the ages of 8 and 11 who would be arriving momentarily to practice for the island's first juniors competition the following week. ''On one hand you want people to come here and surf, and on the other hand you don't want it to be a zoo.'' 
 Mr. Burke, a former professional surfer, has traveled to every major surfing destination and knows the risks that come with geographic fame. ''Look at Soup Bowl,'' he said. ''It could be every bit as famous as the north shore of Hawaii, but do we want that? That's what's good about being a small, sheltered island. I bet people in Hawaii wish they stayed a little more sheltered.'' 
 The good thing about being relatively undiscovered is that there was no tourism bubble here to burst. ''The recession has hit the west coast,'' said Mr. Layson, who charges $80 for a two-hour lesson. ''But we haven't seen any change in the surfing world here. It's still cheap compared to other places in the world. Wait, inexpensive, not cheap. Cheap sounds like it's not quality surfing, which it is.'' Whatever you call it, Soup Bowl may be the least costly, world-class wave on the planet. 
 LATER that evening, I went to meet the three pros I'd seen surfing Soup Bowl a few days earlier. Collectively tall, lanky and cocky in a way befitting 20-something professional athletes, the three -- T. J. Barron, Spencer Sterling and Torrey Meister -- were spread out on the couches at Aqua Restaurant & Lounge, a popular restaurant with sleek decor and beautiful waitresses. Suntanned, wearing loose shorts and drained from seven straight hours of surfing, the boys poured themselves onto the furniture like amoebas. They'd been traveling the world with a film crew, shooting that Billabong surfing documentary called ''Still Filthy,'' scheduled for release this fall. 
 ''When Soup Bowl turns on, it's one of the best breaks in the world,'' Mr. Meister said. 
 ''Everyone is so nice here,'' Mr. Barron added. ''I've never surfed a place with nicer locals. In Hawaii, a lot of people will flat out tell you to leave if you're not local. I think it would be cool if this place got popular.'' 
 From his two friends, a round of groans and hazing. 
 ''Dude, how can you say that?'' Mr. Sterling said. 
 ''How can you even think it?'' Mr. Meister chided. 
 ''The whole thing about this place is that no one knows this break,'' Mr. Sterling said. ''We shouldn't even be talking about it now.'' 
 He paused -- then a light bulb flickered. ''We should tell people it was all choppy and nasty. Seriously.''
 Before I left Barbados to return to my landlocked life, I went back to Bathsheba one more time. Soup Bowl was even bigger that day. Two surfers stood on the beach, contemplating the break -- and, very likely, their chances of surviving it. 
 ''It's going 20 feet today,'' said the lifeguard, a tall, sinewy man everyone calls Chicken. ''I hope those guys don't go in. Usually I have to rescue tourists who think they know what they're doing.'' 
 The surfers looked ready to test their luck -- they were fastening the surfboard leashes around their ankles. Chicken snapped his tongue off the roof of his mouth. ''Leashes don't mean anything to Soup Bowl,'' he said, shaking his head. ''If you made a board of pure steel, Soup Bowl could bend it. This swell comes clear across the ocean with nothing stopping it. It can chew you up or it can be sweet and perfect and the most beautiful wave in the world. It's like a woman -- it all depends on her mood.'' 
 IF YOU GO
 THE BASICS
 American Airlines has nonstop flights from Kennedy Airport in New York to Grantley Adams International Airport in Seawell, Christ Church, on the south side of Barbados, about a 25-minute drive from the surfbeaches near Bathsheba. Fares for travel in April start at about $480, according to a recent Web search. You'll need a car to get around Barbados, and most major rental companies have offices off-site but will deliver a rental car to the airport upon your arrival.
 WHERE TO STAY
 On the south side of the island, the most affordable accommodations are at Surfer's Point, like the rooms at Ocean Spray Apartments (Inch Marlow, Christ Church; 246-428-5426; www.oceansprayapts.com), which are simple and modest but right on the water. Doubles start at $80 (U.S. dollars are accepted everywhere on the island). 
 Right next door is Surfer's Point Guest House (Inch Marlow, Christ Church; 246-428-7873; www.surferspointbarbados.com), which comes with lounge chairs, great views and the island's only in-house surf shop. Doubles start at $80. 
 The best place to stay in Bathsheba is the lovely Sea-U Guest House (Tent Bay, Bathsheba, St. Joseph; 246-433-9450; www.seaubarbados.com) with its mosquito nets, whitewashed walls, ceiling fans and a charming German proprietress. Doubles start at $109.
 WHERE TO EAT AND DRINK 
 Sea Side Bar (Bathsheba, 246-433-9645) is a low-key surfside cafe specializing in fried fish, cold beer and karaoke Sundays. Grab one of the tables on the outdoor deck -- inside, it can get noisy when a good cricket match is on TV. Lunch for two, about $20.
 Aqua Restaurant & Lounge (Hastings Main Road, Christ Church; 246-420-2995; www.aquabarbados.com) feels like a South Beach transplant -- views of the water, lots of glass walls and everything, from the entrance to the bar, is lighted from underneath. The menu is a collection of Asian-inspired seafood and local chicken and meat dishes, but its raison d'etre is the bar. Try the Bajan Pride -- we don't know what's in it, but after a couple, you'll be feeling duly patriotic. Dinner for two, about $130.
 Cafe Luna (Little Arches Hotel, Enterprise Beach Road, Christ Church; 246-428-6172) might be the best meal you can have on the island. Sit on the terrace surrounded by flickering candlelight (romance galore) and order grilled peppers stuffed with a pine nut and goat cheese gratin, followed by grilled scallops tossed in a brandy Dijon and mushroom sauce. Dinner for two, about $100.
 SURFING LESSONS 
 The three main surf schools in Barbados are Zed's Surfing Adventures (Surfer's Point, Inch Marlow, Christ Church; www.barbadossurf.com; 246-428-7873), Burkie's Surf School (108 Plover Court, Long Beach, Christ Church; 246-230-2456; www.surfbarbados.net) and Barbados Surf Trips (www.surfbarbados.com; 246-262-1099). All offer private lessons and teach all levels. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mushroom Rock in Bathsheba, on the east coast of Barbados. Ocean swells travel for thousands of miles before curling into massive walls of water and breaking on the shore nearby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER /THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR1)
ABOVE: Snake, one of the originators of surfing in Barbados, leads the way out to Soup Bowl. Snake's dog surveys the scene. Below Boards outside the office of Zed's Surfing Adventures.
BELOW LEFT: Melanie Pitcher, owner of Barbados Surf Trips, catches a wave.
BELOW CENTRAL: Locals at the Sea Side bar in Bathsheba.
 BELOW RIGHT: Snake on the beach in Bathsheba. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.TR6 and 7) MAP: Barbados (pg.TR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURFING (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BEACHES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); OCEANS (71%); GOLF (67%); MOUNTAINS (62%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (93%); QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) BARBADOS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1149 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Remaking Atlantic City: A Progress Report

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
ON a cloudy Friday afternoon last month, I boarded a train in New York and traveled south in search of the chic Atlantic City. This is like saying you are looking for the budget Beverly Hills or the understated Miami Beach. 
 For years, Atlantic City, that resort town on the Jersey Shore, has been a seedy gambling destination catering to day trippers. Monte Carlo it isn't.
 But Atlantic City has spent the past few years trying to reinvent itself as an upscale destination, a Las Vegas East. 
 It started with the Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa, which became the city's first new casino in over a decade when it opened in 2003. More recently, luxury spas have opened; so has a high-end retail district connected to Caesars Atlantic City. And the city's growing culinary scene -- Wolfgang Puck and Stephen Starr have restaurants there -- led to Atlantic City's first Restaurant Week, earlier this month. 
 The latest development is the Atlantic City Express Service, a direct-service train from Manhattan's Pennsylvania Station that began in February. Operated by New Jersey Transit, the train makes nine round trips over the course of the weekend. It was designed to create ''easy access to Atlantic City,'' according to Joe Domenico, senior vice president of Caesars Atlantic City, which, along with the Borgata and Harrah's Resort Atlantic City, financed the $19.5 million project.
 Despite the Great Recession, the timing for this new service could be a boon to Atlantic City as more East Coasters forgo far-off travel and may take cheaper vacations on the Jersey Shore. 
 Since I was seeking the elegant side of the city, I decided to travel first class, which was $75 each way (coach was $50) and provided more leg room and seat-side service for snacks and drinks. I sat behind two mustached men: Oscar Pineda of Brooklyn and Anthony Latte Jr. of the Bronx; they make frequent gambling forays to Atlantic City. The new train was a trade up from the horrors of the bus, they said. 
 ''The noise alone,'' said Mr. Latte, an office-cleaning crew supervisor, referring to the bus service with a reputation for transporting rowdy partygoers. The train passengers were quiet during the smooth two-and-a-half-hour trip. 
 Jeff Vasser, executive director of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority, said that the city's curb appeal has greatly improved in recent years. ''People who remembered an old, burned-out housing project that greeted you when you drove in now see this complex,'' he said, referring to the Walk, an eight-block district of retail and dining outlets. 
 But as my taxi drove through town, past concrete-and-neon monoliths like Trump Taj Mahal, there were ample signs of the old Atlantic City -- run-down motels, storefronts advertising ''Cash for Gold,'' row houses pinched in tight. Parts of the city still felt like a derelict '70s streetscape. 
 The cabdriver, a resident of more than 20 years, apparently missed the bulletin about the new, upscale Atlantic City. On the way to the hotel, he made a point of showing me an all-nude strip club and discount liquor stores. 
 I checked into the Chelsea, one of two newish hotels without on-site gambling -- perhaps a glimpse into the city's future. The other hotel is the Water Club, which adjoins the Borgata. But the Water Club's rate of roughly $700 for two nights seemed extravagant, so I chose the Chelsea ($450 for the weekend). Built from the relics of a Howard Johnson and a Holiday Inn, the Chelsea is a boutique-style hotel with a pool deck, two in-house restaurants and nightclubs overseen by the group that runs the Beatrice Inn, an exclusive Manhattan hot spot favored by celebrities.
 The Chelsea felt unpretentious despite its high-style aspirations, probably because a flagging economy tends to make hoteliers very welcoming, but also because blue-collar South Jersey eschews that sort of artifice. 
 I found this in evidence that night at Chef Vola's, an Italian restaurant that has operated for years under a cloud of mystery and eccentricity. It does not publish its number (though the number can be found online on many restaurant-review sites), the staff doesn't care much for phones anyway, and finding the place is another complication; it's in a nondescript house on a side street. 
 With a bit of help from Mr. Vasser, I scored a reservation for 9 p.m. When I arrived the basement dining room was crowded and practically vibrating from the cacophony of chatter. I came alone, but the family next to me -- the Stefanaccis of Toms River, N.J. -- kindly invited me to join them. A daughter, Sam, was celebrating her 21st birthday; another daughter, Jenn, was coincidentally an off-duty waitress at the restaurant. She helped deconstruct the lengthy list of specials (more than 15 items) our waiter had rattled off from memory. 
 After a dinner of pasta Bolognese, it was off to the Borgata, where the sisters and their brother, Pat, explained the basics of craps. 
 On trips to Las Vegas, I have always been an unlucky gambler. The change of setting did not change my luck -- within approximately 10 seconds I lost $50 and felt mildly nauseated. 
 The Stefanacci siblings finished ahead of the house and decided to check out the scene at mur.mur, a nightclub adjoining the casino, where popular D.J.'s spin. (DJ AM was spinning the following night.) Several hours and whiskeys later, I left them at the Borgata and hailed a cab back to the hotel. 
 The next night, a friend from college, John Burkhimer, or Burk, as I have called him for years, joined me. He lives an easy distance from Atlantic City in Bucks County, Pa., but has never spent the night -- the city's down-at-the-heels reputation has kept him away.
 We began the evening at Chelsea Prime, the Stephen Starr steakhouse on the Chelsea's fifth floor, where our table overlooked the ocean (and, less grandly, a Day's Inn sign). Here, we couldn't tell if the extra-attentive service was house policy or if the half-empty restaurant was grateful for people willing to spend $60 a head in a struggling economy. 
 After dinner, we headed over to the Game Room, a denlike space with a fireplace on the same floor as the restaurant. Old photos on the walls showed Atlantic City's history, one that rivals Vegas in mid-century cool. The city was home to Skinny D'Amato's 500 Club, where Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis teamed up, and it's where Frank Sinatra gave his last nightclub-casino performances, in 1994, at the Sands. 
 Later that night, we went to the Pool at Harrah's, a colossal glass-enclosed swimming pool area that turns into a club on weekends. Several weeks later, I'm still processing the sensory experience of a Saturday night there. The domed space was swarming with revelers clad in Lycra, suspiciously tanned for the month of February. My ears protested against the thudding techno, my nose twitched from chlorine vapors, and my eyes were mesmerized by the flesh parade. I would have paid double the $35 cover for the experience -- yet, oddly, I never want to do it again. 
 The return schedule of the train leaves something to be desired, as I discovered the next day. The train departs at either 10:40 a.m. (a time that barely allows for breakfast) or 7:20 p.m. (also unappealing because it means getting home late). Concerned about rousing myself after a late night, I chose the later departure, which left a day to fill. We checked out the stores along the Walk, but shopping these days feels profligate. Next we had lunch at Izakaya, the chef Michael Schulson's upscale take on Japanese pub grub in the Borgata. Our waiter deemed every dish ''outrageous,'' which we found amusing, if not always accurate. 
 His avid demeanor was anapt metaphor for Atlantic City's upscaling. The city delivers in only fits and spurts, but the enthusiasm is there, and someday the rest may follow. 
 CIVIC AMBITION
 GETTING THERE
 The Atlantic City Express Train makes nine round trips over the course of a weekend and runs between Pennsylvania Station in Manahattan and Atlantic City. Tickets start at $39 for coach and $64 for first class each way (though they can vary according to when you book) and can be purchased at www.amtrak.com.
 WHERE TO STAY
 The Chelsea (111 South Chelsea Avenue; 800-548-3030; www.thechelsea-ac.com) has modern interiors; some rooms have ocean views. Midweek doubles start at $239; $299 on weekends. 
 The Water Club (1 Renaissance Way; 609-317-8888; www.thewaterclubhotel.com) is on the bay side of Atlantic City. Weekend doubles rates start at $259 on Fridays and $489 on Saturdays. 
 WHERE TO EAT
 Chelsea Prime (fifth floor of the Chelsea Hotel; 609-428-4545) has ocean views. Chef Vola's (111 South Albion Place; 609-345-2022) does not have a sign on its facade, just a porch light. Izakaya (1 Borgata Way, at the Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa; 609-317-1000) is heavy on appetizers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shooting pool at the Chelsea in Atlantic City, N.J. The city's goal is to become an East Coast Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MECEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Atlantic City, New Jersey 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); RETAILERS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%)

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG PUCK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1150 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar, the World Tour

BYLINE: By JIM OWENS. 
As told to Amy Zipkin.

 BODY:
I WAS the first of my family to go to college and had relatively low expectations. I entered the general engineering program at North Carolina State University and went from that into textile engineering. Until my junior year, I was more social than academic. 
 I married, had a son and reassessed my priorities. After several years with a 4.0 average, I was offered a full-time fellowship to earn a master's in textile technology. I took economics courses and was offered a position in the Ph.D. program. It was two years of rigorous academics, then qualifying exams. Only half of us passed. 
 When I graduated, I had an interview with a textile company that thought a Ph.D. was a waste of time. Caterpillar, though it wasn't a textile company, actually wanted the degree. I joined for $18,000 a year in 1972. 
 Within three years, I was promoted to chief economist, with responsibility for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. By then, I had an 8-year-old and a 2-year-old. I joined a community of 200 to 300 Caterpillar ex-pats in Geneva. I was a Cub Scout leader, coached baseball and became commissioner of the local Little League. I was welcoming but insisted that parents stay involved; they could not just drop off their kids and leave.
 After four years, my wife and I separated and she moved to London. I kept custody of the kids, and after a year I moved back to Illinois. Within a few years, I was a division manager of product source planning and happily remarried, and I got the opportunity to move to a suburb of Jakarta, Indonesia, as a managing director of a manufacturing plant. By that time, my oldest son was in college; my younger son was just starting high school. I also had a daughter who was 7. To convince my family, I developed a slide show of the lifestyle we would have there, including pictures of homes with pools in the backyard. 
 After three years, just as my son was getting ready for his senior year of high school, I got a call from Caterpillar to become president of the gas turbine division in San Diego. We debated letting my son live with another family while he finished school. He had been president of the student body. We thought it would be a harder move for him but he never asked to stay. 
 Three years later, I got a call from the vice chairman in the executive office about coming back to Peoria to be chief financial officer. My first reaction was, no way. About a week later, I was in Peoria for a meeting, seated next to the chairman. He asked, ''About ready to come home?'' 
 I asked, ''Is this something we can discuss?'' 
 He said: ''It's not what you enjoy doing. It's what the company needs you to do.'' I went home and told my wife that returning to Peoria was a condition of employment. 
 I was running my own show and didn't want to leave. I took a huge loss on my house in San Diego. I asked the chairman, ''If it doesn't work out, can I have another business unit to run?'' He asked, ''Don't you have the confidence to get this one right?'' After 18 months, I was promoted to the executive office as group president with responsibilities for the Asia-Pacific theater and all financial and administrative divisions. 
 In 1998, I was considered for C.E.O. but was passed over. A lot of headhunters told me that if I wanted to be a C.E.O., I had better leave. I thought I had one more shot. I thought that if the next time didn't work out, I'd teach for a few years and go off into the sunset. 
 Five years ago, three of us in the executive office were being considered for C.E.O. When I got the job, I walked around in the middle of the night, letting the new responsibilities sink in. 
 The last few months of layoffs have been very difficult. I've lost more sleep over that than anything. It's really tough when individuals are involved, but I have to think about the long-term health of the enterprise. I can't control the global economy. It's much more fun running a growing company. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: JIM OWENS: Chief executive, Caterpillar, Peoria, Ill. AGE 63 HOMETOWN Elizabeth City, N.C. HEROES Nelson Mandela and Milton Friedman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TEXTILES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (71%); BASEBALL (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: JAMES W OWENS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (72%); SWITZERLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1151 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Why Are These Renters Smiling?

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
WHEN Whitney Pettyjohn and her 19-year-old sister, Chelsey, moved to Brooklyn last August, the best deal they could find in their price range was a two-bedroom in Bushwick with unreliable heat, nine blocks from the Morgan Avenue stop on the L train. It cost $1,700 per month. 
 When they looked again this year, they found a very different market. Four weeks ago, they moved two stops closer to Manhattan, into an apartment with more character and more storage for the exact same price.
 ''We're one block from the subway,'' Ms. Pettyjohn, 24, said. ''It's like living in a dream!'' 
 Rents are down throughout New York. According to the February Manhattan Rental Market Report produced by the Real Estate Group, a New York brokerage firm, rents in the borough have fallen ''across the board.''
 The biggest drop was in studio apartments in doorman buildings, which have fallen 8.33 percent from the same time last year.
 Many people who signed leases in the bubble years are paying much more in rent than what their apartments would get today. So when their leases expire, some New Yorkers are trading up for better deals, finding comparable places for less money or nicer apartments that do not come with a big rent increase.
 ''No one's willing to pay more now, because there's always another deal next door or down the block,'' said Georgia Kaporis, an associate broker at Citi Habitats. ''They're just upgrading for less.''
 Erika Allen, for example, moved earlier this month from a first-floor studio in the East Village between Avenues B and C. Only through a remarkable New York-style exercise in stacking belongings and maximizing space did Ms. Allen, 21, a journalism student, manage to share the place with her boyfriend, Clark Hassler, 25, a professional skateboarder. (Picture shoe storage above the refrigerator.) They were paying $1,885.
 For $15 more a month, the couple now have a one-bedroom five blocks from their old apartment that is closer to the subway, has a working fireplace and, perhaps most important, more privacy.
 ''I was looking forward to having a bedroom door,'' Ms. Allen said. ''I love to have people over, but it's hard when you have to have them sit on your bed. It's just crazy the things you get used to.''
 Though more apartments are becoming more affordable as rents come down from their lofty peak, New York prices might still seem shocking to the uninitiated. 
 In February, the average rent for a one-bedroom apartment in a nondoorman building was $2,632, according to the Real Estate Group. It was $3,395 for a one-bedroom in a doorman building.
 ''Probably somebody who's relocating would still be surprised today: 'This is the size of apartment I get for this price?' '' said Caroline Bass, an associate broker with Citi Habitats. ''But New Yorkers think this is great right now. Maybe you appreciate it more if you spend more time here.''
 Another bonus for New Yorkers concerns the broker fee, which has usually been paid by the renter and can add 15 percent of a year's rent to the initial cost of leasing an apartment. These days, as attracting good tenants has become more difficult, owners have started paying the broker fees themselves.
 According to Halstead Properties, out of 4,230 open and exclusive listings for apartments between Feb. 15 and March 15, 30 percent offered owner payment of the broker fee. Over the same period in 2008, only 8 percent of Halstead's apartments offered that incentive.
 A big jump, but it still leaves the majority of apartments requiring tenants to pay the fee.
 ''There's so much media attention paid to no fee, free rent, rental prices coming down, that now everybody has an image that everything is a no fee,'' Ms. Bass added. ''But it's not true.''
 Liz Sterling, a client and friend of Ms. Bass, stepped up to a larger, less expensive apartment in a neighborhood she prefers, but to do so she had to pay a broker fee. It was, she said, worth it.
 ''I did not think I could get an apartment as nice as I did,'' she said. 
 When she moved into a studio apartment in Midtown last year, $1,800 was the best deal she could find. ''It was the biggest place I looked at that I could afford,'' she said. 
 ''I wanted to live on the Lower East Side, but I couldn't find any place that I could afford,'' she said. ''I figured if I couldn't live in a neighborhood I really wanted to, I'd at least live someplace convenient.''
 From her Midtown studio, Ms. Sterling, 28, could walk to work at Christie's, where she is a specialist in the American paintings department, and to Hunter College, where she is studying for a master's degree in art history.
 After moving in, however, she discovered the apartment had some quirks, including little sunlight, the smell of greasy meat from the restaurant below (Ms. Sterling does not eat meat) and an acupuncture parlor down the hall that stayed open very, very late and served a male clientele. 
 So toward the end of her lease, she began looking elsewhere. When she saw how far rents had fallen, she asked her landlord to drop hers to $1,650 per month. But, she said, ''they wouldn't lower my rent. So I moved.''
 She looked at some 25 apartments and finally settled on a large one-bedroom in just the location she'd hoped for, the Lower East Side. ''It's exactly where I wanted to be,'' Ms. Sterling said. 
 According to her broker, Ms. Bass of Citi Habitats, the asking price was $2,400 a month for the apartment. It sat vacant for weeks and the building had several other vacancies to fill, so the landlord was amenable to lowering the price drastically -- and throwing in a month of free rent. Ms. Sterling signed a two-year lease for $1,700 per month -- $100 less than for the studio that smelled of hamburgers. She moved in this month.
 Seven hundred dollars less than the asking price is a striking drop. But Marc Lewis, the president of Century 21 New York, said a lot of surprising things are happening in the rental market right now.
 One new experience for Mr. Lewis is being told by landlords that they will accept tenants with bad -- even very bad -- credit. 
 ''Imagine that, saying, 'I'll take anyone,' '' Mr. Lewis exclaimed. ''I've never seen that in 36 years.''
 Roberta Axelrod, the director of residential sales and rentals at Time Equities, a real estate developer and management company, says that from the owner's perspective, the important thing is to keep apartments filled.
 ''Look, we would rather rent the apartments for more than for less if we can,'' she said. But, she added, she believes that the rental market will strengthen again in the future. ''I wouldn't panic,'' she said.
 With great deals available, some renters may be tempted to break their leases. But, said Dov Treiman, a lawyer and the editor of The Housing Court Reporter, they probably won't have much luck. Landlords are not obligated to let tenants out of a lease.
 It's impossible to know when rents will stop falling. Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Terra Holdings, which owns Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens, said there are two key indicators to watch: the for-sale market and the job market.
 ''When do prices reach the point when people start buying again, or when does the confidence return?'' he said. ''Also look at hiring, that's one of the more direct links to the rental market.''
 Rents, he said, are unlikely to rise until jobs start coming back, and the Independent Budget Office of New York does not expect the city to add jobs again until 2011.
 Dire economic projections like that, of course, make people nervous.
 Kiley Bates, 34, a freelance fashion stylist and event producer, and her boyfriend, Patrick Brennan, 28, an editor at Scholastic, decided that in this economy saving money was paramount.
 ''I'm a freelancer, and I was getting a little worried about work,'' Ms. Bates said. So even though she and Mr. Brennan liked the spacious apartment they shared on the border of Park Slope and Gowanus, they realized they could be paying less than $2,350 a month.
 ''At first I was like, 'what if we found a place that was $2,000 a month -- that'd be amazing!' '' Ms. Bates said. ''But then we saw that there were places that were even cheaper.''
 The apartment they moved to this month was another one-bedroom, slightly smaller than their old place, near the Grand Street stop on the L train in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for $1,775.
 Even New Yorkers who feel secure in their jobs are moving to save money.
 Elizabeth McKeveny, who works in academic fund-raising, and her boyfriend, Sean Hamel, who works in public relations, were paying $2,800 for a one-bedroom on the Upper West Side.
 ''It was a good building, good people,'' Mr. Hamel said. ''We just wanted to find something cheaper.''
 Both 27, they moved to a one-bedroom in Midtown last month, in a prewar building with high ceilings and hardwood floors, for which they pay $2,000 per month.
 ''It definitely felt like things were more, quote-unquote, negotiable, in terms of rent and broker fees,'' Mr. Hamel said, comparing their apartment hunt this year with their search last year. 
 ''Prices are still coming down in virtually every sector,'' said Daniel Baum, the chief operating officer of the Real Estate Group. ''There's a general theme out there. It's called 'Let's make a deal.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SAME PRICE, MORE CHARACTER: Whitney Pettyjohn in the apartment where she recently moved with her sister. It has more storage and is in a more convenient neighborhood than her old one, top left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AXEL OBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MORE SPACE AND A FIREPLACE, TOO: For $15 more a month, Erika Allen and Clark Hassler were able to go from a studio to a one-bedroom, which means no more shoes over the refrigerator. Ms. Allen, left, packing to move. ((PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DANNY BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
TRADERS: Liz Sterling, above, in her new apartment, which is larger, less expensive, better situated and better smelling than her old place, right. Left, Kiley Bates and Patrick Brennan traded a $2,350 monthly rent for a slightly smaller apartment, below, theirs for $1,775. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIE DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); SKATEBOARDING (68%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1152 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Now the Long Run Looks Riskier, Too

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CAN investors count on the stock market to produce handsome long-term returns?
 The conventional answer has been, emphatically, yes. After all, despite downturns like the one we've endured recently, stocks over periods of 30 or more years have almost always outperformed other asset classes. And numerous studies have found that the stock market's long-term returns have tended to fall within a surprisingly narrow range.
 But those studies were based on the stock market's past performance, which, famously, provides no guarantee of future performance. New research, using different statistical techniques aimed at capturing the uncertainty of future returns, suggests that the market may be much riskier than many investors have understood. 
 The new study, which began circulating last month as a working paper, is titled ''Are Stocks Really Less Volatile in the Long Run?'' Its authors are Lubos Pastor, a finance professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, and Robert F. Stambaugh, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. A copy is at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1136847.
 The professors don't disagree that, historically, the stock market's returns over various 30-year periods have been surprisingly consistent. Periods of particularly good returns have been followed by subpar ones, and vice versa -- a process that statisticians call reversion to the mean. Prof. Jeremy Siegel, also of Wharton, and the author of ''Stocks for the Long Run,'' is often credited with demonstrating that mean reversion has been at work in the American stock market since 1802.
 In an interview, Professor Stambaugh said that while Professor Siegel's research shows that mean reversion is powerful, it is hardly the only force affecting the stock market's long-term returns. Because estimates of those other forces are imprecise, Professor Stambaugh said, uncertainty about market fluctuations increases with the holding period -- the opposite of what happens because of mean reversion.
 One example of such a force, Professor Stambaugh said, is global warming. Its impact on the economy over the next 12 months is likely to be quite small, he said. But expand the horizon to the next several decades, and the possible effects of global warming range from negligible to catastrophic.
 It is one thing to acknowledge the existence of uncertainty, but quite another to measure its influence on long-term market volatility. To do that, Professors Pastor and Stambaugh rely on a statistical approach pioneered by the Rev. Thomas Bayes, an 18th-century English mathematician. Bayesian analysis is often used to assess the uncertainty of future outcomes, based on a formula for updating the probabilities of given events in light of new evidence. This approach is quite different from traditional statistical measurements of probabilities based on historical data. 
 Applying Bayesian techniques, the professors found that reversion to the mean isn't powerful enough to overcome the growing uncertainty caused by other factors as the holding period grows. Specifically, they estimated that the volatility of stock market returns at the 30-year horizon is nearly one and a half times the volatility at the one-year horizon.
 Why don't traditional measures of volatility, such as standard deviation, pick up this phenomenon? Those measures focus only on how much the stock market's shorter-term returns fluctuate around the long-term average, Professor Stambaugh says. 
 As a result, they ignore uncertainty about what the average return might itself turn out to be. For example, he said, it is possible that the standard deviation of the market's returns over the next 30 years could end up the same whether its average annual return over that period is 20 percent or zero. 
 What about Professor Siegel's finding that the stock market has produced an annual average inflation-adjusted return of close to 7 percent since 1802? In an interview, Professor Pastor emphasized that the last two centuries could easily have been less hospitable to the United States, most likely lowering the stock market's returns. An investor couldn't have known in advance that the United States would win two world wars, for example, or emerge victorious from the cold war. In any case, he said, there is no guarantee that the next two centuries will be as kind to the domestic equity market as the last two.
 IN an e-mail message, Professor Siegel acknowledged the theoretical uncertainty of forecasting stock market returns, but said it was hard to quantify it. He said the methods that Professors Pastor and Stambaugh used to measure the uncertainty were ''very much outside of the standard statistical techniques.''
 But Professor Pastor says that these methods are better suited than the standard techniques for quantifying the uncertainty faced by real-world investors. Even if Bayesian approaches have yet to become mainstream in financial research, he adds, they have become much more widely used in recent years.
 What is the investment implication of the new study? Other things being equal, Professor Stambaugh says, you would probably lower your portfolio allocation to stocks. But by how much? It's impossible to generalize, since the answer depends on your time horizon and what else is in your portfolio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); HISTORY (77%); INTERVIEWS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1153 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Manna From Heaven? No, Try Brooklyn Instead

BYLINE: By ANN FARMER

 BODY:
A truck from City Harvest pulled up on a recent weekday to a food pantry in a heavily Orthodox Jewish section of Midwood, Brooklyn. The driver stepped out and unloaded cabbages, bananas and Tropicana juice containers bearing labels with the letter ''K'' in a circle, indicating that they were kosher.
 Within minutes, the donated items were on the shelves and inside the carts of shoppers like Chana Wilner, an observant Jew wearing an ankle-length black dress and a brown wig, in keeping with Orthodox Jewish practices. Ms. Wilner was laid off from her job at a health maintenance organization last year and has yet to find another job. 
 ''This place is incredible,'' said Ms. Wilner, who is divorced and lives alone. ''People are really struggling.'' Kosher items, she said, are often more expensive than nonkosher food, making it hard for Jews who, like her, are feeling the weight of the recession.
 And with Passover, a holiday associated with a generous array of kosher dishes, starting the evening of April 8, the pressure to provide for families is even greater. That is why City Harvest, a nonprofit group that helps feed hungry New Yorkers and already provides weekly deliveries to 36 kosher food programs in the city, started a drive this month to provide kosher food for Passover. 
 Besides augmenting its supply of fresh food, City Harvest is collecting kosher canned items from schools, synagogues and other places. 
 With the economy in the doldrums, the number of impoverished Jews is growing, according to the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, a social service agency.
 ''The situation has gotten much worse since September,'' said William E. Rapfogel, the executive director of the Metropolitan Council. 
 ''We are seeing a dramatic increase in demand,'' said Rabbi Mayer Mayerfeld, who works for City Harvest and manages its kosher food program. He said the agencies that the group supplies were seeing more middle-class families, who in the past did not have a need for free food, turn up at food pantries every week. City Harvest, which provides food to 45,000 people a month through its kosher food program, anticipates that the need will rise by 20 percent this Passover. 
 At the Bnai Raphael Chesed Store and Food Pantry in Midwood, where Ms. Wilner was getting her kosher food, the number of registered families jumped to 1,500 this year from 800 in 2007. The pantry, which distributes about three million pounds of food a year, is open every day except Saturday, the Sabbath. 
 Goldie Greenberg, 66, who works as a home attendant, was filling her cart at the food pantry last Wednesday with cans of borlotti beans, spinach and hummus, which she described as a ''good nosh.'' Ms. Greenberg said she did not make enough money to afford to keep kosher. ''It's been harder this year,'' she said. ''It's been a nightmare. Everything costs so much. This saves my life. It allows us to eat good and healthy.'' 
 Rabbi Mayerfeld spends much of his time on the phone trolling for kosher food donations and handling the logistics of getting food from Point A to Point B without contaminating the kosher items. 
 ''The best bang for the buck comes from wholesalers, farmers and manufacturers,'' Rabbi Mayerfeld said. Some of them, like Tropicana, make kosher products. 
 ''Mayer is constantly looking for food,'' said Jilly Stephens, the executive director of City Harvest. ''He's very creative. He has to get a lot of food into the community.'' And the demand for food is high as Jews prepare for Passover, which commemorates the exodus of Jews from Egypt.
 Shmura, the special type of matzo often eaten during Passover, can be expensive. So are the meats, fish, fresh vegetables and fruits that are typically eaten. 
 Ms. Greenberg plans to invite at least 10 people for a Passover Seder this year, including her neighbor, whom she describes as ''someone who needs to be fed.'' The food from the pantry, she said, ''enables me to make a nice soup and nice vegetables and sweets. I don't abuse it. I just take enough. I'm a good cook anyway. Not to be conceited.'' 
 To supplement the Passover demands, Rabbi Mayerfeld is working to arrange several tractor-trailer loads of fresh food deliveries in the next few weeks to agencies that are part of City Harvest's kosher food program.
 Ms. Wilner, whose cart contained a box of potato starch in order to make kugel, a traditional potato pudding, says she will return to the food pantry a few more times before Passover. She said her parents, who were Holocaust survivors, were grateful to live in America, where they could freely observe religious requirements.
 ''As American citizens, they were so proud to be part of this great country, and to be an observant Jew as well,'' Ms. Wilner said. ''They didn't have to be in hiding for Passover.'' 
 She plans to invite her children to her home for Passover this year. ''If necessary,'' she said, ''we will make do with the basics.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Bnai Raphael Chesed Store and Food Pantry in Brooklyn, Connie Wilner, left, shops, with Goldie Greenberg and Raphael Kazan, the pantry operator, behind her. The number of families registered at the pantry jumped to 1,500 from 800 in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); PASSOVER (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FAMILY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1154 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Few Signs of Spring for Day Laborers

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Morristown 

 BODY:
 IT has been a long, cold season of waiting everywhere lately -- for jobs, for the resurrection of the housing market, for any hints of thaw across these frozen, shrinking months -- and this week on Morris Street it wasn't getting any warmer. Winter was supposed to be gone, but whatever was meant to follow hadn't arrived yet.
 The men who hail from warmer climes had their hands jammed deep in the pockets of their jeans, sweatshirt hoods pulled up over their heads like monks' cowls. Standing in their usual clusters around the train station, they measured the passing vehicles for signs that a day's work might be beckoning from inside. But none were stopping.
 Every morning here starting at about 7, the biggest overriding concern of the moment, the economic crisis, collides head on with immigration, the biggest concern of an earlier moment that is starting to seem like a long time ago. In the summer of 2007, this was the state's main battleground in the immigration wars, as police with riot gear faced angry advocates from both sides of the debate who held competing rallies on the lawn in front of Town Hall. 
 ''It's quiet now,'' Mayor Donald Cresitello said, sitting in his fourth-floor office at a table spread with plans for several redevelopment projects for new apartments and commercial space in the town where he was born 62 years ago, on the Fourth of July. ''There's no question that some people are going back to their country, and there's no question that fewer people are probably coming, because there's no work for them.''
 Winter has always been hard for those who came from elsewhere to this old courthouse town -- for George Washington, who spent two winters here with his hungry Continental Army during the Revolutionary War; and for immigrants who streamed in from Central and South America, many of them without documents, when the economy was roaring and jobs were plentiful and the old frame houses in the neighborhood around Speedwell Avenue grew crowded with new tenants. 
 Even in good times, jobs were scarce in winter, as the landscapers and contractors who did much of the street-side hiring hibernated themselves. But in bad times? Well, the first spring has arrived since the first winter after the crash, and nobody knows for sure what will happen next -- except that an already complex and emotional debate is likely to get only more so, and is not going away. 
 ''Much worse -- nothing in February or March,'' said Rigoberto, 53, who, like the other men standing near the train station one morning this week, gave only his first name and spoke in Spanish; his words were translated by Diana Mejia, a co-founder of Wind of the Sprit, a local immigrant resource center. For the last two years, he said, he had a steady job with a Florham Park construction company, but he was laid off in January. 
 ''I will wait -- there is always something,'' he said. He came to Morristown from Honduras five years ago, he said, and has no plans to return soon. ''It is always better here, even if you don't work for a long time.''
 As the men around the train station wait to see if the work will return this spring, Mr. Cresitello is waiting to see what will become of his controversial effort to have the local police join a federal program, known as 287(g), that would train them to enforce immigration laws. His first attempt sparked the dueling Town Hall rallies, and much other protest, and then stalled last year when Morris County officials would not permit the county jail to be used to hold those detained for immigration violations. 
 But in November, Mr. Cresitello signed a memorandum of understanding with Homeland Security Department officials that kept the town's application moving along. ''We asked the question, 'Well, what about this issue with the jail?' '' Mr. Cresitello said. He was told that Homeland Security would take any detainees directly, he said, and would not require use of the county jail.
 Now, though, the delay is in Washington, under a new administration. An unflattering report in January about 287(g) by the Government Accountability Office led to a hearing at the Capitol earlier this month. ''Our secretary has ordered a review of all immigration border security programs, and specifically 287(g),'' said Amy Kudwa, a Homeland Security spokeswoman. 
 Mr. Cresitello is not counting on an answer anytime soon. ''I'm not optimistic that we're ever going to get it approved,'' he said.
 And so he waits, like the 1,500 undocumented immigrants he estimates live in his town of 19,000, to see how the economic crisis will shape the next stage of the debate. ''People want to make me look like some kind of monster, but it's just not that way,'' said Mr. Cresitello, a Democrat, who was often alone among elected officials in the state in speaking so publicly about an issue so flammable that it was barely discussed in the recent presidential campaign.
 His grandfather came to Morristown in 1905; his wife's family has been here since the 18th century.
 ''I am absolutely not against immigration, because I wouldn't be here without immigration,'' he said. ''I want people to play by the rules.''
 The new rules he would like to see include what he calls a pathway to legalization: fines for those who entered the country illegally, permits so they can stay and work, and a chance to apply for citizenship, ''where you get behind the person that was ahead of you,'' he said. 
 ''You need to bring them out of the shadows,'' he said. ''They have children, and the children need to live without fear of losing their parents. We don't want that to happen. Should they have come? No, but they did. We permitted them to be here. We took advantage of the cheap labor. The country benefited economically from that labor.''
 But that labor was in little demand the other morning. Of the 60 or so men gathered near the train station, fewer than in the warmer months, maybe 10 found work. ''I was here, then I moved there, and when I came back here, they got the job there,'' Frankie said, pointing out the various spots along Morris Street where his timing had proved unlucky today. He came to Morristown from Honduras three years ago, when he was 18. ''So when I moved, I lost the opportunity to work.''
 Across the street at the train station, Domingo, 36, who arrived here from Honduras four years ago, had no luck either; he hasn't worked for two months. But like so many people in so many other places who have been waiting for their fortunes to turn, he was hopeful about what would happen when true spring replaced this false, cold one. 
 ''In April,'' he said, as men started drifting away until the next day, ''things will be getting better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAYOR: Donald Cresitello (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (87%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MAYORS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1155 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: From Hobbyist to Businessman to Worker

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY

DATELINE: SAYVILLE 

 BODY:
 LIGHT laughter flowed from the tasting room here at Loughlin Vineyards on the first weekend of spring. A scrap of lumber propped open the door, and sunlight warmed it. Inside, Barney Loughlin, the owner, sat with his back to a wood-burning stove that kept the room toasty.
 Two visitors hovered at the entrance. Mr. Loughlin, 83, quickly stood up and greeted them. 
 ''Care for a wine-tasting?'' he asked. The couple nodded and strolled in. Mr. Loughlin poured cabernet sauvignon into tiny plastic cups and finished his thought, which drew chuckles: ''If you don't like it, throw it outside. It'll kill the weeds.'' 
 Mr. Loughlin was one of many winemakers in the region welcoming the spring hatch of wine-lovers after a winter spent pruning vines, fertilizing soil and attending to quieter tasting rooms as wines from last season underwent their initial aging in storage tanks. 
 The recession has presented a challenge, winemakers said, but vineyards and wineries have countered with events to attract customers.
 The Long Island Wine Council and its partners are preparing for a barrel-tasting promotion scheduled for Saturdays in April and May. It will allow visitors to preview certain red wines and roses before they are released for sale, said Steven L. Bate, the wine council's executive director.
 In New Jersey, wineries are focusing on events for Mother's Day and a blues and wine festival on May 23 and 24 in Somerset County. Many Connecticut wineries also plan barrel-tasting events.
 In the Hudson Valley, wineries are preparing for April 18 and 19, when Pasta Primo-Vino! -- hosted by the Shawangunk Wine Trail -- will celebrate spring and bud-break by pairing newly released wines with food.
 Kerry McKillop, an events and marketing coordinator for Pindar Vineyards and Duck Walk Vineyards, both on Long Island, said early spring is a good time to visit vineyards and wineries and learn about the winemaking process because fewer customers are around.
 ''You get that one-on-one attention,'' she said. 
 Loughlin Vineyards does not have a winery but is building one on the property. The vineyard has for years hired wineries on the North Fork to make its wines. Mr. Loughlin said he hopes to produce 1,000 cases of wine from the three tons of cabernet sauvignon, merlot and chardonnay grapes harvested each year.
 One customer said he looked forward to Mr. Loughlin's wines.
 ''I've been coming out here the better part of 10 years,'' said Ron K. Bennett, 63, a factory engineer who lives in Bay Shore. He sipped a cabernet sauvignon while Mr. Loughlin prepared a case of reds, whites and blush.
 Mr. Bennett said it took him six months to find the vineyard after hearing about it. ''I figured it was tucked back here somewhere,'' he said.
 The vineyard is on a tongue of land between two branches of Browns Creek that drain Lotus Lake and Mill Pond in Suffolk County. The surrounding land, once the estate of John Ellis Roosevelt, is now part of the Sans Souci Lake Nature Preserve and is owned by the county. The Bayport Heritage Association has restored the first floor of the building to its 1910 appearance and offers tours in the summer, said James E. Connell, the group's vice president.
 A Bay Shore couple said they were looking for the Peace Labyrinth at Rotary Park when they saw the winery sign along South Main Street in Sayville. They took the dirt road north and came to the tasting room, which was built 15 years ago from rough-cut lumber and tree trunks. 
 ''I felt like we had showed up at someone's house that we hadn't seen in years,'' said Kat M. Cleary, 46, of Bay Shore. Her husband, Dan, also 46, said the atmosphere reminded him of southern Vermont, where his sister lives.
 Mr. Loughlin, one of four children, was born in 1926 in the cottage about 50 yards south of the vineyard. His mother, who came from Ireland, was a governess to the children of John E. Roosevelt, a cousin of President Theodore Roosevelt. Mr. Loughlin's father, also from Ireland, became a caretaker of the land after the couple married, Mr. Loughlin said.
 Mr. Loughlin said he bought 15 acres of the estate, called Meadow Croft, in 1948. Cattle, donkeys and horses roamed the farm until 1984, when it became a vineyard.
 Mr. Loughlin said his wife, Christine G. Loughlin, who helped him start the vineyard, died in 1995. Their three daughters, Mary Ellen Richter, Beth Cutrone and Patricia Jones, help run it today.
 ''It started as a hobby,'' Mr. Loughlin said. ''Then it became a business. Then it became work. Nice healthy work.''
 Outside it was 40 degrees and breezy, but in the tasting room, bars of sunlight in the windows and the heat from the stove kept the temperature at 70 degrees, according to a thermometer that advertised the Long Island Cauliflower Association. Mr. Loughlin poured more wine, and someone asked him about the toaster oven in the corner. 
 The toaster was set at 250 degrees to test an invention for the firefighting industry, said Mr. Loughlin, a former Sayville fire chief. He makes and sells various devices to help firefighters navigate through smoke and along ladders.
 ''I was a fire chief 300 years ago,'' he said. ''I do a lot of crazy things.''
 But he said one thing that isn't crazy is dealing with people.
 ''People are nice,'' Mr. Loughlin said. ''If you treat people right, they'll be nice.''
 Then a stern-looking man with a broad chest approached the tasting room.
 ''This guy looks mad,'' Mr. Loughlin said, and a dozen customers leaned forward in anticipation. ''Who wants to be the owner?''
 The man, who turned out to be friendly, was Eric E. Anderson, 51, of Melville. Mr. Anderson, an architect, had just came from a beer-tasting event nearby.
 ''It's springtime,'' he said, smiling over his merlot. ''It's the time to get out.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EAGER GREETER: Barney Loughlin, 83, owner of Loughlin Vineyards in Sayville, speaking with Victor Rivas, right, and his wife, Katie, who walked to the Loughlin tasting room from their home nearby in Bayport. Left, a view from the tasting room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); WINERIES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); EVENT MARKETING (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); FESTIVALS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1156 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WINEMAKERS NO LONGER AN AMATEUR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: From Hobbyist to Businessman to Worker

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY

DATELINE: SAYVILLE 

 BODY:
 LIGHT laughter flowed from the tasting room here at Loughlin Vineyards on the first weekend of spring. A scrap of lumber propped open the door, and sunlight warmed it. Inside, Barney Loughlin, the owner, sat with his back to a wood-burning stove that kept the room toasty.
 Two visitors hovered at the entrance. Mr. Loughlin, 83, quickly stood up and greeted them. 
 ''Care for a wine-tasting?'' he asked. The couple nodded and strolled in. Mr. Loughlin poured cabernet sauvignon into tiny plastic cups and finished his thought, which drew chuckles: ''If you don't like it, throw it outside. It'll kill the weeds.'' 
 Mr. Loughlin was one of many winemakers in the region welcoming the spring hatch of wine-lovers after a winter spent pruning vines, fertilizing soil and attending to quieter tasting rooms as wines from last season underwent their initial aging in storage tanks. 
 The recession has presented a challenge, winemakers said, but vineyards and wineries have countered with events to attract customers.
 The Long Island Wine Council and its partners are preparing for a barrel-tasting promotion scheduled for Saturdays in April and May. It will allow visitors to preview certain red wines and roses before they are released for sale, said Steven L. Bate, the wine council's executive director.
 In New Jersey, wineries are focusing on events for Mother's Day and a blues and wine festival on May 23 and 24 in Somerset County. Many Connecticut wineries also plan barrel-tasting events.
 In the Hudson Valley, wineries are preparing for April 18 and 19, when Pasta Primo-Vino! -- hosted by the Shawangunk Wine Trail -- will celebrate spring and bud-break by pairing newly released wines with food.
 Kerry McKillop, an events and marketing coordinator for Pindar Vineyards and Duck Walk Vineyards, both on Long Island, said early spring is a good time to visit vineyards and wineries and learn about the winemaking process because fewer customers are around.
 ''You get that one-on-one attention,'' she said. 
 Loughlin Vineyards does not have a winery but is building one on the property. The vineyard has for years hired wineries on the North Fork to make its wines. Mr. Loughlin said he hopes to produce 1,000 cases of wine from the three tons of cabernet sauvignon, merlot and chardonnay grapes harvested each year.
 One customer said he looked forward to Mr. Loughlin's wines.
 ''I've been coming out here the better part of 10 years,'' said Ron K. Bennett, 63, a factory engineer who lives in Bay Shore. He sipped a cabernet sauvignon while Mr. Loughlin prepared a case of reds, whites and blush.
 Mr. Bennett said it took him six months to find the vineyard after hearing about it. ''I figured it was tucked back here somewhere,'' he said.
 The vineyard is on a tongue of land between two branches of Browns Creek that drain Lotus Lake and Mill Pond in Suffolk County. The surrounding land, once the estate of John Ellis Roosevelt, is now part of the Sans Souci Lake Nature Preserve and is owned by the county. The Bayport Heritage Association has restored the first floor of the building to its 1910 appearance and offers tours in the summer, said James E. Connell, the group's vice president.
 A Bay Shore couple said they were looking for the Peace Labyrinth at Rotary Park when they saw the winery sign along South Main Street in Sayville. They took the dirt road north and came to the tasting room, which was built 15 years ago from rough-cut lumber and tree trunks. 
 ''I felt like we had showed up at someone's house that we hadn't seen in years,'' said Kat M. Cleary, 46, of Bay Shore. Her husband, Dan, also 46, said the atmosphere reminded him of southern Vermont, where his sister lives.
 Mr. Loughlin, one of four children, was born in 1926 in the cottage about 50 yards south of the vineyard. His mother, who came from Ireland, was a governess to the children of John E. Roosevelt, a cousin of President Theodore Roosevelt. Mr. Loughlin's father, also from Ireland, became a caretaker of the land after the couple married, Mr. Loughlin said.
 Mr. Loughlin said he bought 15 acres of the estate, called Meadow Croft, in 1948. Cattle, donkeys and horses roamed the farm until 1984, when it became a vineyard.
 Mr. Loughlin said his wife, Christine G. Loughlin, who helped him start the vineyard, died in 1995. Their three daughters, Mary Ellen Richter, Beth Cutrone and Patricia Jones, help run it today.
 ''It started as a hobby,'' Mr. Loughlin said. ''Then it became a business. Then it became work. Nice healthy work.''
 Outside it was 40 degrees and breezy, but in the tasting room, bars of sunlight in the windows and the heat from the stove kept the temperature at 70 degrees, according to a thermometer that advertised the Long Island Cauliflower Association. Mr. Loughlin poured more wine, and someone asked him about the toaster oven in the corner. 
 The toaster was set at 250 degrees to test an invention for the firefighting industry, said Mr. Loughlin, a former Sayville fire chief. He makes and sells various devices to help firefighters navigate through smoke and along ladders.
 ''I was a fire chief 300 years ago,'' he said. ''I do a lot of crazy things.''
 But he said one thing that isn't crazy is dealing with people.
 ''People are nice,'' Mr. Loughlin said. ''If you treat people right, they'll be nice.''
 Then a stern-looking man with a broad chest approached the tasting room.
 ''This guy looks mad,'' Mr. Loughlin said, and a dozen customers leaned forward in anticipation. ''Who wants to be the owner?''
 The man, who turned out to be friendly, was Eric E. Anderson, 51, of Melville. Mr. Anderson, an architect, had just came from a beer-tasting event nearby.
 ''It's springtime,'' he said, smiling over his merlot. ''It's the time to get out.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EAGER GREETER: Barney Loughlin, 83, owner of Loughlin Vineyards in Sayville, speaking with Victor Rivas, right, and his wife, Katie, who walked to the Loughlin tasting room from their home nearby in Bayport. Left, a view from the tasting room. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); WINERIES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); EVENT MARKETING (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); FESTIVALS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1157 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
 THE LETTERS OF NOEL COWARD, edited by Barry Day. (Vintage, $19.95.) This collection inspires lists -- of Coward's achievements (actor, playwright and composer, novelist, autobiographer) and of his correspondents (pretty much everybody in 20th-century British literature and theater, including Virginia Woolf, Bernard Shaw, John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier . . . ). Coward's letters are enormously charming (his correspondents' aren't bad either), and Barry Day provides amplifications, explanations, biographical data and background material. They all add up to ''a first-class biography,'' John Simon wrote in the Book Review. Funny, too. 
 THE SORROWS OF AN AMERICAN, by Siri Hustvedt. (Picador, $14.) A Brooklyn psychoanalyst struggling to come to terms with his father's death finds a mysterious letter referring to a long-kept secret. With his sister, who is also grieving her husband, a man with secrets of his own, he attempts to find out more about his family's Norwegian immigrant past. Hustvedt's characters understand their lives through reading and conversation, and she is able to weave ideas into an absorbing plot in this thought-provoking novel. 
 COMMON WEALTH: Economics for a Crowded Planet, by Jeffrey D. Sachs. (Penguin, $17.) Sachs describes the looming global environmental crisis and ways to avert disaster in this well-constructed book. He believes we can build sustainable systems, stabilize the world population and end extreme poverty by 2025 through cooperation between the public and private sectors. J. Gustave Speth, a prominent environmentalist, is less hopeful. In THE BRIDGE AT THE EDGE OF THE WORLD: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing From Crisis to Sustainability (Yale University, $18), he argues that the degradation of the earth results from ''systematic failures of the capitalism we have today.'' (He's not so encouraged by socialism either.) He warns the environmental movement that ''working only within the system will . . . not succeed when what is needed is transformative change in the system itself.'' 
 THE RESERVE, by Russell Banks. (Harper Perennial, $14.99.) A wealthy socialite and a famous left-wing artist meet in the Adirondacks during the 1930s in this novel of love, art and class, culminating in violent death and destructive fire. 
 THE MAN WHO PUSHED AMERICA TO WAR: The Extraordinary Life, Adventures, and Obsessions of Ahmad Chalabi, by Aram Roston. (Nation Books, $16.95.) ''There's never been'' a foreigner ''so crucially involved in a decision by the United States to go to war,'' our reviewer, Leslie Gelb, said about Ahmad Chalabi. Roston presents a coherent and fair-minded account of how this wealthy banker connived to get the American military to drive Saddam Hussein from power and install him in his place. ''The problem,'' Gelb wrote, ''is not that Chalabi did what he thought was necessary; it is that we fell for it all without serious examination.'' 
 FAIR SHARES FOR ALL: A Memoir of Family and Food, by John Haney. (Random House, $15.) Haney recalls growing up in Britain in the 1950s, when working-class families like his took their first steps toward postwar prosperity. His favorite foods, like bacon sandwiches, evoke his beloved Cockney relatives as he leaves them behind. 
 BLOOD KIN, by Ceridwen Dovey. (Penguin, $14.) Dovey's terrifying first novel imagines a military coup in an unnamed country -- ''the President'' is overthrown by ''the Commander'' -- as seen by the deposed leader's portraitist, chef and barber. Power and sadism are its themes. 
 THE RACE CARD: How Bluffing About Bias Makes Race Relations Worse, by Richard Thompson Ford. (Picador, $16.) Playing the race card, says Ford, right, is making ''false or exaggerated claims of bias'' that ''piggyback on real instances of victimization'' -- think of Tawana Brawley or Clarence Thomas's accusation of a ''high-tech lynching.'' In this tightly argued book, ''Ford vivisects every sacred cow in 'post-racist America,'' Orlando Patterson wrote in the Book Review. ''Inevitably he overreaches . . . but the end result is a vigorous and long-overdue shake-up of the nation's stale discourse on race.'' Patterson also praised Ford's ''exquisitely subversive mind.'' 
 THE LABRADOR PACT, by Matt Haig. (Penguin, $15.) ''If you want the truth, ask the dog,'' Haig's canine narrator . . . says, I guess. ''Who but the dog knows the whole picture?'' A black Labrador tries to keep his human family together in this curiously affecting novel, which is dark and comic without ever becoming icky. 
 GAMING THE VOTE: Why Elections Aren't Fair (and What We Can Do About It), by William Poundstone. (Hill & Wang, $15.) At least 5 out of 45 presidential elections have gone to the second-most-popular candidate because of spoilers. Poundstone clearly and entertainingly surveys some possibilities that might lead to fairer results. His favorite system is ''range voting,'' in which voters rate each candidate on a scale of one to five. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2009 Sunday

 CORRECTION:
 A brief report in the Paperback Row column on Page 20 this weekend misstates a word in the title of a book by James Gustave Speth. It is ''The Bridge at the Edge of the World,'' not ''End of the World.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); LITERATURE (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); IMMIGRATION (67%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (58%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1158 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3338 words

HEADLINE: Events in Westchester

 BODY:
Comedy
 ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater ''Comedy Night Round 29: Battle of the Sexes.'' Tuesday at 6:15 p.m. $73, price includes meal. Westchester Broadway Theater, 75 Clearbrook Road. (914) 592-2222; broadwaytheatre.com.
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts David Sedaris. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $40 to $60. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 Film
 KINGSTON Ulster Performing Arts Center ''Funny Girl,'' starring Barbra Streisand. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $5. Ulster Performing Arts Center, 601 Broadway. (845) 473-2072; upac.org. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''Wendy and Lucy,'' directed by Kelly Reichardt. Wednesday through April 9. $7 to $9. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center ''Westchester Jewish Film Festival 2009,'' various screenings and events. Through Thursday. $6 to $16. ''Hunger,'' directed by contemporary visual artist Steve McQueen. Friday. $6 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. (914) 747-5555; burnsfilmcenter.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Focus on French Cinema 2009,'' various screenings and events. Friday through April 5. $10 to 95. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; focusonfrenchcinema.org. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''Un Secret,'' French film directed by Claude Miller. Based on Phillippe Grimbert's novel. Wednesday at 7 p.m. $9 and $11. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300; jccmidwestchester.org. 
 For Children
 SCARSDALE Greenburgh Nature Center ''Nature Bugs,'' looking for signs of life on the lawn and in the woods. Meet a museum animal each week and do a craft or nature game. Ages 2 to 5. Monday. $4 to $8. Greenburgh Nature Center, 99 Dromore Road. greenburghnaturecenter.org; (914) 723-3470. 
 TARRYTOWN J C C on the Hudson ''Mama Doni and the Mama Doni Band Cut Loose at a Chocolate Passover Seder,'' concert and holiday celebration. All ages. March 29 at 2:30 p.m. $20; $35, family Seder and concert. J. C. C. on the Hudson, 371 South Broadway. (914) 366-7898; jcconthehudson.org. 
 TARRYTOWN Warner Library ''Family Movies: The 70th anniversary of Walt Disney's 'Pinocchio.' '' Ages 3 and up. Monday at 6:30 p.m. Free. Warner Library, 121 North Broadway. (914) 631-7734;
 warnerlibrary.org. 
 WHITE PLAINS White Plains Public Library ''Jerusalem Sky,'' a children's exhibition. Through April 5. White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue. (914) 422-1480; whiteplainslibrary.org. 
 Museums and Galleries
 ARMONK The Studio: An Alternative Space for Contemporary Art ''Contemporary Selections: A Look at Abstract and Figurative Sculpture,'' group show. Through May 10. Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m., or by appointment. The Studio: An Alternative Space for Contemporary Art, 2 Maryland Avenue. (914) 273-1452; thestudiony-alternative.org. 
 BEACON 400 Square LLC ''Alternative Processes in a Contemporary World,'' photography exhibition featuring works by Denise DeVore, Donna Francis, Jennifer Konig and Kristy Reichert. Through April 30. 400 Square LLC, 149 Main Street. (914) 522-4736; 400square.com. 
 BEACON Go North: A Space for Contemporary Art ''The Sacred Balance of the Irreverent: Remembering Audrey Chibbaro,'' retrospective exhibition of the late artist's work. Through April 5. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Go North: A Space for Contemporary Art, 469 Main Street. (845) 242-1951; gonorthgallery.com. 
 BRONXVILLE Noel Fine Art ''The Art of Assemblage,'' mixed-media sculptures by Noel DeGaetano. Through Tuesday. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Noel Fine Art, 80 Kraft Avenue. (914) 337-4050; noelfineart.com. 
 BRONXVILLE OSilas Gallery ''The Vale of Kashmir: Photographs by John Isaac.'' ''Figures in an Imaginary Landscape: A Show of Digital Painting,'' by Kit Fitzgerald. Both through April 8. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. OSilas Gallery, 171 White Plains Road. (914) 395-4520;
 osilasgallery.org. 
 CROSS RIVER Gallery in the Park, Ward Pound Ridge Reservation ''Pursuing Light,'' with oil paintings by Chris Magadini, a Croton-on-Hudson artist. Through April 30. Daily, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Gallery in the Park, Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, Routes 35 and 121 South. westchestergov.com/parks; (914) 864-7371. 
 CROTON-ON-HUDSON Rutheny's Brook Street Gallery ''Barefoot and Illiterate: 'Not Shoes' and 'Not Books,' '' three-dimensional assemblage sculptures by Dana DeVito, Marcy B. Freedman and Carla Rae Johnson. Through Tuesday. Rutheny's Brook Street Gallery, 80 Brook Street. (914) 271-0980. 
 GREENBURGH Greenburgh Town Hall ''Matters of the Heart: Supporting Creative Aging Through the Arts,'' exhibition by Westchester artists 55 years and older. Through May 5. Free. Greenburgh Town Hall, 177 Hillside Avenue. (914) 271-3878; greenburghny.com. 
 HUDSON John Davis Gallery ''Above the Neck: Prints and Drawings by Constance Jacobson.'' Through March 29. John Davis Gallery, 362 1/2 Warren Street. (518) 828-5907; johndavisgallery.com.
 IRVINGTON Irvington Public Library ''Photography Gone Wild,'' an exhibition of color digital photographs by Lev Gogish. Through Tuesday. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Irvington Public Library, 12 South Astor Street. (914) 591-7840; irvingtonlibrary.org. 
 KATONAH John Jay Homestead Historic Site ''John Jay and the Treaty of Paris,'' exhibition commemorating the 225th anniversary of the signing of the treaty that ended the Revolutionary War. Through Sept. 1. $7; seniors and students, $5; children under 12, free. John Jay Homestead Historic Site, 400 Route 22. (914) 232-5651; johnjayhomestead.org. 
 KATONAHKatonah Museum of Art ''Lichtenstein in Process,'' featuring 65 works by the artist. Through June 28. $3 and $5; members and children, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays till 8 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Katonah Museum of Art, 134 Jay Street. (914) 232-9555; katonahmuseum.org. 
 LARCHMONT Sheldrake Environmental Center ''The Lure of the Land,'' paintings by Hilda Green Demsky. Through June 14. Mondays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sheldrake Environmental Center, 685 Weaver Street.; sheldrakecenter.org; (914) 834-1443. 
 MOUNT KISCO Lot84 ''Here + There,'' photography exhibition of large black and white prints with works by Pamela Landau Connolly. Through June 30. Tuesdays through Saturdays 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Lot84, 84 Lexington Avenue. (914) 244-8535; lot84.com. 
 MOUNT VERNON St. Paul's Church National Historic Site ''Chief Executives on the Village Green: St. Paul's and the Presidents,'' historic prints, documents, artifacts, sound and text explore connections between five presidents and St. Paul's. Through Jan. 1. St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue. (914) 667-4116; nps.gov/sapa. 
 NEW ROCHELLE Third Rail Studio ''Cake,'' a midcareer retrospective of the sculptor and visual artist Don Desper. Through April 18. Hours: Thursdays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment. Third Rail Studio, 49 Plain Avenue. (914) 712-9831; 3rdrailstudio.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Flat Iron Gallery ''Taking Off!'' prints by Kevin Kall. Through April 26. Hours: Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment. Flat Iron Gallery, 105 South Division Street. (914) 734-1894; flatiron.qpg.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art ''Exhibition of 2008 Artist-in-Residence Karen Sargsyan.'' Through May 10. ''Origins,'' multimedia group show. Through July 26. $2 to $5; members, free. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment. Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. (914) 788-0100; hvcca.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''The Hudson Valley Project,'' photography exhibition presented by the Ground Glass. Through June 30. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 PEEKSKILL Westchester Gallery ''Nina Weinberg Doran, Inscription,'' photography. Through April 4. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Westchester Gallery, 27 North Division Street. (914) 606-7300; westchestergallery.wordpress.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Yamet Arts Inc. ''For the Love of Art,'' featuring works by 30 local artists. Through Tuesday. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Yamet Arts Inc., 1000 North Division Street. (914) 737-1646; yametonart.com. 
 PELHAM Pelham Art Center ''And for All This, Nature Is Never Spent,'' sculpture, video, photography and installation-based exhibition addressing specific environmental issues. Through April 25. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Pelham Art Center, 155 Fifth Avenue. pelhamartcenter.org; (914) 738-2525. 
 POUGHKEEPSIEVassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center ''Faith and Fantasy in Outsider Art From the Permanent Collection,'' more than 50 paintings, drawings, sculptures and mixed-media works by self-taught ''outsider'' artists. Through April 26. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, 124 Raymond Avenue. (845) 437-5632;
 fllac.vassar.edu. 
 POUND RIDGE Hiram Halle Memorial Library ''Taking the Silk Road,'' paintings by Berenice Pliskin. Through April 18. Hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hiram Halle Memorial Library, 271 Westchester Avenue. poundridgelibrary.org; (914) 764-5085. 
 PURCHASEManhattanville College Gallery of Fine Art ''Art as Social Awareness,'' paintings by Elon Brasil. Through April 10. Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursday and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 12 to 4 p.m. Manhattanville College Gallery of Fine Art, 2900 Purchase Street. (914) 694-2200; manhattanville.edu. 
 PURCHASENeuberger Museum of Art ''Andy Warhol: Pop Politics,'' exhibition of more than 60 works on political leaders who shaped the past century. Through April 26. ''Andy Warhol: Snapshots,'' exhibition of more than 50 photographs from the museum's permanent collection, taken by the artist at different stages in his career. Through May 17. ''American Gothic: True or Faux Notions of American Culture,'' exhibition examining activism, Pop, the Cold War, feminism and capital excess in 1960s America. Through June 7. ''New Media: Why,'' exhibition investigating thematic aspects of technology-based artwork. Through June 28. ''E-Cyclorama,'' large cylindrical panorama painting by Sanford Wurmfeld. Tuesday through Sept. 13. ''African Art and Culture: Selections From the Collection.'' Through Dec. 1. ''Outdoor Sculpture From the Permanent Collection,'' modern and contemporary art throughout the Purchase College campus. Through Dec. 31. All exhibitions $3 and $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Neuberger Museum of Art, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6100; neuberger.org. 
 WEST NYACK Rockland Center for the Arts ''Office Space'' contemporary artists using simple materials representing uniformity while celebrating the individual. Through April 30. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Rockland Center for the Arts, 27 South Greenbush Road. (845) 358-0877; rocklandartcenter.org. 
 WHITE PLAINS White Plains ''David Hayes in White Plains,'' 62-piece, 30-year retrospective with sculptures in public and private spaces throughout the city. Through Dec. 1. White Plains. davidhayes.com.
 WOODSTOCK Galerie B.M.G. ''Elements and Inks,'' photographs by Dan Burkholder. Through May. 18. Hours: Fridays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Galerie B.M.G., 12 Tannery Brook Road. (845) 679-0027; galeriebmg.com. 
 YONKERSHudson River Museum ''Whitfield Lovell: All Things in Time,'' large-scale found objects and charcoal portraits examining African-Americans from Reconstruction through World War II. Through May 10. $3 and $5; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m. Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. (914) 963-4550; hrm.org. 
 Music and Dance
 ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts Bard Conservatory Orchestra, classical. Conducted by Leon Botstein. April 5 at 3 p.m. Free. Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, 30 Campus Road. (845) 758-7900; fishercenter.bard.edu. 
 BEDFORD Bedford Presbyterian Church ''Mary the Muse,'' works by Bernstein, Poulenc, Rachmaninov and more. March 29 at 4 p.m. $25. ''Love's Language: The Song of Songs.'' April 4 at 4 p.m. $20 and $25. Both presented by the Charis Chamber Voices. Bedford Presbyterian Church, Village Green, Routes 172 and 22. (914) 234-3672;
 CharisVocals.com.. 
 KATONAHCaramoor Center for Music and the Arts Ariel String Quartet, classical. Works by Haydn, Beethoven and Brahms. March 29 at 4 p.m. $25. ''Forever Young: Mendelsohn at 200,'' classical. Featuring Caramoor Virtuosi with Edward Arron. April 4 at 8 p.m. $40. Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. (914) 232-1252; caramoor.com. 
 OSSINING Ossining Eagles Hall Corey Ledet with River City Slim and the Zydeco Hogs. Dance lesson included at start of this event. April 4 at 7 p.m. $20. Ossining Eagles Hall, 7 Old Albany Post Road. somebodyscreamny.org; (914) 960-9057. 
 OSSINING Ossining Public Library Hannah Sun, piano. Part of the Nadia Reisenberg Young Artists Series. March 29 at 3 p.m. Free. Ossining Public Library, 53 Croton Avenue. ossininglibrary.org; (914) 941-2416. 
 PEEKSKILL BeanRunner Cafe Gunter Hampel, jazz performance and lecture. March 29, 2 to 6 p.m. $10. BeanRunner Cafe, 201 S. Division Street. (914) 737-1701; beanrunnercafe.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts Hammer of the Gods, Led Zeppelin tribute concert. April 4 at 8 p.m. $30 to $60. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333;
 paramountcenter.org. 
 PIERMONT The Turning Point Lucy Kaplansky, folk and pop. March 29 at 4 p.m. $30. Walt Weiskopf, jazz. Monday at 8 and 9:30 p.m. $15. Johnny A, rock. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $25. Duke Robillard Blues Band. Friday at 9 p.m. $25. Sonny Fortune Quartet, jazz. April 6 at 8 p.m. $20. Dan Hicks and the Hot Licks, blues. April 7 at 8 p.m. $40. The Turning Point, 468 Piermont Avenue. (845) 359-1089; turningpointcafe.com. 
 POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon Opera House The Temptations, Motown and R&B. With full orchestra. April 4 at 8 p.m. $75 to $175. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-5288; bardavon.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College The Purchase Jazz Orchestra, featuring Randy Brecker, trumpet. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $12 and $20. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; artscenter.org. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''I Love Paris,'' music of Aznavour, Brel, Chevalier, Ravel and Bizet. Wednesday at 1 p.m. $21 and $23. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300;
 jccmidwestchester.org. 
 TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall ''YDance Festival,'' featuring youth and adult student dancers. Through March 29. $10 and $20. ''Bela Fleck: The Africa Project,'' jazz. March 29 at 8 p.m. $45 to $85. Brandi Carlile with special guest Gregory Isakov, pop and folk. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $30 to $45. Kenny Loggins, pop and rock. Thursday at 8 p.m. $68 to $98. Jonatha Brooke with special guest Glen Philips, pop. Friday at 8 p.m. $35 and $45. ''Beatlemania Now,'' re-creation of more than 35 classic songs covering the career of the Beatles. April 4 at 8 p.m. $29 to $45. Josh Ritter, folk and rock. April 5 at 8 p.m. $30 to $45. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. (877) 840-0457; tarrytownmusichall.org. 
 TUCKAHOE Westchester Italian Cultural Center ''Neapolitan Songs,'' Italian opera directed by Eugene Sirotkine. Featuring performers from the Metropolitan Opera. Friday at 7 p.m. $60 and $75. Westchester Italian Cultural Center, 1 Generoso Pope Place. (914) 771-8700; wiccny.org. 
 WHITE PLAINS Grace Church ''Hooray for Hollywood,'' a program of rarely heard works by noted European composers working in Hollywood. Presented by Downtown Music. March 29 at 3:30 p.m. $20 and $25. Grace Church, 33 Church Street. (914) 949-0384; DTMusic.org. 
 Outdoors
 RYE Playland Park ''Preparing the Butterfly Garden,'' learn about plant and butterfly relationships, with a focus on native species. April 4 at 1 p.m. Free. Playland Park, (914) 967-8720; ryeplayland.org. 
 SOMERS Muscoot Farm ''Farm Fun,'' join the farm staff members as they explain all about the animals that live at the farm. Play farm-oriented games and enjoy other fun activities. March 29, 1 to 3 p.m. Free. Muscoot Farm, Route 100. (914) 864-7282; westchestergov.com/parks. 
 Spoken Word
 MOUNT VERNON St. Paul's Church National Historic Site ''Washington's Spies,'' the historian Alexander Rose explores the world of New York area spies who supplied George Washington with crucial information during the Revolutionary War. April 11 at 2 p.m. Free. St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue. (914) 667-4116; nps.gov/sapa. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''Carol Leifer in Conversation,'' moderated by Jerry Seinfeld. Live satellite broadcast from the 92nd Street Y. April 7 at 8 p.m. $9 and $11. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300; jccmidwestchester.org. 
 SHRUB OAK John C. Hart Memorial Library ''Music of the Jazz Age: Lecture with Music,'' Reid Badger discusses how the music of the 1920s reflected the moods and social changes of the period. March 29 at 2 p.m. Free. ''The Economy and Your Investments,'' Andrew Donovan discusses oil, subprime lending, the election and the impact on your portfolio. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. John C. Hart Memorial Library, 1130 Main Street. (914) 245-5262; yorktownlibrary.org. 
 Theater
 CROTON FALLS Schoolhouse Theater ''Biography,'' comedy by S. N. Berhman. Through March 29. $28 and $30. Schoolhouse Theater, 3 Owens Road. (914) 277-8477;
 schoolhousetheater.org. 
 ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater ''Funny Girl,'' musical comedy. Book by Isobel Lennart, music by Jule Styne and lyrics by Bob Merrill. Featuring Jill Abramovitz. Thursday through June 14. $73, price includes meal. Westchester Broadway Theater, 75 Clearbrook Road. broadwaytheatre.com; (914) 592-2222.
 IRVINGTON Irvington Town Hall ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood.'' musical by Rupert Holmes. Presented by the Broadway Training Center. Friday through April 5. $12 and $20. Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street. (914) 591-6602; irvingtontheater.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''Hedda Gabler,'' drama by Henrik Ibsen. Presented by the Might Theater Company. April 5 at 2 p.m. $25. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 PLEASANTVILLE St. John's Episcopal Church Community House ''Cherry and Jerry,'' comedy by Howard Meyer. Presented by Axial Theater. Through April 5. $15 and $20. St. John's Episcopal Church Community House, 8 Sunnyside Avenue. (914) 286-7680;
 axialtheatre.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Richard III,'' by William Shakespeare. Presented by the Purchase Repertory Theater. Through April 5. $12.50 and $17.50. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; artscenter.org. 
 SPRING VALLEY Finkelstein Memorial Library ''Bloody Murder,'' comedy by Ed Sala based on the Agatha Christie murder mystery. Presented by M&M Productions. April 5 at 2 p.m. Free. Finkelstein Memorial Library, 24 Chestnut Street. (845) 352-5700; finkelsteinlibrary.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); FILM GENRES (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); PASSOVER (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); LIBRARIES (63%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (63%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1159 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: An Outcry Over Parking

BYLINE: By Jeremy Herb

DATELINE: MILLBURN 

 BODY:
 The recession has hurt businesses everywhere in the last few months, but several shop owners here say that the downtown parking situation has been just as harmful.
 New parking meters in Millburn have caused an immediate decline in foot traffic downtown, numerous business owners said on Tuesday at a town forum. 
 ''We saw a drop instantly,'' said Joan Boiles, the owner of Millburn Feed Company. ''They can go to Maplewood and park for free, and go to Summit and park for free. We're sandwiched between two towns that have a user-friendly parking system, and we don't. I think that's the biggest problem we have, more so than the economy.''
 The meeting at Town Hall attracted a standing-room-only crowd of about 50 business owners.
 Harold Klein, executive director of the Downtown Millburn Development Alliance, said his group planned to take some of the ideas suggested at the meeting and work with other business associations to start making changes.
 Jeremy Herb
 MAPLEWOOD
 The Local spoke on Tuesday to Karen Freeman Pettis, president of the Maplewood Memorial Library's Board of Trustees, who said it has been extremely difficult to make the $200,000 in cuts -- approximately 10 percent of its total budget -- that the board agreed to at its last meeting
 Changes include fewer summer weekend hours, making a full-time librarian job part time, cutting three full-time jobs and eliminating security guards at both libraries, reducing workers' hours, putting into effect an unpaid two-week furlough in August and, after Wednesday, eliminating Friday hours at the Hilton branch. 
 ''Sundays are a very popular day, but unfortunately it is also our most expensive day, because the staff is paid overtime,'' Ms. Freeman Pettis said. She said the state requires the library to stay open a certain number of hours, and evenings, each week.
 Tina Kelley 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (73%); OVERTIME (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LIBRARIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1160 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Q & A: ARNOLD PALMER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Arnold Palmer's Views on the Economy and Speedy Play

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
It was just before 10:15 a.m. Thursday, and the host of the Arnold Palmer Invitational was moving through his check list. He had polished off an 8 a.m. breakfast speech to some tournament partners and a 10 a.m. photo-op with about 50 South American collaborators in a golf course venture. 
 Six months shy of his 80th birthday, tan and smiling, Arnold Palmer checked his watch. He had some time before a scheduled interview, so he sat down in the well-worn leather chair behind his desk, uncapped his Sharpie and began to sign.
 His callused fingers engulfed the marker and the big hand moved swiftly, with near-artistic precision, putting sport's most recognizable signature on an array of hats, photographs, posters, programs and scorecards from around the globe. 
 More than three and a half decades after his 52nd and final PGA Tour victory in 1973, this is how Arnold Palmer remains one of the world's most popular athletes. People who may never have seen him play, who have no idea he won 29 times from 1960-64 -- including six of his seven major championships -- still flood his office asking for autographs. He signs every one.
 ''We've never had an exact figure, but it has to be near a million,'' Bev Norwood, a close Palmer associate for 31 years, said when asked how many Palmer had signed. 
 That many autographs already in circulation could explain why a vintage Pennzoil piggy bank bearing Palmer's signature had not yet fetched an opening eBay bid of $4.99 by Friday. Palmer is proud of the autograph glut he has created, and plans to keep prices down by continuing to sign for free. He then turned his attention to the golf market.
 Q:Your tournament seems to be doing well despite the tough economy. Is it?
 A: It is. We have more going on than we have ever had. The crowds have been good. We could use some more sponsors, but there's a lot of action. 
 Q: Some other events on Tour are challenged, though. Does it concern you?
 A: I'm not overly concerned. I think maybe we're overstating the overall seriousness of the situation. The financial houses and the automotive industry are hit the hardest. But I think that will come back. I think that that's a temporary thing.
 Q:Recently Wachovia chose to remove its name from its tournament in May but will continue its sponsorship through 2014. Does that strike you as unusual, that this would become a political issue? 
 A: That's exactly what it is. Do I find it unusual? Yes. But I think the fact they are living up to their commitments is very good, and I think once this recession is gone it will return to normal. It's going to take maybe a couple years, but I think it'll go away, and we'll go back to the type of sponsorship that Wachovia and some other financial institutions have given us because it is good customer relationships, and it creates a good customer relationship with the people that they're doing business with. 
 Q:Some critical comments from Washington recently did not seem to reflect an understanding of the business? 
 A: I'm disappointed in our political reaction and actions right now. When some of our politicians are flying around the country in private airplanes all the time, using public services as their mode of private transportation, and then criticizing us who are in business. 
 Q:You were born and raised during the Great Depression. Any vivid memories?
 A: I have a lot of recollections. My father was a greenkeeper. I can remember details of what we had to do to survive, and I know in our case we lived on the edge of a golf course, and we thought it was normal that we raised chickens, we raised pigs, we butchered in the fall, and it was all a result of the Depression. In 1939, my father bought a four-door Chevrolet, financed it, and he paid it off in 1948. That kind of thing was sort of commonplace.
 Q:In 1960, you and the Masters and television converged and you became synonymous with the event. Lately there is talk about how lengthening Augusta National has drained some drama because people want to see ...
 A: Birdies and eagles, right? There's no question that the galleries still like to see birdies and eagles. If you take them all away, it takes some of the dramatics, the excitement of a golf tournament and we don't want to do that. 
 Q: Switching gears, you and Elvis both deserved the nickname of King, but some friends have said you don't like it. True?
 A: That's right. I don't think golf has a king, and I don't think it needs a king. It just started and a lot of people, players, everybody picked it up. There were times, I suppose, that I was flattered they thought it was appropriate. But I never really did like it and I didn't think it was necessary.
 Q:It bothered you?
 A: I suppose looking back now, the people that started it were very interested and didn't do it maliciously; they were doing it because they liked me and they felt like I was lending something to the game.
 Q:If you were the czar of golf, what would you change?
 A: I would put in regulations to slow the ball down by 15 to 20 percent, so if a man drove it 300 yards, he'd be really hitting it. I want to take it back to where the golf courses are a little more challenging without making them 7,600 or 8,000 yards long. I'd also do a campaign to get the pace of play up a little bit. That's why I don't object to range finders. Anything that would help people get around a golf course a little faster I'm in favor of. 
 Q: You and your father had a special relationship that has been well-documented. Other than your dad, who was a special influence on your life?
 A: Well, my father was No. 1. I can't ever remember him telling me something that was wrong, even to this day. The things that he told me or said to me have been right, and they are right today. Dwight Eisenhower was someone I'd put in the class with my father. I sat and talked to him for hours years ago, when he was ailing and not able to play golf anymore. We'd talk and have a beer, and his remarks were much on line with what my father had said. And of course we got into other areas that I won't talk about, likes and dislikes. I thought he was one of the wonderful people that I had the privilege of knowing in my life.
 Q:Anything you would like to have a mulligan on? 
 A: (Laughs) I'd like to have a do-over on a couple P.G.A. Championships. But, no, I'm pretty happy with golf. I think when I started playing and the purses were $10,000 -- that's $10,000 total money -- and I see how fast and how quickly it went up, which was my objective to help make that happen, and it happened. It may have happened a little faster than maybe I thought it should, but certainly I'm very happy that it made the progression that it did. I suppose looking at the overall scene, the golf picture is pretty good. I'm not happy about losing the number of golf courses we're losing through this recession. That bothers me. But again, a recession, no one plans on recessions or depressions, and there isn't much we can do. In my speech this morning one of the things that I said was that, you know, the world isn't going to go away. We're going to come back. We'll see the game come back and gain its position again.
 Q: Are there any positives resulting from the recession? 
 A: I think there's some good news, too, and the good news is that the players have become more aware of the fact that we need sponsors, and we need the good will that is created by the players being, let's say, cooperative with the sponsors -- meaning friendly. 
 Q: Being friendly was not something you needed to be reminded about, was it? 
 A: I enjoy the people that I have met, and I could go on forever and ever and ever and talk about some of the associates and the associations that I have had for the last 60 -- well, 70 years. They're fantastic. I have people in my office here this morning that I've been associated with for 40 years, and they're still friends. I think that's great, and that's golf. My doctor, for an example, Norton Baker, if it weren't for golf, he'd never even see me. I'd have to wait a month to get in to see the office. But the fact that I play golf and he plays golf, I get in in pretty short order. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1161 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Questions for Reform

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner sounded the right notes last week when he presented a first draft of the administration's plan to reform the financial system. He said the system had failed ''in fundamental ways'' and would require comprehensive overhaul. ''Not modest repairs at the margin,'' he told Congress, ''but new rules of the game.'' 
 It is too early to say whether a fleshed-out proposal -- and what Congress eventually passes -- will amount to a game changer. Some of Mr. Geithner's proposals do appear aimed at limiting dangers that have lurked for too long in dark corners of the markets. Others may simply preserve Wall Street's prerogative to party on once the current storm has passed. 
 For instance, Mr. Geithner called for all large hedge funds and private equity firms to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission, a move that could bring much-needed disclosure and oversight to vast pools of capital that fed the bubble economy. But the S.E.C. would not have the full authority to resolve all concerns. Rather, it would report its findings up what could turn out to be a convoluted chain of regulatory command. 
 Similarly, Mr. Geithner called for oversight of unregulated derivatives, like the credit default swaps at the heart of the debacle at American International Group. But he made a troubling distinction between ''standardized'' derivatives and ''non-standardized'' ones, and proposed different regulation for each. That looks like a loophole disguised as a new rule. Derivatives, now swapped one-on-one, ad infinitum across the financial system, need to be traded on a fully regulated exchange, period.
 A dual system would close off some activities, but would also invite a variation on the regulator shopping that Mr. Geithner said he wanted to stop.
 The real tension in Mr. Geithner's presentation was in what went unsaid. His proposals can serve as the basis to start a reform discussion. But there are big underlying issues that Congress and the administration should keep in mind. Here are three that concern us now:
 Is too big to fail too big to exist? The notion of institutions ''too big to fail'' is shorthand for firms whose collapse would endanger the entire financial system. It is not just a matter of size. Such firms, like A.I.G., have proved dangerous mainly because of their involvement in a web of often conflicting financial practices and products. The A.I.G. financial unit that sold credit default swaps did not have the wherewithal to make good on its obligations, but leeched off the AAA rating of the company's strong insurance business. 
 Of all the proposals Mr. Geithner laid out this week, the most far-reaching pertain to such systemically important firms. He called for a single powerful regulator to police the most powerful institutions, presumably intervening to require more capital whenever sheer size and conflicting activities appear threatening. In the all-too-likely event that firms would get too big to fail anyway, he called for new government powers to seize and restructure them, if failure seemed imminent. No one disputes that this authority is needed in today's world to avoid calamitous bankruptcies and bailouts. The aim would be to make such takeovers as orderly as a bank seizure by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
 The important question, however, is whether, in a reformed future, any firm should even come close to getting too big -- too diverse, too interconnected -- to fail. 
 Mr. Geithner's plan assumes that such firms will be a feature of the financial landscape going forward. That is a radical shift in perspective. Depression-era legislation, after all, prevented financial firms from mixing commercial banking with investment banking and insurance. Only in the last 10 years -- with the passage in 1999 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act -- have such financial supermarkets been allowed to re-emerge. 
 Supporters of Gramm-Leach-Bliley recognized that too-big-to-fail firms posed a risk of taxpayer bailouts. Their concerns were soothed by a belief that market discipline, combined with innovative ways to reduce risk -- namely derivatives like credit default swaps -- would mitigate the danger. We now know that discipline failed and the innovations actually amplified risk greatly.
 In some cases, these big firms allowed ever more financial risk to be piled on ever-thinner cushions of capital. That helped to juice Wall Street profits, but did it really outweigh the disadvantages that are now so painfully evident in taxpayer-funded bailouts?
 If there is no proven way to reduce the systemic risk in big and interconnected firms, why should they be allowed to exist? It would take some time to dismantle them, so the government should, in the meantime, be granted the resolution authority to seize them if needed. But that should not substitute for a debate on whether such firms should be allowed to exist at all. 
 What are we trying to fix, anyway? The urgency to repair the financial system is mainly political. Crises create intense public awareness and with it, the opportunity for change that reform-minded officials do not want to squander. Even lawmakers who would prefer the status quo feel the pressure to act. 
 But does anyone understand with specificity what brought on the financial meltdown? Can the lawmakers and other officials charged with writing the new rules explain the transactions, interactions, norms, products and relationships that got us in this mess? Can anyone parse how much of the crisis is due to regulatory failure, how much to recklessness and greed, how much to fraud and manipulation? Why, exactly, did Goldman Sachs get $12.9 billion in the A.I.G. bailout? 
 Without the answers, which we do not yet have, Congress and the administration cannot be confident that they are coming up with the right reforms.
 It is clear, however, that there is bipartisan resistance to a thorough investigation of what caused the collapse. There have been hearings galore. But they are often little more than hazings of corporate executives and government officials. Even the illuminating hearings have not been connected in a meaningful way that will help us all understand what went wrong.
 Without an investigation, the reform effort will be at best, hit or miss, and at worst, a charade. Congress should start now to gear up for an investigation, using as its model the 1930s Pecora inquiry into the stock market crash, or the Watergate hearings of the 1970s. The investigation should not be performed by outside experts, like the 9/11 commission, whose report Congress is free to accept or reject. It should be part of the Congressional process and include an investigator with subpoena power and the right to participate in the questioning of witnesses, as well as to prep lawmakers for the hearings. 
 A real investigation might serve as a channel for the public anger now used by politicians to score quick populist points on television without tackling the real issues.
 Who is to carry out the reforms? Any serious call for reform has to acknowledge the severe institutional damage that has been done to the nation's regulatory agencies. For 30 years, the political tide in this country has run against regulation and for deregulation. In the last 10 years, opponents of financial regulation have been especially successful in dismantling and undermining regulation -- putting their faith and the nation's future in the hands of a market discipline that turned out not to exist and can't-miss financial products that missed, big.
 There is not an agency that has not suffered a diminution of expertise or reputation. 
 Recent examples include the Federal Reserve's repeated failures to use its consumer-protection authority to stop unfair mortgage lending; the Securities and Exchange Commission's failure to heed repeated warnings about the Madoff Ponzi scheme; the efforts by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, a bank regulator, to block state regulators' efforts to police lending violations; and the utter failure of the Office of Thrift Supervision, A.I.G's federal regulator, to understand -- or, even worse, care about -- what was going on at that company. 
 Unfortunately, there are many, many more examples. Advocates of deregulation point to the failures as evidence that the government has no intrinsic ability to police markets. That is incorrect. The nation's regulatory agencies have been allowed to languish, underfunded, understaffed -- and too often headed by political appointees who are true believers only in the dogma of deregulation and not in their agencies' missions.
 If the United States is going to have meaningful reform of its out-of-control financial system, new rules will only be a first step.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1162 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Higher and Higher March 22-28

 BODY:
THE NEWS The Metropolitan Transportation Authority board voted to make commuting in the New York area much more costly: subway, bus and commuter rail fares and bridge and tunnel tolls would rise at least 20 percent to 30 percent, with broad cuts in service. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The board said a looming $1.2 billion budget deficit left it no choice. But the real aim of the proposals was to rattle state political leaders enough to break an impasse over a rescue for the M.T.A. The governor and Assembly leaders have a plan for a much smaller fare increase and no service cuts, but it would add tolls on East River bridges that are now free, an idea facing resistance in the State Senate. 
 THE NEWS Residents in Fargo and Grand Forks, N.D., and nearby cities in the northern Great Plains hurriedly built sandbag dikes, emptied their basements, evacuated some low-lying areas and braced for disastrous flooding as the Red River of the North and other waterways in the region rose rapidly to record high levels.
 BEHIND THE NEWS After a saturated autumn and a snowy winter, recent heavy snow and rain sent water levels surging, and then a spring snowstorm complicated efforts to stave off the torrent. Officials dynamited ice floes, some the size of cars, that threatened to clog the upper Missouri and send floodwaters spilling out of the river channel. 
 THE NEWS A Soyuz spacecraft was launched from the Baikonur spaceport in Kazakhstan on its way to the International Space Station, carrying two professional astronauts and Charles Simonyi, the first tourist to return to orbit for a second visit.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Simonyi, a former Microsoft executive born in Hungary, made his first trip in 2007, the fifth paying visitor to the station, which has since been expanded significantly and will soon double its permanent crew to six astronauts. Mr. Simonyi will remain on board for 10 days, helping out with some experiments. He has not said how much he paid, but the list price for an orbital visit is $35 million and rising.
 THE NEWS Cheered by the specifics of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's plans for relieving the nation's banks of some of their most troublesome assets, as well as by hints in the latest economic data that the recession may soon bottom out, investors bid the stock market up sharply, especially shares of financial firms. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The 7.1 percent gain by the S. & P. 500 index on Monday was its best showing in five months, and the momentum carried through some later profit-taking to yield a 6.2 percent gain for the week and 21 percent since March 9. Still, it would take 10 more weeks of similar advances just to get the index back to where it began 2008. 
 THE NEWS When the White House invited Internet users to submit and vote on questions for President Obama to answer in a town-hall-style forum about the economy, questions about legalizing marijuana shot to the top of the popularity charts in every category.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Advocacy groups like Norml made a concerted effort to mobilize supporters to swamp the electronic ballot box, illustrating the forum's vulnerability to ''smart-mobbing'' tactics; similar manipulation affected some online candidate forums during the 2007-08 election cycle. Mr. Obama laughed off the questions, saying legalizing and taxing marijuana would not be a good idea for the economy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES
BILL INGALLS/NASA, VIA REUTERS
CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES
 MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); RIVERS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); WEATHER (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); SPACE STATIONS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (71%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1163 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Companies Pretty Up Prices to Win Stimulus Projects

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Department stores are marking down their spring collections. Broadway shows are offering discount tickets. Now road work is on sale, as well.
 Construction companies, hungry for work in the dismal economy, have slashed their prices to try to win the first round of public works projects being paid for by the federal stimulus package. 
 Pennsylvania officials said contractors competing for their first round of road and bridge projects had offered bids 15 percent lower than the state had expected. Utah officials said some of their bids were coming in 25 percent lower than expected. And a bid to build a 4.7-mile extension of Interstate 49 from Shreveport, La., toward the Arkansas state line came in at $31.1 million, about $4.7 million less than the Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development had estimated the project would cost. 
 ''The bids are coming in lower than we would have imagined,'' Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in an interview, adding that the low bids should provide good value to taxpayers. ''I think there's a huge appetite for these projects, and people are raring to go. There's pent-up demand for people to get these bids and get the work.''
 If the low bids keep coming and the price of construction material stays low, the Utah Department of Transportation hopes to get more work done with the stimulus money than expected, said Nile Easton, a spokesman for the agency. ''We're hoping that we can actually stretch that money,'' he said.
 The low bids are the result of supply and demand: there are plenty of construction workers out there and not much demand for their work lately. Many construction operations suffered when residential and commercial building evaporated as the recession hit, and then again when public works tapered off as many states cut back. So they are eager to get back to work, even if it means they must charge less to do it. 
 Of course, the whole idea of the stimulus law was to pump a lot of money into the economy quickly. State officials said they would have no problem spending all the money they are receiving from the federal government; if projects continued to cost less than expected, they added, they would simply tackle more of them.
 ''I think it's a good deal for taxpayers, and taxpayers need a good deal right now,'' Patrick Cooney, a spokesman for the Oregon Department of Transportation, said last week after coming back to work from a furlough day to save the state money. 
 Some argue that low bids should raise red flags. Barry B. LePatner, a construction lawyer, said that unless states performed independent estimates to find out the true costs of their projects, they risked awarding contracts to companies whose low bids did not reflect the true cost of the work. In such cases, he said, it is common for a company to try to undercut its competition with a low bid and then, once it has won the job, try to eke out a profit by putting in numerous change orders that drive up the price and delay the project. 
 ''You have already started down the road to nowhere,'' said Mr. LePatner, whose book ''Broken Buildings, Busted Budgets'' argues that reforms are needed to curb the cost overruns that plague the industry.
 States are gearing up to begin work now that spring and the construction season are at hand. By last week, 34 states had been given the go-ahead for nearly 1,000 projects worth $3.4 billion, transportation officials said.
 Officials in many states see the low bids as a sign that they are in a buyer's market. A few years ago transportation officials in Utah, concerned that there was little competition for their construction work, put together a team to try to entice more companies to bid for the jobs. Now, as the first stimulus projects get under way, they are getting a half-dozen bids for each job -- and many are coming in at 25 percent below their estimates.
 ''Boy, it's a great time to be putting projects out,'' Mr. Easton said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAILERS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (77%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); LAWYERS (62%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (57%) UTAH, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1164 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Weeks of Wooing First Lady Pay Off for a New University

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Michelle Obama has chosen the University of California, Merced, the smallest, newest campus in a state system that includes heavyweights like U.C.L.A., as her sole stop on the college commencement circuit. 
 The decision, announced by the university on Friday, came after weeks of online and old-school arm-twisting by a coterie of seniors in the first full class to graduate from the university, which was established in 2005. 
 One senior, Yaasha Sabbaghian, 22, said efforts included enlisting the help of Prof. Charles J. Ogletree of Harvard, a Merced native who is a friend of the Obamas, as well as sending hundreds of handwritten letters and Valentine's Day cards.
 ''We laid on the charm,'' said Mr. Sabbaghian, a biology student. 
 A spokeswoman for Mrs. Obama said the first lady was ''very touched'' by the campaign, particularly a ''Dear Michelle'' Facebook campaign, whose site on Friday carried an ecstatic message -- ''!!! We did it !!!'' 
 University officials said they expected the May 16 speech to be a boon for the institution, whose 100-acre campus was built on a former cattle ranch and initially had trouble attracting students. Enrollment grew to about 2,700 students this year. 
 Mr. Sabbaghian said he hoped Mrs. Obama would bring an inspirational message for the students in Merced, a Central Valley city that has suffered from mass foreclosures and high unemployment. And if she wanted to bring friends, he said, that would be O.K., too. 
 ''A lot of people said, 'Why don't you try to get the president?' and our first answer was we want him to fix the economy,'' Mr. Sabbaghian said. ''But we'd love him to come and introduce her.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1165 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION LONG ISLAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: A Hidden Benefit of the Downturn

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

DATELINE: Sands Point 

 BODY:
 SINCE ground was broken last July for Stan and Lisa Asnis's 5,300-square-foot cedar-shingle home on 1.5 acres here, construction has proceeded apace. 
 A few months ahead of schedule, the walls have new Sheetrock and are being prepped for paint, a marble floor has been laid in their two daughters' bathroom, wainscoting trims the hallways and built-in window seats and bookshelves decorate the guest room. 
 ''They are really moving along so rapidly,'' Lisa Asnis, a psychologist, said of the contractors. ''We are saving six months potentially.'' 
 People like the Asnises who have been able to forge ahead with construction projects on Long Island are finding that contractors and other workers are lining up to get jobs and are willing to negotiate on deadlines and prices. Also, with prices down on everything from concrete to shingles, construction budgets are stretching further. 
 ''Long Island home builders have been hurting for some time now, and there are bargains to be had,'' said Michael Watt, the executive vice president of the Long Island Builders Institute, a trade group. ''Anyone in a position to buy a home today is going to benefit greatly from a hungry builder anxious to move product.''
 One reason is that housing starts on the Island are at historic lows: 1,815 for Nassau County last year and 1,665 for Suffolk, the lowest number in that county since records started being kept in 1950, according to the New York State Builders Association. So competition for work is keen. 
 Marc B. Spector, a principal in the Spector Group, an architecture firm based in Woodbury, said that the prices of concrete, lumber and copper had dipped, resulting in substantial savings. He said that on a recent custom 5,000-square-foot home in Roslyn Estates, costs had dropped to about $225 a square foot from $375. 
 Further, Mr. Spector said, permits were being issued faster, creating a ''shorter turnaround from drawings to actually doing the building.'' 
 On a recent afternoon at the Asnis project, craftsmen sawed and hammered, a window treatment designer weighed using shutters or wood blinds, and a decorator, having already selected the architectural finishes and hardware, considered carpet options. 
 The family is planning to move into their new home in mid-May, giving their 9-year-old daughter a month to settle in before leaving for summer camp. 
 Deciding to invest in a custom-built house during a housing bust, though initially daunting and ''a little conspicuous,'' is proving to be a boon, Lisa Asnis said. 
 ''Prices are down and we are in a much better position to negotiate,'' she said.
 While the Asnises would have expected to be well over cost in headier times, the construction was ''very, very, very close to budget.'' 
 Stan Asnis, an orthopedic surgeon, said that building now had turned to be cost effective. ''You are getting more for what you planned on spending,'' he said. 
 Their million-dollar-plus construction includes extra trim and detail work, copper instead of aluminum gutters, and substantial savings on their cedar shake roof, tile work, painting and landscaping. 
 Cliff Fetner, owner of Jaco Builders in Hauppauge and the Asnises' builder and construction manager, said that instead of his having to chase down contractors, they are calling him, asking to bid, inquiring about upcoming projects, eager to start. 
 Labor and material prices have dipped ''anywhere from 5 to 10 percent at a minimum,'' depending on the trade. Over all, he ventured, the Asnises are getting ''30 percent more in terms of value within the existing budget.'' 
 ''Value is tremendous,'' Mr. Fetner said. ''Everybody is working on tighter margins, from the wholesaler to the local distributor to the subcontractor.'' 
 The beneficial aspects of the downturn are also being felt by developers of larger projects.
 Craig Axelrod, owner of the Emmy Building Company, which is constructing custom homes in Dix Hills and Commack, said that contractors show up ''almost before we have the roof on,'' with heating and air-conditioning crews and plumbers working simultaneously. ''When things were cranking, it would be one after the other,'' he said. 
 Elliot Monter, the president of the Westbury-based Holiday Organization, has 75 of 127 single-family lots left to sell in the Hamlet Estates at St. James, a gated community. 
 The slow building climate has enabled him to adjust his game plan and build smaller houses that are less expensive. He said he was able to bring the smaller houses onto the market in 7 months instead of the usual 9 or 10, ''partially because the design of the new homes is more cost efficient'' and because of the larger number of available plumbers, electricians and drywall crews. 
 Also, he said, subcontractors who ask for price increases are easily replaced. 
 ''People are very aggressive in their pricing right now,'' he said. ''There is so little being built that people are working very tight, they are working faster, there is less waste.'' 
 Annette Jaffe, the owner of MSM Property Development, the design firm responsible for the trim, cabinetry and finishes at the Asnises' home, said that along with savings, the economic downturn had brought back civility. 
 ''If the client says, 'I am not happy with how the finish is or how this looks,' the answer from the contractor is, 'No problem.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AHEAD OF SCHEDULE: Cliff Fetner, the owner of Jaco Builders in Hauppauge, says he has had no trouble finding contractors to work on a 5,300-square-foot home that his company is building in Sands Point.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL J. BERESWILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); COPPER MARKETS (68%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (68%); BUDGETS (68%)

COMPANY: SPECTOR GROUP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1166 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: March 29, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 JAPAN'S RICE FARMERS FEAR
 Their Future Is Shrinking
 Japanese farmers are finding it impossible to make ends meet since farms are small and rice prices have fallen far. Their troubles are emblematic of a feeling of paralysis that is gripping Japan. PAGE 6 
 KREMLIN CRITIC TO RUN FOR MAYOR
 Boris Y. Nemtsov, a longtime opposition leader, is registered as an official candidate for mayor of Sochi, a city that is commanding increasing attention since being chosen to host the 2014 Winter Olympics. PAGE 8 
 BEARING WEIGHT OF PAKISTANI HOPES 
 Since returning to the bench for the first time since he was ousted two years ago by Pervez Musharraf, then Pakistan's president, Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry has faced a groundswell of expectations from his supporters. PAGE 12 
 NATIONAL
 ROAD CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES
 Lower Prices to Win Stimulus Jobs
 Construction companies, hungry for work in the dismal economy, have slashed their prices to try to win the first round of public-works projects being paid for by the federal stimulus package. PAGE 14 
 FIRST LADY WILL SPEAK AT SCHOOL
 Michelle Obama has chosen the University of California at Merced, the smallest and newest campus in the state system, as her sole stop on the college commencement circuit. The decision came after weeks of online and old-school arm-twisting by a coterie of Merced seniors.. PAGE 14 
 FIGHT FOR THE RIGHT TO FILIBUSTER
 Republicans are in a tizzy that Democrats are threatening to use the budgetary procedure known as reconciliation to pass major bills by a simple majority vote, which would deny Republicans the filibuster. One problem for Republicans as they push back against the idea: They used the process on multiple occasions, notably when enacting more than $1 trillion in tax cuts in 2001. A Congressional Memo. PAGE 17 
 WILLING A RIVER TO STAY IN PLACE
 Frigid temperatures unexpectedly slowed the rising waters of the Red River, offering a hopeful but still uncertain sign that flooding might spare Fargo, N.D., and across the river, Moorhead, Minn. Still, the water is likely to remain at never-before-seen levels for days, gurgling precariously close to the tops of the miles and miles of dikes people have created. PAGE 18 
 NEW YORK
 FOR SOME JEWS IN NEED,
 Help in Keeping Kosher
 City Harvest, a nonprofit organization that helps feed hungry New Yorkers, and which already provides weekly deliveries to 36 kosher food programs in the city, started a new drive this month to provide kosher food, often more expensive than nonkosher food, to Jews feeling the weight of the recession during Passover. PAGE 24 
 OBITUARIES
 ARCHIE GREEN, 91
 A shipwright turned folklorist, his interest in union workers and their culture transformed the study of American folklore. He single-handedly persuaded Congress to create the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress PAGE 29 
 SPORTS
 THE REAL VOICE OF THE YANKEES CAN SOMETIMES PACK A SNARL
 In recent years, as George Steinbrenner has faded from view as the Yankees' principal owner, Randy Levine, the team's president, has emerged as the team's strongest voice. He is their executive-as-prosecutor, a tough, short-tempered and smart protector of the Steinbrenner family and the Yankees brand. PAGE 1 
 TITLE FIGHT WITHIN THE SOUTH FINAL
 The South Regional final pits last year's consensus player of the year (North Carolina's Tyler Hansbrough) and another power forward who has been racking up this year's awards (Oklahoma's Blake Griffin). In an age of quick departures to the N.B.A., having two national players of the year on the same court, playing the same position, for a berth in the Final Four would seem to be something to celebrate. PAGE 2
 Sports of the Times
 Big East: Stopover or Destination?
 Are the upper-tier Big East programs the opportunity of a lifetime for generic power coaches, or are they more a place to build a resume on the way to the dream job and score? PAGE 3 
 Week In Review
 SERVING AS SCHOLAR
 And as Witness
 Few historians achieved the stature -- either as scholars or moral figures -- as John Hope Franklin, who died last week at 94. Much of his groundbreaking writing about the history of African-Americans in the United States carried a hint of carefully managed subversion -- of meticulous, even-handed scholarship that pointed to the searing truths of racial injustice. PAGE 1
 One State's Lesson on Health Care 1 
 Editorial
 QUESTIONS FOR REFORM
 Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner sounded the right notes last week when he presented a first draft of the administration's plan to reform the financial system. He said the system had failed ''in fundamental ways'' and would require comprehensive overhaul. But it is too early to say whether a fleshed-out proposal -- and what Congress eventually passes -- will amount to a game changer. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 Op-Ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 It is natural in an economic crisis to look inward, to focus on America's own needs, but it is worth remembering that in a poor country like Haiti, the consequence of a deep recession isn't just a lost job, but sometimes a lost child. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 If Mother Nature had a Dow Jones Industrials Average, you could say that it has been breaking into new (scientific) lows. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Anonymous sources are necessary for some of the most important reporting The Times does from Washington, a city steeped in a culture of anonymity. But Times reporters face daily decisions on how to report sensitive information without fraying the bond of trust between the news media and the public. Clark Hoyt takes a look. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 FEELING TOO DOWN TO RISE UP
 Americans, we're told, are boiling over with rage about the economic crisis, but why haven't there been public protests or even riots? What's keeping the lid on unrest, writes Sudhir Venkatesh in an Op-Ed essay, is our shame over the personal debts that helped get us into this mess. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 This Weekend
 Sunday Styles
 Sean Avery's Catwalk
 On and Off the Ice
 Sean Avery, a left wing for the New York Rangers, has a fashion sense off the ice that is even sharper, perhaps, than David Beckham's. He has worked as an intern at Vogue and has twice led the National Hockey League in penalty minutes. He has a reputation as a talented player, but one despised by many others in the league for his dangerously unpredictable mouth and impeccable taste in Dries Van Noten suits. PAGE 1 
 Arts & Leisure A Ballplayer Seeks a Hit Film
 Like the N.B.A. for America's inner cities, baseball for Dominicans is viewed as the quickest and most glamorous route out of poverty, which in that country is as hard to ignore as the Caribbean Sea. The film ''Sugar'' tells the story of a ballplayer drafted by a minor-league team in Iowa and the struggles, victories and losses of going through that process. PAGE 11
 Fast and Furious Again 11 
 Travel
 Hanging 10 in Barbados
 Tucked in the southern corner of the Lesser Antilles, the west coast of Barbados, known as the Platinum Coast, is famous for powdery beaches, sparkling water, manicured estates, resorts and golf courses. But the eastern side of the island, with its sugar cane fields and thick forests, is Barbados's rougher side, and it has become a magnet for surfers. 
 PAGE 1 
 Views That Inspired Weston 8 
 Sunday Business
 Facebook, Turning 5, Copes With Growing Pains
 Sometime this week, Facebook, born in a dorm room at Harvard five years ago, will register its 200 millionth user. As the site expands at staggering rates, it's also struggling to match the momentum of new start-ups like Twitter while justifying its hype-carbonated valuation. PAGE 1 
 NO PEANUTS WITH CHEAP AIRFARE
 Spirit Airline's specialty is the supercheap ticket, sometimes going for as little as $9 one way. But the airline says its only obligation to customers is getting them safely from Point A to Point B. Everything else is extra. PAGE 1 
 Automobiles
 Hamilton Goes the Distance
 Lewis Hamilton, 23, is the youngest driver to win the Formula One world championship. Adding to the historic significance is the fact that he is the son of an English mother and a father whose family migrated to Britain from Grenada, altering the profile of the typical grand prix driver. But with title in hand, Hamilton faces a challenging '09 season. PAGE 1 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); RICE FARMING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); POLITICS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAYORS (77%); OLYMPICS (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (69%); SHIPBUILDING (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); TAX LAW (63%); FOLKLORE (62%); PASSOVER (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (56%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (53%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1167 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Totaled?

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Inside the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
Of all the various forms of corporate subsidy that the American taxpayer is now being asked to shoulder (bailouts for swaggering investment bankers and insurers, lifelines for overextended homeowners and the mortgage lenders who took advantage of them), perhaps none evoke such complicated emotions in Washington as the comparatively modest plea of General Motors. This is not simply because of its size, but also because G.M. is bound up with our collective identity, both national and personal. No congressman looks back wistfully at the first batch of securitized mortgages he bought with his hard-earned savings during his teenage years or to losing his virginity in the back of his father's trading floor. Probably no senator thinks back nostalgically to the beloved uncle who proudly broke his back every day for 40 years working in the reinsurance business. To a lot of politicians and White House aides, G.M. isn't simply another failing company looking for a handout; it's as much a symbol of middle-class aspiration as the tract house and the Disneyland vacation. 
 Of course, this deep familiarity we have with G.M. and its cars can cut the other way too. Recently, as politicians back in Washington were discussing a first round of public loans for the automakers, I rented a Pontiac in Southern California. I soon found myself trapped like Houdini in the awkwardly tilted cockpit, peering around blind spots the size of billboards. By the time I reached my destination, I was marveling at the gall of a company that would make such a thing and then ask for my largess when it turned out to be unprofitable. 
 Such visceral reactions to the fate of G.M. may surface again in Congress this week as the government decides whether to extend G.M. another $16 billion in federal loans or to nudge the company into some kind of orderly bankruptcy. On one side of the debate are those elected leaders, primarily Republicans, who preach the primacy of markets, especially representatives who hail from the rural states where G.M.'s foreign competitors now provide thousands of highly coveted, nonunion jobs. This group contends that G.M. will never be able to right itself unless it can renegotiate its untenable agreements with workers, debtors and dealers. On the other side are mostly Democrats who see themselves as champions of the workingman, led by politicians whose industrial states, Michigan chief among them, stand to lose thousands of their remaining union jobs if G.M. goes under. They argue that the collapse of G.M. would spread like a tsunami through the rest of the already-imperiled industrial economy.
 Until recently, at least, General Motors itself has resisted bankruptcy with the same single-minded desperation with which most able-bodied men resist driving a minivan. This is not only because bankruptcy would wipe out G.M.'s shareholders -- some of whom, coincidentally, are the executives who run the company -- but also because G.M. believes that going under would mortally wound its brand. The thinking here is that no one would risk buying a car, not to mention a service warranty, from a company attached to the words ''Chapter 11.''
 This argument underscores the deeper problem afflicting G.M. over a period of decades now -- not simply soaring labor costs or global competition but also an inability to grasp underlying changes in American culture. There probably was a time when a well-publicized bankruptcy would, in fact, have destroyed the viability of a brand. But in the 20 years since Silicon Valley start-ups began transforming the workplace, younger Americans -- in other words, those who now make up the heart of the consumer market -- have largely dispensed with the mythology of the infallible institution. Transparency and reinvention, rather than stability and regality, are the more valued assets in an economy where entrepreneurs expect to stumble more often than they succeed and where employees expect to have to change jobs (if not careers) multiple times. In the fastest-growing quarters of the economy, admitting your failures and remaking yourself is the new American work ethic. 
 You need only look at the politics of the digital age to see how powerful this narrative can be. Unlike their predecessors, who went to great effort to hide character flaws from the voters, our last two presidents admitted stunning personal failings -- one effectively owned up to a sex addiction, the other to an indulgence for drinking -- and found voters more sympathetic rather than less. (In George W. Bush's case, it was the opposite inclination, his refusal to admit to mistakes in Iraq and to remake policy accordingly, that ultimately led to the undoing of his presidency.) Al Gore, forced to declare a kind of political bankruptcy after the 2000 election, reinvented himself as an environmental crusader and walked off with the Nobel Prize. 
 No doubt there are practical hurdles to a G.M. bankruptcy; surely the government would have to help protect workers and minimize economic fallout. But it might just be that modern car-buyers would be more willing to give a reconstituted G.M. a hearing. They might have more faith, not less, in a warranty or service contract issued by a restructured, government-backed G.M. than they do now, with the fate of the company constantly in doubt. In fact, the process of publicly admitting failure and rebooting itself for a new century might be the only way for G.M. to redeem itself in the eyes of a generation of consumers who came of age in the back seats of Hondas and Nissans.
 If, instead, politicians intervene once again to spare the company they remember as a symbol of American greatness, they may yet succeed in cementing G.M. as a symbol of something else: the culture of intransigent institutions that is, for most Americans, receding in the rearview mirror. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOMONTAGE BY MATTHEW PORTER) CHART: DOWN SHIFT: Annual net income of General Motors: (SOURCE: GENERAL MOTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); SECURITIZATION (73%); REINSURANCE (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1168 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: How Crisis Shapes the Corporate Model

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
EVER since the financial crisis broke in earnest last September, history has been mined for nuggets of insight. The Great Depression, the Panic of 1907, Japan's lost decade of the 1990s, the Swedish banking crash in the late 1990s, and so on. Each time, though, the focus has tended to be on the lessons learned for economic policy and theory.
 Let's try a different lens. How have past crises shaped management thinking and strategy? Innovation in management, after all, is adaptive. Management is not a science, like physics, with immutable laws and testable theories. Instead, management, at its best, is an intelligent response to outside forces, often disruptive ones. 
 Times of severe economic duress, management experts say, can serve to sharply accelerate trends already under way. 
 The Depression and its immediate aftermath, they say, was such a catalyst for forces already in motion. The main development, they note, was the rise of the modern multidivisional enterprise like General Electric, DuPont and General Motors. It was made possible by the mature technologies of transportation and communication -- railroads, the telephone and the telegraph.
 The technologies made it possible to monitor and coordinate business operations as never before. And the Depression made it imperative for managers to achieve efficient economies of scale to tap national markets, ensuring corporate survival amid a downward spiral in total demand. 
 A modern version of that kind of technology-aided shift in management practice and corporate organization could be in the offing, says John Hagel III, the co-director of the Deloitte Center for Edge Innovation, a research arm of the consulting firm.
 The sharp downturn, according to Mr. Hagel, will force companies to go beyond simple cost-cutting to take a hard look at the economics of their businesses. Most companies, he says, are actually bundles of three different businesses: infrastructure management, product and service development and commercialization, and customer relations.
 The current crisis, Mr. Hagel says, opens the door to ''an unbundling of the corporation'' to achieve greater efficiency and profitability. The trend, he notes, is already exemplified by specialist companies that focus on particular infrastructure fields. In logistics, Mr. Hagel says, many companies farm out those chores to Federal Express and U.P.S.; in call centers, he points to Convergys; and in contract manufacturing, to Flextronics.
 Of the three business areas, new product development is the one that lends itself not to size, but to small creative teams, and thus is the most difficult for large corporations. Mr. Hagel cites Procter & Gamble as a big company that understands the benefits of unbundling. It has set a goal of getting half its new-product innovations from outside the company, through licensing and collaboration with partners. And P.& G., Mr. Hagel says, has invested heavily in Web technology and clever software to analyze and nurture customer relations.
 To Mr. Hagel, such developments look like an Internet-era rerun of the corporate transformation of the 1930s and '40s. ''We're facing the potential to have that play out again -- this time with digital infrastructures that allow companies to organize and manage their activities in new ways,'' he said.
 Manufacturing innovations and distribution patterns have been powerfully shaped by economic shifts. Japan's just-in-time, lean manufacturing system, management experts note, was an adaptation to postwar poverty, a shortage of capital and scarce land for factories, while pro-market policies in China and India opened the door to globalization.
 There may well be a different pattern of global production and distribution when the world economy emerges from the current crisis, says George Stalk, senior adviser to the Boston Consulting Group. Assuming that long-term oil prices average $80 a barrel or so, and that roads, ports and airports continue to be congested, smaller factories closer to home -- in the Midwest or Mexico, for example -- may be more economical and flexible than those in Asia. ''For a lot of goods, China will no longer be the preferred source,'' Mr. Stalk said.
 Times of turmoil also bring changes in social attitudes and politics, which ripple into new management practices. Labor unions, for example, rose to prominence during the Depression. Unions brought large companies a needed dose of industrial stability, as the earlier ideological wars between labor and capital receded. If the workers were less likely to be radicals, the days of robber-baron owners were in eclipse as well.
 Their power was supplanted by ''a new subspecies of economic man -- the salaried manager,'' wrote Alfred D. Chandler Jr., in his Pulitzer Prize-winning history, ''The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business'' (Harvard, 1977). Chandler called the model ''managerial capitalism,'' and the role of management was to balance the interests of a diverse group of stakeholders including workers, government and shareholders.
 That model held sway until the 1980s, when the stagnation of economic growth and corporate profits of the 1970s brought a narrowed focus on stock-market returns as the primary measure of management performance. In politics, the Reagan revolution decreed that government was not the solution, but the problem.
 TODAY, the pendulum is swinging back to a model in which corporations will be regarded more as social organizations, whose obligations extend well beyond Wall Street, according to Rakesh Khurana, a professor at Harvard Business School. He says that in seeking government aid, the automakers portray themselves as ''pillars of their communities and pillars of American manufacturing, not purely economic entities.''
 ''The narrative for corporate America has changed,'' Professor Khurana observed. ''Government is not seen in opposition to the firm, but as a partner.'' 
 Such swings, it seems, are the norm historically. ''If there's an ideology of management,'' he said, ''it is pragmatism.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Corporations seeking to become leaner could turn to companies like Flextronics, a manufacturer-for-hire. Above is a Flextronics assembly line in Hungary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BELA DOKA/ANZENBERGER, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 After the Great Depression, the American railroad system was among several forces that helped to build huge and wide-ranging companies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1946) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRENDS (88%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (86%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (75%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); CALL CENTERS (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); DELOITTE LLP (54%); CONVERGYS CORP (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (55%); CVG (NYSE) (51%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); SWEDEN (91%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1169 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: New York Region's Wineries Plan Spring Events

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY

 BODY:
The weather is warming, and vineyards and tasting rooms in the region are preparing to greet wine-lovers with events in April and May.
 ''The snow is gone. A lot of people want to get out and do something,'' said Hilary H. Criollo, the president of Hopkins Vineyard in Warren, Conn. Ms. Criollo said there was some worry that the recession would reduce traffic to her tasting room but she was optimistic that economic conditions would send people to local wineries.
 For many winemakers, spring is a time to sample from barrels to gauge quality. 
 ''As a winemaker, it's an exciting time, ''said Michael J. Migliore, president of the Hudson Valley Wine and Grape Growers Association. ''You start seeing the results of last year.''
 At the new Laurita Winery in New Egypt, N.J., the owners said their first spring would be full of local music and art.
 ''Now with the weather warming up, we have to figure out a way to take care of two crowds -- one inside and one outside,'' said Raymond F. Shea, a Laurita co-owner.
 For those who are simply curious about wine, early spring is a good time to learn more about winemaking because smaller crowds mean workers have more time to talk with visitors, owners said. Here are some wine events in the region in the coming weeks. More events can be found at the Web sites provided under each area.
 Long Island
 Each Saturday in April, Long Island wineries will be offering visitors the opportunity to taste a range of wines from the 2007 red vintage directly from the barrel. A sunny, dry season had growers excited for that year's reds. The tastings will allow wine lovers to preview the wines before they are available to the public in 2010. Some wineries will offer special tours and dining events. 
 In May, a similar promotion will focus on roses from 2008. 
 Details on participating wineries and other offers, including hotel and bed and breakfast participation, are available at the Web site for the Long Island Wine Council, liwines.com.
 Hudson River Region
 Wineries along the Shawangunk Wine Trail, on the western side of the Hudson, will celebrate spring and bud-break by pairing wines with pasta dishes on April 18 and 19 during their Pasta Primo-Vino! event. Tickets are $20 in advance and $25 during the event. Taxes are extra. The price of a ticket includes tastes of up to five wines per winery and pasta sampling. 
 The trail's 10 family-owned wineries will participate, and some will offer newly released wines to accompany the food. Details on those wineries are available at shawangunkwinetrail.com. The Web site hudsonvalleywinecountry.org promotes the region's wine, history, culture and dining and has an interactive map of the valley's more than 25 wineries.
 New Jersey
 Most New Jersey wineries feature weekend music year-round and in early spring focus on May events, starting with Mother's Day and especially Memorial Day, said Rich Small, the marketing administrator for the Garden State Wine Growers Association.
 In New Egypt, Laurita Winery, which opened last summer, is featuring Stringzville, an acoustic jazz band on April 19. Tickets are $15 each and can be purchased on the winery's Web site, lauritawinery.com, which lists other events, too. 
 On May 23 and 24, wineries will be at the New Jersey Blues and Wine Festival in Natirar Park in Somerset County. Tickets are $18 and can be bought online starting in May at newjerseywines.com or at the festival for $20, Mr. Small said. That Web site is also the site for the wine growers association, which regularly posts events for member wineries.
 Connecticut
 Many Connecticut wineries plan to offer barrel tastings in April and May, said Jamie Jones, president of the Connecticut Vineyard and Winery Association. Events for various wineries can be found by going to the association's Web site, ctwine.com, which is also the Web site for the Connecticut Wine Trail.
 At Hopkins Vineyard in Warren, the owners are preparing for their 30th annual barrel tasting on May 16 and 17. It will feature samples from the latest vintages, along with food and music. Admission at the door is $25 a person or $22 with a discount postcard, obtainable through the winery's Web site, hopkinsvineyard.com. Tickets bought directly through the Web site are $20 a person.
 The Connecticut Farm Wine Development Council is holding a ''passport'' promotion beginning in May for a trip to tour wineries in Spain. Under the program, visitors get a booklet stamped at participating wineries along the Connecticut Wine Trail. Mr. Jones, of the winery association, said 14 stamps are needed to participate in the December drawing for the trip, which includes round-trip airfare for two and one-room double occupancy. Details are available at ctwine.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (92%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1170 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; YANKEE STADIUM; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Outside the Stadium, a Look Into the Future

BYLINE: By REBECCA FLINT MARX

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, Michael Gartland and Rob Weiss went to Yankee Stadium searching for memories of Bucky Dent. 
 Armed with a video camera, they planned to make a 20-minute documentary commemorating the 30th anniversary of Dent's historic 1978 home run in a one-game playoff against the Red Sox in Boston. But when they started talking to people who lived and worked around the stadium in the Bronx, they discovered that most minds were on the future rather than the past. 
 ''We started asking people what they thought of the new stadium and how it was going to change the neighborhood,'' Mr. Gartland recalled. ''And we realized when we were looking at the footage that that was a much more compelling story.'' 
 And so Mr. Gartland, a reporter at The Bergen Record, and Mr. Weiss, a filmmaker, began work on a documentary called ''Yankeeland: In the Shadow of the Stadium.'' The feature-length film, which the two hope to have finished shortly after the new stadium opens with exhibition games on April 3 and 4, consists largely of interviews with visitors to the stadium and the locals who make their living off them. A trailer for the film can be seen on the Web site www.shadowofthestadium.com. 
 The filmmakers met many of their subjects on the street, among them Keith Nicholson, the 30-something owner of Homebase, a memorabilia store on 157th Street, who grew up selling pickled hard-boiled eggs near the ballpark, and a fan named Freddie Ciccone, who boasts that he ''got thrown in Yankees jail twice.'' 
 Most of their subjects, Mr. Gartland said, were Yankee fans, and all had opinions about the new stadium that they were happy to share.
 ''A lot of people,'' Mr. Weiss said, ''were like: 'What's wrong with the old stadium? We're in tight times right now, like, how can we justify this extravagance?' We got that a lot.''
 Often, talking about the Yankees led to the telling of much deeper stories. One woman, unprompted, spoke of her continuing struggle with cancer; others reminisced about childhoods shaped by poverty amid the playoffs.
 Although the film touches on the discrepancy between the resources lavished upon the new stadium and the economic distress of the surrounding neighborhood, the work is not intended as a political statement, its creators say.
 Still, Mr. Gartland said, ''You talk to a 15-year-old student in the South Bronx telling you about having to take classes in trailers and not having a playground, and why are they spending so much money on a ballpark?''
 And while neither filmmaker grew up near the stadium -- Mr. Gartland spent part of his childhood in Co-op City, and Mr. Weiss grew up in Pittsburgh -- both have developed a lasting affection for the neighborhood and the people who gave them access to their lives. 
 ''At this point we go there and people are waving us down, stopping their cars,'' Mr. Weiss said.
 Mr. Gartland added: ''It's not our neighborhood; we're just there doing our project. But it's kind of cool that people aren't turning around and walking the other way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''A lot of people were like: 'What's wrong with the old stadium? We're in tight times right now,' '' said Rob Weiss, near left.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1171 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Lining Up Interviews Is Just the Beginning

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
Q. You have had several job interviews at different companies, but still no job offers. Are you doing something wrong?
 A. You may not be doing anything wrong. This is a highly competitive job market, and even if you have 9 out of 10 qualifications for a position, an employer may be in a position to find 10 out of 10, said Paul Powers, a management psychologist in Wellesley, Mass., and the author of ''Winning Job Interviews.''
 Remember that ''the essential nature of an active job hunt, while you're unemployed, is rejection,'' Dr. Powers said. ''If you're not getting rejected enough, you're not working hard enough.'' 
 In fact, your ability to obtain interviews is a sign that you are doing something right -- sending out a resume and cover letter that appeal to hiring managers. And that's no small feat when hundreds and even thousands of people may be applying for the same job.
 That said, you should conduct your own ''post-interview review'' to see whether there is room for improvement, Dr. Powers said.
 (First, of course, make sure that you are washing and combing your hair, dressing appropriately, arriving on time, turning off your cellphone and performing all the other basics of making a good impression.) 
 Most companies interview the same candidate more than once -- sometimes many times. If, on numerous occasions, you have never made it past the first interview, ''there's probably something going on in your interview strategy that's not leading to that second interview,'' said Barbara Safani, owner of Career Solvers, a career management firm in New York. 
 Q. What could be wrong with your interview strategy?
 A. For one thing, you may be sending out brilliant applications for jobs that aren't a good fit for you, Dr. Powers said. Don't let a sense of panic cause you to cast your net too wide -- it wastes time on both ends.
 Even if you are a wonderful candidate, you may be answering questions in a less-than-ideal way. Some people ''believe that talking in generalities is the way to go,'' Ms. Safani said, but hiring managers usually prefer specifics -- especially examples of how you executed a project or solved a problem. Otherwise, you don't differentiate yourself and you become a mere blur, she said.
 In addition to these ''stories of success,'' candidates need to be able ''to communicate in 30 seconds what they're all about and how they're going to add value to that organization,'' Ms. Safani said. 
 If you are questioned about your weaknesses, ''be authentic without being damaging,'' Ms. Safani said. Be ready with an example of a weakness that is not centered on the core competencies of the job you are seeking, she said. 
 And, of course, be prepared to ask questions yourself -- ones that show you have done research about the company. Ms. Safani recommends asking some questions that go beyond the particular job you are applying for, and that cover the direction of the company as a whole. 
 Q. Looking back, you know that you gave stupid answers to some interview questions. What now?
 A. View it as a learning experience and move on, Dr. Powers said. Eventually, it becomes clear that the same 20 or 30 questions tend to be asked, he said, and you can practice your answers to them -- perhaps in mock interviews with family, friends or members of a networking group. 
 It may be a mistake to start out by applying for a job at the company you most want to work for, he said; you may want to practice your interviewing skills at a less-desirable company first.
 Q. What if you interviewer is unprepared?
 A. First, never assume that the interviewer has read your resume or even has a copy of it. Always bring extra copies with you. 
 ''If the person's not prepared, that's actually an advantage, because it allows you to take control of the interview'' and showcase your stories of success, Ms. Safani said.
 Take the opportunity to ask questions about the job and the company, and answer even poorly formed questions with enthusiasm and specificity, drawing on the extensive research you have done. 
 Q. What should you do at the end of the interview? 
 A. Use the close of the interview to reaffirm that you are interested in the job and are highly qualified for it, Dr. Powers said.
 Then ask what the next steps are. Unfortunately, it is common for companies to delay or even halt their hiring plans without letting candidates know, Ms. Safani said; if you don't hear anything within the time frame specified in your interview, you have a legitimate reason to call the hiring manager. But don't leave multiple messages; just try to get the person on the phone once -- you don't want to be a pest. 
 Q. Should you send a thank-you note? 
 A. Generally, yes. If your main communications have been via e-mail, an e-mailed thank-you note of a few paragraphs -- reiterating your qualifications and your interest -- is fine, Dr. Powers said. You can also send a thank-you note via regular mail -- on better than copy-quality paper, he said. But don't send a handwritten note unless you have perfect penmanship, he advised. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (90%); WRITERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1172 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3460 words

HEADLINE: Reinventing America's Cities: The Time Is Now

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
THE country has fallen on hard times, but those of us who love cities know we have been living in the dark ages for a while now. We know that turning things around will take more than just pouring money into shovel-ready projects, regardless of how they might boost the economy. Windmills won't do it either. We long for a bold urban vision. 
 With their crowded neighborhoods and web of public services, cities are not only invaluable cultural incubators; they are also vastly more efficient than suburbs. But for years they have been neglected, and in many cases forcibly harmed, by policies that favored sprawl over density and conformity over difference.
 Such policies have caused many of our urban centers to devolve into generic theme parks and others, like Detroit, to decay into ghost towns. They have also sparked the rise of ecologically unsustainable gated communities and reinforced economic disparities by building walls between racial, ethnic and class groups. 
 Correcting this imbalance will require a radical adjustment in how we think of cities and government's role in them. At times it will mean destruction rather than repair. And it demands listening to people who have spent the last decade imagining and in many cases planning for more sustainable, livable and socially just cities.
 The changes needed may seem extravagant, but they are not impossible. Many of those who see the current economic crisis as a chance to rebuild the country's infrastructure have pointed to previous major government public works projects, like Franklin D. Roosevelt's Works Projects Administration in the 1930s and 1940s and Dwight D. Eisenhower's 1956 National Interstate and Defense Highways Act, as a reminder of what this country was once capable of.
 Although the W.P.A. is mostly associated with rural dams and roadways, there's hardly a city in America where it didn't leave its mark, from riverfront parks to schools and housing projects. 
 Eisenhower's investment in highways was equally audacious, but its effect on cities has not always been positive; in many ways the Highways Act set the stage for decades during which suburban interests trumped urban ones. 
 Inspired by the German autobahn, which Eisenhower saw firsthand during World War II, the program was an attempt to retool the country's immense military-industrial complex for a peacetime economy. Creating thousands of miles of intercity highways, the program fueled America's postwar car culture and suburban sprawl, in addition to changing permanently the way towns and cities have evolved.
 Most notably it accelerated certain seismic cultural shifts born of the cold war and the civil rights era by creating the means by which middle-class families would flee perceived urban threats -- racial friction, potential Soviet bombs -- for the supposed security of the suburbs. In many cities intracity highways became dividing lines between white and black. 
 In New Orleans, for example, the 10 Freeway bulldozed through one of the city's most vibrant African-American communities, becoming a psychological barrier between the black middle-class Treme neighborhood and the tourist-infested French Quarter. The Santa Monica Freeway, built around the same time, walled off poor African-American areas like Crenshaw and South Central from the rest of the city to the north. 
 By the early 1980s, when both President Obama and I were in college, the anti-big-government, pro-privatization rhetoric of the Reagan years was catching on, and the entire notion of public spending, let alone spending on large public works projects, was becoming passe. 
 In many major cities this void was filled by private developers, who began refurbishing parks and old historic quarters. The result was sanitized versions of real cities organized around themed districts, convention centers and sports complexes. Meanwhile the roads, bridges and sewer systems that held these cities together were allowed to disintegrate.
 At the same time Europe and Asia began to supplant America as places where visions of the future were being built. The European Union spent decades building one of the most efficient networks of high-speed trains in the world, a railway that has unified the continent while leading to the cultural revival of cities like Brussels and Lille. And environmental standards for new construction were not only encouraged, they became the law -- and have been for more than a decade.
 This investment in traditional large-scale infrastructure projects is increasingly being coupled with serious thinking about the future of cities themselves. The Swedish government recently began a promising competition for a design that would replace a decrepit 1930s-era bridge in the heart of Stockholm with a seamless system of locks, roadways and shops. In Madrid the government is completing a plan to bury a four-mile strip of freeway underground and cover it up with parks and new housing. And only a few weeks ago the French government concluded a nine-month study on the future of metropolitan Paris. The study, which included some of Europe's most celebrated architects, is the first phase in a plan to create a more sustainable, socially integrated model of ''the post-Kyoto city.''
 Even China, a country where centralized planning often looks like a grotesque parody of American postwar development, is beginning to move toward more sustainable, dense urban models. The government recently announced an $88 billion plan for freight and passenger trains that will link every major urban center along the country's coast, from Beijing to the Pearl River Delta. And it is building miles of subway lines in booming cities like Shenzhen and Guangzhou.
 The problem in America is not a lack of ideas. It is a tendency to equate any large-scale government construction project, no matter how thoughtful, with the most brutal urban renewal tactics of the 1950s. One result has been that pioneering projects that skillfully blend basic infrastructure with broader urban needs like housing and park space are usually killed in their infancy. Another is that we now have an archaic and grotesquely wasteful federal system in which upkeep for roads, subways, housing, public parkland and our water supply are all handled separately.
 With money now available to invest again in such basic needs, I'd like to look at four cities representing a range of urban challenges and some of the plans available to address them. Though none of the plans are ideal as they stand today (and some of them represent only the germ of an idea), evaluated and addressed together as part of a coordinated effort, they could begin to form a blueprint for making our cities more efficient, sustainable and livable. 
 New Orleans
 In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina architects and urban planners all over the country began a spirited investigation of how to make New Orleans safer and more sustainable. The nonprofit Urban Land Institute, devoted to urban issues, presented a report a few months after the storm, based purely on the city's topography, that proposed returning some of its most devastated low-lying areas to wetlands and concentrating more housing on higher ground -- a plan that would, among other things, reduce the burden on the levees and canals that protect the city from storms.
 At the same time local architects and preservationists began a campaign to preserve the layers of historical fabric that had been damaged by or lost in the storm, including downtown's Art Deco Charity Hospital, some early Modernist schools, New Deal-era public housing and the Ninth Ward's shotgun houses, as well as the Spanish-influenced architecture of the French Quarter.
 Even some private developers seemed to understand the importance of balancing social and environmental concerns. Sean Cummings, a local developer, has proposed a master plan for a six-mile-long park on a site along the city's riverfront, currently a strip of decrepit wharfs, abandoned warehouses and parking lots.
 Designed by a formidable team of architects that includes Enrique Norten, George Hargreaves, Alex Krieger and Allen Eskew, the proposal is a model of how to knit together conflicting urban realities. A matrix of public parks, outdoor markets and mid-rise residential towers is woven through the existing fabric of old warehouses. Landscaped boulevards would extend from the park into a mix of working-class and gentrified neighborhoods. What's more, concentrating more housing on high land along the river fit nicely with the Urban Land Institute's vision for a more sustainable city. 
 So far none of these initiatives have achieved much traction. Local communities attacked (understandably) the institute's plan as insensitive to the populations it sought to relocate. Subsequently the idea of adjusting the city's footprint in any way became politically toxic, and Mayor C. Ray Nagin quickly made it clear that the city's redevelopment would be left in the hands of private interests.
 Mr. Cummings has received $30 million in federal funds for the first phase of his riverfront plan. But the money is solely for park construction, and so far the project doesn't include the subsidized housing that would prevent it from becoming an enclave for upper-middle-class whites.
 Meanwhile the Department of Housing and Urban Development recently began bulldozing thousands of units of New Deal-era public housing over the objections of many local activists, while the Army Corps of Engineers is shoring up existing canals and levees as if the city were going to grow back to its original size -- something no sane person believes. 
 Even so, the fate of New Orleans has yet to be determined. Many of the city's low-lying areas are as barren now as they were a week after the storm. And it's still possible to imagine a more sustainable, socially inclusive city, one that could serve as a model as powerful and far reaching as the American subdivisions of the 1950s. For that to happen, however, a range of government agencies would need to work together to come up with a more coordinated plan. 
 Los Angeles
 Los Angeles has not suffered the trauma of New Orleans, but it is a city famously devoid of a functioning public transportation network and public parkland. These deficiencies will only become more glaring as the city's population continues to boom.
 As far back as the 1930s Frederick Law Olmsted Jr. proposed digging up parts of the Los Angeles River's concrete bed and transforming its banks into a necklace of parks that would extend most of the 51 miles from the San Fernando Valley through downtown Los Angeles to Long Beach and provide green space for some of the city's poorest neighborhoods.
 Almost 70 years later the Los Angeles City Council, prodded by a mix of local advocates and architects, revived that vision. Recognizing that the river has become both an industrial blight and an impenetrable barrier between the Latino neighborhoods of East Los Angeles and the white enclaves of downtown, the council developed a plan that would tear out part of the concrete bed and return it to its natural state, while repaving other areas in stone. At some points the sides of the riverbed would step down to allow for landscaped walkways. Parks and bike paths would be built along the banks. 
 So far, however, there is little money to pursue the plan. About $6 million in state grants to help develop the greenway were postponed in December. And so far the federal government has allotted only enough money for the Corps of Engineers, which oversees the river, to continue a feasibility study for concrete removal.
 According to Ed P. Reyes, a member of the City Council and a major sponsor of the plan, an investment of $100 million would allow the city to complete a significant section of the plan near downtown, which would provide valuable parkland to one of the city's poorest neighborhoods and also offer the public a tangible example of the project's transformative power.
 Wilshire Boulevard is another favorite cause for the architects and city planners of Los Angeles. In the early 1990s Frank Gehry and I took a drive down the city's once-great commercial spine, which stretches 16 miles from downtown Los Angeles to Santa Monica. 
 Mr. Gehry guided me through the range of communities that the boulevard intersects, from the Latino neighborhoods near MacArthur Park to Koreatown to the many cultural institutions that include the Wiltern Theater, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Hammer Museum. The philanthropist Eli Broad is currently planning yet another museum at the corner of Wilshire and Santa Monica Boulevards in Beverly Hills.
 Mr. Gehry suggested that by concentrating more public transportation and cultural institutions along this thoroughfare, Los Angeles might finally find its center, both geographically and socially. 
 He is not alone in this fantasy. Los Angeles has the most talented cluster of architects practicing anywhere in the United States, and at one point or another most of them have invested significant brain power in figuring out how to remake Wilshire Boulevard. Michael Maltzan has looked at how new public school construction could be connected to the public transportation network along Wilshire, a plan that not only would be cost effective but also could begin healing some of the city's deep class divisions.
 There was an ideal moment, about a decade ago, when this vision might have taken hold; the county's Metropolitan Transit Authority was just then in the midst of constructing a federally financed multibillion-dollar metro system, including a line that would have run the length of Wilshire Boulevard. The Los Angeles Unified School District was building scores of new schools. And the city's rapid growth had led to a boom in new development.
 Work on the metro ground to a halt several years ago after costs spiraled out of control, and when it was discovered that the district's flagship school had been built on a toxic waste site, the agency quickly scaled back its goals.
 Now a new mayor, Antonio Villaraigosa, is trying to revive the idea of expanding the metro. Without an overhaul of the city's transportation network it is only a matter of time before the city breaks down, a victim of pollution and overcongestion. A citywide plan that anchored Los Angeles along two major axes -- the green river and the asphalt boulevard -- could save it from becoming a third world city. 
 The Bronx
 Smaller projects too can have a powerful impact on a region's identity. In the South Bronx the nonprofit Pratt Center for Community Developmenthas been fighting to demolish parts of the Sheridan and Bruckner Expressways. The Sheridan, which forms a barrier between poor Puerto Rican and Dominican communities in the South Bronx and the Bronx River, was a particular brutal example of Robert Moses' urban renewal projects. Had it been completed, it would have torn through part of the Bronx Zoo.
 When state officials unveiled a plan in 1997 to expand the expressway's entry ramps, easing truck traffic to the city's commercial food markets, the community rebelled, and Pratt began to develop a counterplan that would dismantle the expressway altogether and free up 28 acres of land. More specifically, the plan would extend local streets across the site to a new riverfront park, provide up to 1,200 units of affordable housing, create a new sewage facility and restore wetlands along the river. Commercial development could be linked to a planned commuter train station. 
 Not long ago the state agreed to consider the plan. But even if the plan is adopted, it is not yet clear who would pay for one of its most critical components, the housing, which in the past would have simply been turned over to private developers. What is more, the plan essentially remains a sketch; it still lacksthe design elements that could bring it fully to life.
 Buffalo
 Perhaps the most intriguing test case for reimagining our failing cities is in Buffalo, where the federal government is pressing ahead with a plan to expand its border crossing facilities. The city was once a center of architectural experimentation, with landmarks by virtually every great American architect of the late 19th and early 20th century. Frederick Law Olmsted Sr., the father of American landscaping, created a string of elegant public parks intended for the city's factory workers.
 Like other Rust Belt cities, Buffalo began its decline more than a half-century ago, a victim of failing industries and suburban flight. Large sections of Olmsted's parks and boulevards were demolished; an elevated expressway sliced through one of these parks, cutting it off from the riverfront; many of downtown's once-proud buildings were left abandoned. 
 Yet rather than reverse that trend, the government now seems determined to accelerate it. The Homeland Security Department is planning to expand an area at the entry to the Peace Bridge to make room for new inspection facilities and parking. That plan would require the demolition of five and a half blocks in a diverse working-class neighborhood with a rich architectural history, from late-19th-century Italianate mansions to modest two-family homes built in the 1920s.
 Local preservationists argue that protecting the city's historic neighborhoods is fundamental to the city's survival. Pointing out that bridge traffic is steadily shrinking, they are pressing the government to upgrade the train system and dismantle parts of the elevated freeway to allow better access to the riverfront. Not only would they like to see Olmsted's late-19th-century vision restored; they would also like to see it joined to a more comprehensive vision for the city's future.
 At this point there is no concrete plan to counter the government's, but the potential is great. The city's architectural fabric is rich. It has an active grass-roots preservation movement. And few sites better sum up the challenges of trying to save a shrinking city. I for one would love to see what a talented architect could accomplish if his imagination were given free rein over such a promising site.
 Getting the projects I've described off the ground is not as impossible as it may seem. Only last week the federal Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development announced the creation of an urban task force that would promote the development of sustainable communities linked to public transportation -- a small but encouraging step in advancing a more integrated approach to urban growth. 
 In September the White House and Congress will also have a rare opportunity to rethink the antiquated transportation authorization bill, which comes up for review once every six years and funnels hundreds of billions of dollars each year into highway construction and repairs. 
 Given that the administration has already made sustainability a priority, that money could be redirected to other projects, like efforts that reinforce density rather than encourage urban sprawl. It could be used to replace crumbling expressways with the kind of local roads and parks that bind communities together rather than tear them apart.
 I am also a fan of a National Infrastructure Bank, an idea that was first proposed by the financiers Felix Rohatyn and Everett Ehrlich. 
 The bank would function something like a domestic World Bank, financing large-scale undertakings like subways, airports and harbor improvements. Presumably it would be able to funnel money into the more sustainable, forward-looking projects. It could also establish a review process similar to the one created by the government's General Services Administration in the mid-1990s, which attracted some of the country's best talents to design federal courthouses and office buildings. Lavishing similar attention on bridges, pump stations, trains, public housing and schools would not only be a significant step in rebuilding a sense of civic pride; it would also prove that our society values the public infrastructure that binds us together as much as it values, say, sheltering the rich.
 A half-century ago American engineering was the envy of the rest of the world. Cities like New York, Los Angeles and New Orleans were considered models for a brilliant new future. Europe, with its suffocating traditions and historical baggage, was dismissed as a decadent, aging culture.
 It is no small paradox that many people in the world now see us in similar terms.
 President Obama has a rare opportunity to build a new, more enlightened version of this country, one rooted in his own egalitarian ideals. It is an opportunity that may not come around again.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about projects that would reinvent American cities misstated the name of Franklin D. Roosevelt's public works program. It was the Work Projects Administration, not the Works Projects Administration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Los Angeles Department of Engineering has developed a plan that would significantly transform the Los Angeles River, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Architects and urban planners are looking at various ways to revive the Bronx, top right, and New Orleans, bottom right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JUDI BOTTONI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.AR22)
 Buffalo, decaying for many decades, presents a test case for a new approach to failing cities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR23) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BOB SCOTT) (pg.AR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FAMILY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); WORLD WAR II (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); COLD WAR (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1173 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3274 words

 BODY:
Comedy
 ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater ''Comedy Night Round 29: Battle of the Sexes.'' Tuesday at 6:15 p.m. $73, price includes meal. Westchester Broadway Theater, 75 Clearbrook Road. broadwaytheatre.com; (914) 592-2222.
 Film
 KINGSTON Ulster Performing Arts Center ''Funny Girl,'' starring Barbra Streisand. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $5. Ulster Performing Arts Center, 601 Broadway. upac.org; (845) 473-2072. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''Wendy and Lucy,'' directed by Kelly Reichardt. Wednesday through April 9. $7 to $9. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. paramountcenter.org; (914) 739-2333. 
 PLEASANTVILLE Jacob Burns Film Center ''Westchester Jewish Film Festival 2009,'' various screenings and events. Through Thursday. $6 to $16. ''Hunger,'' directed by Steve McQueen, contemporary visual artist. Friday. $6 to $10. Jacob Burns Film Center, 364 Manville Road. burnsfilmcenter.org; (914) 747-5555. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Focus on French Cinema 2009,'' various screenings and events. Friday through April 5. $10 to 95. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. focusonfrenchcinema.org; (914) 251-6200. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''Un Secret,'' French film directed by Claude Miller. Based on Phillippe Grimbert's novel. Wednesday at 7 p.m. $9 and $11. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. jccmidwestchester.org; (914) 472-3300. 
 For Children
 SCARSDALE Greenburgh Nature Center ''Nature Bugs,'' looking for signs of life on the lawn and in the woods. Meet a museum animal each week and do a craft or nature game. Ages 2 to 5. Monday. $4 to $8. Greenburgh Nature Center, 99 Dromore Road. greenburghnaturecenter.org; (914) 723-3470. 
 TARRYTOWN J C C on the Hudson ''Mama Doni and the Mama Doni Band Cut Loose at a Chocolate Passover Seder,'' concert and holiday celebration. All ages. March 29 at 2:30 p.m. $20; $35, family seder and concert. J. C. C. on the Hudson, 371 South Broadway. (914) 366-7898; jcconthehudson.org. 
 TARRYTOWN Warner Library ''Family Movies: The 70th anniversary of Walt Disney's 'Pinocchio.' '' Ages 3 and up. Monday at 6:30 p.m. Free. Warner Library, 121 North Broadway. (914) 631-7734;
 warnerlibrary.org. 
 WHITE PLAINS White Plains Public Library ''Jerusalem Sky,'' a children's exhibition. Through April 5. White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue. (914) 422-1480; 
 whiteplainslibrary.org. 
 Museums and Galleries
 ARMONK The Studio: An Alternative Space for Contemporary Art ''Contemporary Selections: A Look at Abstract and Figurative Sculpture,'' group show. Through May 10. Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m., or by appointment. The Studio: An Alternative Space for Contemporary Art, 2 Maryland Avenue. (914) 273-1452; thestudiony-alternative.org. 
 BEACON 400 Square LLC ''Alternative Processes in a Contemporary World,'' photography exhibition featuring works by Denise DeVore, Donna Francis, Jennifer Konig and Kristy Reichert. Through April 30. 400 Square LLC, 149 Main Street. 400square.com; (914) 522-4736. 
 BEACON Go North: A Space for Contemporary Art ''The Sacred Balance of the Irreverent: Remembering Audrey Chibbaro,'' retrospective exhibition of the late artist's work. Through April 5. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Go North: A Space for Contemporary Art, 469 Main Street. (845) 242-1951; gonorthgallery.com. 
 BRONXVILLE Noel Fine Art ''The Art of Assemblage,'' mixed-media sculptures by Noel DeGaetano. Through Tuesday. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., or by appointment. Noel Fine Art, 80 Kraft Avenue. (914) 337-4050; noelfineart.com. 
 BRONXVILLE OSilas Gallery ''The Vale of Kashmir: Photographs by John Isaac.'' ''Figures in an Imaginary Landscape: A Show of Digital Painting,'' by Kit Fitzgerald. Both through April 8. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. OSilas Gallery, 171 White Plains Road. osilasgallery.org; (914) 395-4520. 
 CROSS RIVER Gallery in the Park, Ward Pound Ridge Reservation ''Pursuing Light,'' with oil paintings by Chris Magadini, a Croton-on-Hudson artist. Through April 30. Daily, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Gallery in the Park, Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, Routes 35 and 121 South. westchestergov.com/parks; (914) 864-7371. 
 CROTON-ON-HUDSON Rutheny's Brook Street Gallery ''Barefoot and Illiterate: 'Not Shoes' and 'Not Books,' '' three-dimensional assemblage sculptures by Dana DeVito, Marcy B. Freedman and Carla Rae Johnson. Through Tuesday. Rutheny's Brook Street Gallery, 80 Brook Street. (914) 271-0980. 
 GREENBURGH Greenburgh Town Hall ''Matters of the Heart: Supporting Creative Aging Through the Arts,'' exhibition by Westchester artists 55 years and older. Through May 5. Free. Greenburgh Town Hall, 177 Hillside Avenue. (914) 271-3878; greenburghny.com. 
 HUDSON John Davis Gallery ''Above the Neck: Prints and Drawings by Constance Jacobson.'' Through March 29. John Davis Gallery, 362 1/2 Warren Street. (518) 828-5907; johndavisgallery.com.
 IRVINGTON Irvington Public Library ''Photography Gone Wild,'' an exhibition of color digital photographs by Lev Gogish. Through Tuesday. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Irvington Public Library, 12 South Astor Street. (914) 591-7840; irvingtonlibrary.org. 
 KATONAH John Jay Homestead Historic Site ''John Jay and the Treaty of Paris,'' exhibition commemorating the 225th anniversary of the signing of the treaty that ended the Revolutionary War. Through Sept. 1. $7; seniors and students, $5; children under 12, free. John Jay Homestead Historic Site, 400 Route 22. (914) 232-5651; johnjayhomestead.org. 
 LARCHMONT Sheldrake Environmental Center ''The Lure of the Land,'' paintings by Hilda Green Demsky. Through June 14. Mondays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sheldrake Environmental Center, 685 Weaver Street. sheldrakecenter.org; (914) 834-1443. 
 MOUNT KISCO Lot84 ''Here + There,'' photography exhibition of large black and white prints with works by Pamela Landau Connolly. Through June 30. Tuesdays through Saturdays 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Lot84, 84 Lexington Avenue. (914) 244-8535; lot84.com. 
 MOUNT VERNON St. Paul's Church National Historic Site ''Chief Executives on the Village Green: St. Paul's and the Presidents,'' historic prints, documents, artifacts, sound and text explore connections between five presidents and St. Paul's. Through Jan. 1. St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue. (914) 667-4116; nps.gov/sapa. 
 NEW ROCHELLE Third Rail Studio ''Cake,'' a midcareer retrospective of the sculptor and visual artist Don Desper. Through April 18. Hours: Thursdays and Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment. Third Rail Studio, 49 Plain Avenue. (914) 712-9831; 3rdrailstudio.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Flat Iron Gallery ''Taking Off!'' prints by Kevin Kall. Through April 26. Hours: Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment. Flat Iron Gallery, 105 South Division Street. (914) 734-1894; flatiron.qpg.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art ''Exhibition of 2008 Artist-in-Residence Karen Sargsyan.'' Through May 10. ''Origins,'' multimedia group show. Through July 26. $2 to $5; members, free. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment. Hudson Valley Center for Contemporary Art, 1701 Main Street. (914) 788-0100; hvcca.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''The Hudson Valley Project,'' photography exhibition presented by the Ground Glass. Through June 30. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 PEEKSKILL Westchester Gallery ''Nina Weinberg Doran, Inscription,'' photography. Through April 4. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Westchester Gallery, 27 North Division Street. (914) 606-7300; westchestergallery.wordpress.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Yamet Arts Inc. ''For the Love of Art,'' featuring works by 30 local artists. Through Tuesday. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Yamet Arts Inc., 1000 North Division Street. (914) 737-1646; yametonart.com. 
 PELHAM Pelham Art Center ''And for All This, Nature Is Never Spent,'' sculpture, video, photography and installation-based exhibition addressing specific environmental issues. Through April 25. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Pelham Art Center, 155 Fifth Avenue. pelhamartcenter.org; (914) 738-2525. 
 POUGHKEEPSIEVassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center ''Faith and Fantasy in Outsider Art From the Permanent Collection,'' more than 50 paintings, drawings, sculptures and mixed-media works by self-taught ''outsider'' artists. Through April 26. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Vassar College, Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, 124 Raymond Avenue. fllac.vassar.edu.; (845) 437-5632. 
 POUND RIDGE Hiram Halle Memorial Library ''Taking the Silk Road,'' paintings by Berenice Pliskin. Through April 18. Hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hiram Halle Memorial Library, 271 Westchester Avenue. poundridgelibrary.org; (914) 764-5085. 
 PURCHASEManhattanville College Gallery of Fine Art ''Art as Social Awareness,'' paintings by Elon Brasil. Through April 10. Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursday and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 12 to 4 p.m. Manhattanville College Gallery of Fine Art, 2900 Purchase Street. (914) 694-2200; manhattanville.edu. 
 PURCHASENeuberger Museum of Art ''Andy Warhol: Pop Politics,'' exhibition of more than 60 works on political leaders who shaped the past century. Through April 26. ''Andy Warhol: Snapshots,'' exhibition of more than 50 photographs from the museum's permanent collection, taken by the artist at different stages in his career. Through May 17. ''American Gothic: True or Faux Notions of American Culture,'' exhibition examining activism, Pop, the Cold War, feminism and capital excess in 1960s America. Through June 7. ''New Media: Why,'' exhibition investigating thematic aspects of technology-based artwork. Through June 28. ''E-Cyclorama,'' large cylindrical panorama painting by Sanford Wurmfeld. Tuesday through Sept. 13. ''African Art and Culture: Selections From the Collection.'' Through Dec. 1. ''Outdoor Sculpture From the Permanent Collection,'' modern and contemporary art throughout the Purchase College campus. Through Dec. 31. All exhibitions $3 and $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Neuberger Museum of Art, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6100; neuberger.org. 
 WEST NYACK Rockland Center for the Arts ''Office Space'' contemporary artists using simple materials representing uniformity while celebrating the individual. Through April 30. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Rockland Center for the Arts, 27 South Greenbush Road. rocklandartcenter.org; (845) 358-0877. 
 WHITE PLAINS White Plains ''David Hayes in White Plains,'' 62-piece, 30-year retrospective with sculptures in public and private spaces throughout the city. Through Dec. 1. White Plains. davidhayes.com.
 WOODSTOCK Galerie B.M.G. ''Elements and Inks,'' photographs by Dan Burkholder. Through May. 18. Hours: Fridays through Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., and by appointment. Galerie B.M.G., 12 Tannery Brook Road. (845) 679-0027; galeriebmg.com. 
 YONKERSHudson River Museum ''Whitfield Lovell: All Things in Time,'' large-scale found objects and charcoal portraits examining African-Americans from Reconstruction through World War II. Through May 10. $3 and $5; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m. Hudson River Museum, 511 Warburton Avenue. hrm.org; (914) 963-4550. 
 Music and Dance
 ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts Bard Conservatory Orchestra, classical. Conducted by Leon Botstein. April 5 at 3 p.m. Free. Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, 30 Campus Road. fishercenter.bard.edu; (845) 758-7900. 
 BEDFORD Bedford Presbyterian Church ''Mary the Muse,'' works by Bernstein, Poulenc, Rachmaninov and more. March 29 at 4 p.m. $25. ''Love's Language: The Song of Songs.'' April 4 at 4 p.m. $20 and $25. Both presented by the Charis Chamber Voices. Bedford Presbyterian Church, Village Green, Routes 172 and 22. CharisVocals.com;
 (914) 234-3672. 
 KATONAHCaramoor Center for Music and the Arts Ariel String Quartet, classical. Works by Haydn, Beethoven and Brahms. March 29 at 4 p.m. $25. ''Forever Young: Mendelsohn at 200,'' classical. Featuring Caramoor Virtuosi with Edward Arron. April 4 at 8 p.m. $40. Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts, 149 Girdle Ridge Road. (914) 232-1252; caramoor.com. 
 MONTROSE United States Army Field Band Jazz Ambassadors. Big Band music. April 2 at 7:30 p.m. Hendrick Hudson High School Auditorium, 2166 Albany Post Road. (301) 677-6232; armyfieldband.com.
 OSSINING Ossining Eagles Hall Corey Ledet with River City Slim and the Zydeco Hogs. Dance lesson included at start of this event. April 4 at 7 p.m. $20. Ossining Eagles Hall, 7 Old Albany Post Road. somebodyscreamny.org; (914) 960-9057. 
 OSSINING Ossining Public Library Hannah Sun, piano. Part of the Nadia Reisenberg Young Artists Series. March 29 at 3 p.m. Free. Ossining Public Library, 53 Croton Avenue. ossininglibrary.org; (914) 941-2416. 
 PEEKSKILL BeanRunner Cafe Gunter Hampel, jazz performance and lecture. March 29, 2 to 6 p.m. $10. BeanRunner Cafe, 201 South Division Street. (914) 737-1701; beanrunnercafe.com. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts Hammer of the Gods, Led Zeppelin tribute concert. April 4 at 8 p.m. $30 to $60. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. paramountcenter.org; (914) 739-2333. 
 PIERMONT The Turning Point Lucy Kaplansky, folk and pop. March 29 at 4 p.m. $30. Walt Weiskopf, jazz. Monday at 8 and 9:30 p.m. $15. Johnny A, rock. Tuesday at 8 p.m. $25. Duke Robillard Blues Band. Friday at 9 p.m. $25. Sonny Fortune Quartet, jazz. April 6 at 8 p.m. $20. Dan Hicks and the Hot Licks, blues. April 7 at 8 p.m. $40. The Turning Point, 468 Piermont Avenue. (845) 359-1089; turningpointcafe.com. 
 POUGHKEEPSIE Bardavon Opera House The Temptations, Motown and R&B. With full orchestra. April 4 at 8 p.m. $75 to $175. Bardavon Opera House, 35 Market Street. (845) 473-5288; bardavon.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College The Purchase Jazz Orchestra, featuring Randy Brecker, trumpet. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $12 and $20. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; artscenter.org. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''I Love Paris,'' music of Aznavour, Brel, Chevalier, Ravel and Bizet. Wednesday at 1 p.m. $21 and $23. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300;
 jccmidwestchester.org. 
 TARRYTOWN Tarrytown Music Hall ''YDance Festival,'' featuring youth and adult student dancers. Through March 29. $10 and $20. ''Bela Fleck: The Africa Project,'' jazz. March 29 at 8 p.m. $45 to $85. Kenny Loggins, pop and rock. Thursday at 8 p.m. $68 to $98. Jonatha Brooke with special guest Glen Philips, pop. Friday at 8 p.m. $35 and $45. ''Beatlemania Now,'' re-creation of more than 35 classic songs covering the career of the Beatles. April 4 at 8 p.m. $29 to $45. Josh Ritter, folk and rock. April 5 at 8 p.m. $30 to $45. Tarrytown Music Hall, 13 Main Street. tarrytownmusichall.org;
 (877) 840-0457. 
 TUCKAHOE Westchester Italian Cultural Center ''Neapolitan Songs,'' Italian opera directed by Eugene Sirotkine. Featuring performers from the Metropolitan Opera. Friday at 7 p.m. $60 and $75. Westchester Italian Cultural Center, 1 Generoso Pope Place. (914) 771-8700; wiccny.org. 
 WHITE PLAINS Grace Church ''Hooray for Hollywood,'' a program of rarely heard works by noted European composers working in Hollywood. Presented by Downtown Music. March 29 at 3:30 p.m. $20 and $25. Grace Church, 33 Church Street. (914) 949-0384; DTMusic.org. 
 Outdoors
 RYE Playland Park ''Preparing the Butterfly Garden.'' Learn about plant and butterfly relationships, with a focus on native species. April 4 at 1 p.m. Free. Playland Park. ryeplayland.org.; (914) 967-8720. 
 SOMERS Muscoot Farm ''Farm Fun.'' Join the farm staff members as they explain all about the animals that live at the farm. Play farm-oriented games and enjoy other fun activities. March 29, 1 to 3 p.m. Free. Muscoot Farm, Route 100. westchestergov.com/parks; (914) 864-7282. 
 Spoken Word
 MOUNT VERNON St. Paul's Church National Historic Site ''Washington's Spies,'' the historian Alexander Rose explores the world of New York area spies who supplied George Washington with crucial information during the Revolutionary War. April 11 at 2 p.m. Free. St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue. nps.gov/sapa.; (914) 667-4116. 
 SCARSDALE J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester ''Carol Leifer in Conversation,'' moderated by Jerry Seinfeld. Live satellite broadcast from the 92nd Street Y. April 7 at 8 p.m. $9 and $11. J. C. C. of Mid-Westchester, 999 Wilmot Road. (914) 472-3300;
 jccmidwestchester.org. 
 SHRUB OAK John C. Hart Memorial Library ''Music of the Jazz Age: Lecture with Music,'' Reid Badger discusses how the music of the 1920s reflected the moods and social changes of the period. March 29 at 2 p.m. Free. ''The Economy and Your Investments,'' Andrew Donovan discusses oil, subprime lending, the election and the impact on your portfolio. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Free. John C. Hart Memorial Library, 1130 Main Street. (914) 245-5262;
 yorktownlibrary.org. 
 Theater
 CROTON FALLS Schoolhouse Theater ''Biography,'' comedy by S. N. Berhman. Through March 29. $28 and $30. Schoolhouse Theater, 3 Owens Road. (914) 277-8477;
 schoolhousetheater.org. 
 ELMSFORD Westchester Broadway Theater ''Funny Girl,'' musical comedy. Book by Isobel Lennart, music by Jule Styne and lyrics by Bob Merrill. Featuring Jill Abramovitz. Thursday through June 14. $73, price includes meal. Westchester Broadway Theater, 75 Clearbrook Road. broadwaytheatre.com; (914) 592-2222.
 IRVINGTON Irvington Town Hall ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood.'' musical by Rupert Holmes. Presented by the Broadway Training Center. Friday through April 5. $12 and $20. Irvington Town Hall, 85 Main Street. irvingtontheater.com; (914) 591-6602. 
 PEEKSKILL Paramount Center for the Arts ''Hedda Gabler,'' drama by Henrik Ibsen. Presented by the Might Theater Company. April 5 at 2 p.m. $25. Paramount Center for the Arts, 1008 Brown Street. (914) 739-2333; paramountcenter.org. 
 PLEASANTVILLE St. John's Episcopal Church Community House ''Cherry and Jerry,'' comedy by Howard Meyer. Presented by Axial Theater. Through April 5. $15 and $20. St. John's Episcopal Church Community House, 8 Sunnyside Avenue. (914) 286-7680;
 axialtheatre.org. 
 PURCHASE Performing Arts Center, Purchase College ''Richard III,'' by William Shakespeare. Presented by the Purchase Repertory Theater. Through April 5. $12.50 and $17.50. Performing Arts Center, Purchase College, 735 Anderson Hill Road. (914) 251-6200; artscenter.org. 
 SPRING VALLEY Finkelstein Memorial Library ''Bloody Murder,'' comedy by Ed Sala based on the Agatha Christie murder mystery. Presented by M&M Productions. April 5 at 2 p.m. Free. Finkelstein Memorial Library, 24 Chestnut Street. (845) 352-5700; finkelsteinlibrary.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PURCHASE: An African masquerade costume featured in ''The Egungun Festival Family Program,'' which will include workshops, performances and a visit by members of an African village at the Neuberger Museum of Art this Saturday from 1 to 4 p.m. 735 Anderson Hill Road. Free. (914) 251-6100
neuberger.org.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM FRANK/NEUBERGER MUSEUM OF ART)
PEEKSKILL: David Sedaris performs at the Paramount Center for the Arts this Thursday at 7:30 p.m. 1008 Brown Street. $40 to $60. (914)739-2333
paramountcenter.org.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE FISHBEIN)
KATONAH: ''Drawing for Still Life With Reclining Nude, 1997'' is featured in ''Lichtenstein in Process'' at the Katonah Museum of Art through June 28. Hours: Tuesdays to Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Thursdays till 8 p.m.
Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. 134 Jay Street. $3 and $5
members and children, free. (914) 232-9555
katonahmuseum.org.
TARRYTOWN: Brandi Carlile, above, pop and folk musician, plays with special guest, Gregory Alan Isakov, at Tarrytown Music Hall this Tuesday at 8 p.m. 13 Main Street. $30 to $45. (877) 840-0457
 tarrytownmusichall.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (84%); FILM GENRES (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PASSOVER (74%); FESTIVALS (74%); LIBRARIES (64%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1174 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: A Tudor City Empire

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LIKE every real estate mogul, large and small, Brian K. Thompson had a big dream. 
 In the 1990s, he left a job with a real estate management company and struck out on his own, discovering almost by accident an auction of Manhattan apartments in foreclosure. 
 There, he bought his first studio apartment for $25,000 in 1993, but the day before the closing there was a fire, and the seller knocked $2,000 off the price. A 335-square-foot co-op, it was at 45 Tudor City Place, at East 43rd Street, overlooking United Nations Plaza. Mr. Thompson liked the building, and began buying apartments there.
 He learned the history of Tudor City, a nine-building development begun in 1927. Among the first privately financed slum clearance projects, it was across the street from some meatpacking plants, now the site of the United Nations. Eventually, he became the unofficial historian of the development, leading walking tours every spring. 
 He bought tiny studios and small one-bedrooms, stripped as many as 40 coats of paint from moldings, doors and radiators, and cleaned and repaired original copper and brass ceiling fixtures. He planned to combine the studios into larger apartments to take advantage of the soaring real estate market. 
 Mr. Thompson accumulated five studios and a one-bedroom along a single corridor on the 21st floor, with city views, and another studio on the 19th floor. Some of the properties also have East River views, but because vistas of industrial meatpacking plants came with them, most of the windows facing the river are on the corridor connecting the apartments. 
 Mr. Thompson's idea, supported by the board, he said, was to merge the ''obsolete'' studios together, incorporate the corridor and open up the big river views. 
 But there was one problem. Mr. Thompson was never able to buy the last apartment on the corridor, No. 1904, a one-bedroom.
 Now his dream has been upended, not by the economic downturn, but by his divorce. In February, to facilitate a settlement, Mr. Thompson listed the seven apartments for $2.85 million, looking perhaps for an investor who would buy the 21st-floor units and wait for the last apartment on the corridor to go on the market. Now he has a buyer for the 19th-floor studio, at $315,000, about $30,000 less than similar apartments were selling for last year, giving him more time to wait and to dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); HISTORY (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1175 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: A Boy Living In a Car

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: CAP HAITIEN, Haiti 

 BODY:
 As America's unemployment rate rises, those paying the severest price aren't necessarily in Detroit or Miami. One of the newest street children here in this northern Haitian city is a 10-year-old boy whose father was working in Florida but lost his job and can no longer send money home. As a result, the family here was evicted, the mother and children went separate ways to improve their odds of finding shelter, and the boy found refuge in an abandoned wreck of a car.
 The boy is one of 46 million people in the developing world -- more than double the New York State population -- who will be driven into poverty in 2009, according to a World Bank estimate. 
 In Haiti's largest slum, Cite Soleil, in the capital, Port-au-Prince, I stumbled upon a one-room public school. The principal, Claude Lafaille, lamented that enrollment had dropped from 150 at the start of the year to 60 today.
 ''Haitians in America stopped sending money back, and so their family members can't pay fees,'' he said.
 The school used to provide free breakfasts to ensure that students got at least one solid meal a day. But in January, the charity that provided the food had to stop because its donations were dropping, so now the remaining children are often too hungry to concentrate.
 In the St. Catherine Laboure hospital in Port-au-Prince, the number of children admitted for malnutrition has approximately doubled since September, said a pediatrician, Dr. Armide Jeanty. She pointed to a 15-month-old child, Richardson, skeletal and covered with sores. He stared blankly, for when children are severely malnourished their bodies shut down and do not waste energy crying, laughing or smiling.
 It's natural in an economic crisis to look inward, to focus on America's own needs, but it's worth remembering that the consequence of a deep recession in a poor country isn't just a lost job but also a lost child.
 In Cite Soleil, a woman named Chantal Dorlus told me that her 5-year-old daughter, Nasson, starved to death last month, and neighbors confirmed the account. Ms. Dorlus said that her three other children would have starved as well if not for the generosity of her neighbors, who share their meager food supplies.
 If slum-dwelling Haitians can share what little they have, I hope we can be equally generous during this downturn when needs are greatest.
 On this trip, I met a couple of American women, Sasha Kramer and Sarah Brownell, both in their early 30s, who offer an example of outward commitment at a time when most of us are retrenching and focusing on ourselves. Sasha and Sarah run a hand-to-mouth aid group, called SOIL; they speak fluent Creole and get around on motorcycle taxis while waving back at legions of fans on every street. (You can watch a video of them at nytimes.com/ontheground.) 
 I was interested in their work because it addresses two of the developing world's greatest but least glamorous challenges. One is sanitation, for human waste in poor countries routinely spreads disease and parasites. The second is agriculture, for poor countries must increase crop yields if they are to overcome poverty and hunger.
 Sasha and Sarah create dry composting toilets that turn human waste into valuable fertilizer. They say that the yearlong composting process kills the pathogens in the waste, making it safe to use the fertilizer.
 Frankly, I was taken aback when, 10 minutes after they had met me, they pulled out a Ziploc bag and proudly declared that it was compost made from their own toilet. They were so impressed with what they had accomplished that I felt obliged to take a whiff and hold it in my fingers; it simply felt and smelled like rich potting soil, and I would never have guessed its origins.
 Haitian farmers use virtually no fertilizer -- less than a pound per acre, compared with about 90 pounds in the United States -- and soils are severely depleted. But Sasha calculates that if half of Haitians' human waste could be used as fertilizer, that would amount to a 17-fold increase in fertilizer use, more than doubling the country's agricultural production.
 Sasha and Sarah have deployed 45 of their toilets, and now they are trying to introduce a municipal composting system in Cap Haitien. 
 I don't know if this is feasible. But I love the idea that even when the needs of the United States are so immense, a couple of young Americans aren't complaining or finger-pointing, but are hard at work to assist others whose distress is incomparably greater than our own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STARVATION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1176 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CULTURED TRAVELER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: In Berlin, Authors Find Their Voice

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

 BODY:
ON one of those long December nights in Berlin that make the days feel like no more than mere intermissions, the steady drizzle and slippery cobblestones should have kept anyone even entertaining the notion of stepping outside into such misery at home under a blanket. Yet there they were, a crowd of young people in sneakers and hoodies, over 100 strong to watch the group known as Chaussee der Enthusiasten, or Avenue of the Enthusiasts, give their weekly reading from their latest works.
 Some of the pieces were carefully crafted vignettes, others handwritten, free-associating riffs on the day's headlines, daredevil feats of literature without a net. Two of the young men, Jochen Schmidt and Stephan Zeisig, bantered on stage like an East Berlin version of ''A Prairie Home Companion,'' concluding every sentence with ''wahr?'' which means ''true,'' and is the capstone of most thoughts expressed in Berliner dialect and a challenge rather than a question, you know?
 They talked about trying to seem ''oppositionell'' when they were just coming of age in the days before the Wall fell, not out of conviction but because they had heard that female Stasi agents slept with regime opponents to get at their secrets. The crowd laughed. 
 ''Oh, come on,'' heckled a fellow writer and Enthusiast, Kirsten Fuchs, as she waited for her turn. ''Last week you were talking about having a crush on your Pioneer leader,'' referring to East Germany's indoctrinating version of a scout leader. The crowd howled. The reading continued. 
 Just another night out in Berlin.
 With its history as the capital of the Third Reich and time as the divided symbol of the cold war, Berlin may not be known for happy stories, but it is known in Germany for a certain rueful humor, sharpened by tragedy, suffering and the unforgiving environment itself. Foreigners most often stumble into this attitude through ''Cabaret,'' the musical expression of Christopher Isherwood's ''Berlin Stories,'' his prose tribute to the capital in the dying days of the Weimar Republic.
 Wit and wordplay are a native sport, and locals turn out in force at readings big and small, from the stately Literaturhaus in Charlottenburg in the west to the bare concrete and benches at the RAW-tempel -- where the Chaussee der Enthusiasten reading took place -- in the former railyard where the former Reichsbahn used to fix up its trains in Friedrichshain in the former east.
 Across the ocean, the word has been out for more than a little while about the cavernous spaces available in Berlin for a seemingly ceremonial fee -- even by the standards of crisis-chastened New York and London. Those low rents famously have allowed industrial artists to find studios for their massive sculptures, and bands to lease rehearsal spaces for their practice sessions. 
 Applied on the minute scale, that means ultracheap nooks for the aspiring authors who need room only for a laptop (or, in advanced cases of the writing bug, an antique typewriter) and a precarious stack of books. 
 There are cheaper places in the world, though one has to go much farther east nowadays than Warsaw to find them, but none that also have the breadth of cultural offering. Whether that's the KW Institute for Contemporary Art or the Berlinale film festival, Daniel Barenboim conducting ''Fidelio'' at the Berlin State Opera or the peaked black roof of Bertolt Brecht's Berliner Ensemble looming over the Spree River and would-be playwrights alike, there is culture and tradition.
 It is that history as much or more than the economics that appeals to writers. Berlin wears its old wounds plainly, like a dueling scar in an Otto Dix portrait. In this capital city, the government left the scrawling of Soviet soldiers on the walls of the Reichstag as a chastening reminder to legislators of the country's darkest hour and how it ended up there. 
 ''Berlin openly tells stories and heavily breathes history on every street corner,'' said Thomas Pletzinger, whom I got to know a decade ago when he was a young publishing assistant in New York. Last year, his first novel, ''Bestattung eines Hundes,'' or ''Burial of a Dog,'' received wide critical praise in Germany; it will be published in the United States in fall 2010. 
 Mr. Pletzinger described himself as growing up ''in a small, bombed-out yet nowadays seemingly history-free city in Western Germany that conceals all traces of history with ugly '60s architecture and shopping centers.'' Berlin, the bustling metropolis of Alfred Doblin's ''Berlin Alexanderplatz,'' was always his goal as a youth in his hometown of Hagen, not far from Dortmund. Now at work on a novel set in Berlin, Prague and New York between 1925 and 2005, he said that this is the place he has to write it.
 More and more, the city is expanding on its historic role as an incubator of books. Award winners and anonymous scribblers, locals and expatriates, everyone in Berlin has a book in him and everyone with a book in him seems to have roosted in Berlin. 
 The teeming masses of authors are supported by a superstructure of foundations and grants and ubiquitous antiquariat (used-book stores) seemingly on every corner, not to mention the noble cultural villas, like the Literarisches Colloquium Berlin and the American Academy in Berlin, both on the same lovely lake -- the Wannsee -- near where the poet Heinrich von Kleist killed himself in 1811 after first shooting the incurably ill Henriette Vogel.
 Seven young writers, including Mr. Pletzinger, rented a space in the former eastern part of the city to challenge the notion that their profession is, by necessity, a solitary one. They opened a storefront where they can work side by side, calling it Adler & Sohne Literaturproduktion, a kind of highbrow sweatshop for the stitching together of sentences.
 The area around Helmholtzplatz in the northern end of Prenzlauer Berg is known for its bars and cafes, where the music and the conversation carry on deep into the night. But on a rainy evening this past July, it was instead a little storefront on a nearby side street where the guests spilled onto the sidewalk, ignoring the weather and drinking and talking into the morning hours.
 Writers from Poland and Mexico, New York and London, and every corner of Germany were celebrating the opening of Adler & Sohne. Sasa Stanisic, a co-founder who is originally from Bosnia and is the author of ''How the Soldier Repairs the Gramophone,'' a novel in German set during the conflict in Bosnia, was among them. He held forth in English about a recent trip to Iowa, where he was a fellow at the International Writing Program at the University of Iowa. Nearby, plans were being laid to rendezvous at the upcoming Frankfurt Book Fair. A tryst or two began in the backroom.
 Most intriguing was the story making the rounds that this humble location had once housed the tobacco shop where the iconic East German avant-garde dramatist Heiner Muller used to buy his cigarettes. The possibility that the nicotine that powered the writing of ''Hamletmachine'' was procured in that very space seemed, for some, far more intoxicating than the beer.
 WRITTEN WORD SPOKEN HERE
 Here is where to find information about readings and writers' groups in Berlin:
 Adler & Sohne Literaturproduktion: Senefelderstrasse 31; www.adlerundsoehne.com.
 American Academy in Berlin: Am Sandwerder 17-19; 49-30-804-830; www.americanacademy.de. 
 Chausee der Enthusiasten (www.enthusiasten.de) at RAW-tempel: Revaler Strasse 99; 49-30-292-4695; www.raw-tempel.de.
 Literaturhaus Berlin: Fasanenstrasse 23; 49-30-887-2860; www.literaturhaus-berlin.de.
 Literarisches Colloquium Berlin: Am Sandwerder 5; 49-30-816-9960; www.lcb.de.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above The Literaturhaus in Charlottenburg.
 BELOW: A reading by the writers' group Chaussee der Enthusiasten. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SIMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); SCULPTURE (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1177 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Loggers Try to Adapt To Greener Economy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: LOWELL, Ore. 

 BODY:
Booming timber towns with three-shift lumber mills are a distant memory in the densely forested Northwest. Now, with the housing market and the economy in crisis, some rural areas have never been more raw. Mills keep closing. People keep leaving. Unemployment in some counties is near 20 percent.
 Yet in parts of the region, the decline is being met by an unlikely optimism. Some people who have long fought to clear-cut the region's verdant slopes are trying to reposition themselves for a more environmentally friendly economy, motivated by changing political interests, the federal stimulus package and sheer desperation.
 Some mills that once sought the oldest, tallest evergreens are now producing alternative energy from wood byproducts like bark or brush. Unemployed loggers are looking for work thinning federal forests, a task for which the stimulus package devotes $500 million; the goal is to make forests more resistant to wildfires and disease. Some local officials are betting there is revenue in a forest resource that few appreciated before: the ability of trees to absorb carbon dioxide, a heat-trapping gas that can contribute to global warming. 
 Pragmatism drives the shifting thinking, but a critical question remains: can people really make a long-term living off the forest without cutting it down? 
 ''I run into people all the time who think we're lying and trying to go back to old logging ways,'' said Jim Walls, director of the Lake County Resources Initiative in southeastern Oregon, a nonprofit agency that is trying to create jobs for rural residents in fields like biomass energy production and wildfire prevention. ''It's just not true.''
 One new believer is Harold Jones. Hear him repent and reposition in the new economy.
 ''The only money I've ever made is cutting down trees,'' Mr. Jones, 75, said just after coming in from thinning the stand of Douglas firs he has planted on 125 acres he owns here in Lowell. ''So what I've tried to do in my retirement is to try to bring back and repay the Earth for a lot of the devastation I've caused it.''
 Mr. Jones started logging in 1948 and has long rolled his eyes at ''countercultural types'' who protest timber sales. Yet in front of his property now are signs saying ''Certified Family Forest.'' 
 The certification process, supervised by the American Tree Farm System, requires Mr. Jones to manage and replant his land under the supervision of a professional forester. It is intended in part to give small tree farmers some credibility within the sustainable forestry movement, which promotes forest health, and to help them market their product as ''green lumber.'' 
 ''It's quite a process,'' he said. 
 Restrictions on logging have prompted entrepreneurial thinking about the forest for years, but efforts have increased as states like Oregon and Washington have emphasized renewable energy and jobs that support it. In turn, the plummeting housing market has forced some timber companies to try to diversify -- and even collaborate with environmentalists to protect forests from wildfires, disease and development.
 ''There's been recognition in the last several years that we need the industry to carry out the restoration work we want accomplished,'' said Jonathan Oppenheimer, a senior conservation associate for the Idaho Conservation League, which is negotiating with loggers and others with the goal of getting Congress to preserve parts of the Clearwater National Forest as wilderness. 
 For loggers and other rural workers, survival in the future might mean abandoning fights to cut older trees in exchange for being able to salvage smaller timber from burned forests. It might mean removing or rebuilding roads and structures on federal land, whether to reduce erosion or to improve recreational access. For the Forest Service, the stimulus money for thinning reflects an increasing emphasis on preventing wildfires, rather than simply fighting them, by removing smaller trees and brush from overgrown forests. 
 The work may be less profitable for big timber companies than clear-cutting a hillside, but it can create jobs in places accustomed to losing them.
 In Lane County, Ore., on the wet west side of the Cascade Range, the county commission is looking for revenue to replace dwindling federal payments set up a decade ago to help governments in timber regions. Lane County received about $47 million this year, but the subsidies are declining and are scheduled to expire in 2012.
 Now Lane County commissioners are asking the Legislature to draft a resolution urging Congress to pay counties that have large amounts of federal forest land for the carbon that their forests trap. Such a plan would depend on Congress's developing a system for buying and selling so-called carbon offsets. 
 Not everyone likes the idea. Some loggers say it would be the final blow to their efforts to restore more logging on federal land. Jobs that have disappeared, they say, will never return.
 ''It puts us at risk,'' said Robbie Robinson, president of Starfire Lumber in Cottage Grove, about 20 miles south of Eugene. Pyramids of Douglas fir rested outside his office window, no buyers to be found. ''What I sense is another whole business being built, and the real problem is being able to harvest old trees.''
 Forest economists say government spending, beginning with the stimulus package but also extending to any program to buy and sell carbon offsets, will be necessary to build a new economy in the rural Northwest.
 Some supporters of sustainable forestry are concerned that, despite assurances by the Forest Service, the stimulus package will create only short-term jobs in the woods and miss the chance to invest in a complete ''waste chain,'' in which small timber and brush from thinning projects are put to use for lumber, biomass fuel and other purposes, potentially strengthening rural economies on many levels. 
 ''We're doing a lot of things here that nationally we say we want to do -- biomass, fuels reduction, forest health, green jobs -- we're doing all of it now,'' said Josh Anderson, the timber resource manager for Vaagen Brothers Lumber in Colville, Wash., which has worked with environmental groups to preserve wilderness land but has had to lay off about half of its 200 employees in recent months. 
 ''We want to be here to be able to do that when things improve,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''We need to see something that moves a long-term trend toward work on these projects. It's got to be pretty integrated.''
 Mr. Walls, of the Lake County Resources Initiative, said a planned biomass energy plant in Lakeview, near the Nevada-California border, would generate 150 construction jobs, 50 to 75 permanent jobs in the forest and 15 at the plant. The plant would generate 13 megawatts of electricity, enough to power every home in the town of 2,300 and to contribute to the broader power grid. 
 But for the plant to operate, Mr. Walls said, it would need a steady flow of fuel, in the form of wood byproducts, from federal forest thinning and wildfire prevention, a pipeline that may or may not become permanent. The plant is seeking about $5 million in grant money under the stimulus package.
 Mr. Walls said he was told by the Forest Service's regional office in Portland that the project was a top prospect and that a decision was expected any day. He said its chances might have improved this month when Oregon's governor, Theodore R. Kulongoski, appointed him to a committee to help oversee stimulus spending. 
 Even if the Lakeview project and others like it do fall into place, Mr. Walls said, many other struggling timber towns still will need the demand for lumber to rebound. ''In the end,'' he said, ''the housing market does have to turn back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robbie Robinson of Starfire Lumber in Cottage Grove, Ore., who worries that there will not be room for large-scale logging in the future. Below left, Harold Jones's wedging ax from the early 1950s.
''What I've tried to do in my retirement is to try to bring back and repay the Earth for a lot of the devastation I've caused it.'' HAROLD JONES: Longtime logger who now operates a ''Certified Family Forest'' in Lowell, Ore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14)
 Oakridge, Ore., a struggling lumber town in Lane County, where officials are interested in a federal carbon offset program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); SAW MILLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); BIOMASS (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); FORESTRY SERVICES (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); FIRES (68%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1178 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3261 words

HEADLINE: Events on Long Island

 BODY:
COMEDY
 PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts Jackie (The Joke Man) Martling, stand-up. April 4 at 8 p.m. $25 to $35. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; patchoguetheatre
 .com. BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts. ''Big Laughs in Bay Shore,'' featuring comedians from the tri-state area. Friday at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; boultoncenter.org. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 BABYLON Belmont Lake State Park Annual Egg Hunt, in three age groups: 4 and under, 5 and 6, and 7 to 9. Egg hunts will be held every 15 minutes. April 4 at 12:15 p.m. Free. Belmont Lake State Park, Deer Park Avenue. (631) 667-5055; 
 nysparks.com. 
 DIX HILLS Dix Hills Performing Arts Center ''Imagine,'' an interactive show featuring Thaddeus, a magician. March 29 at 2 p.m. $5 and $12. Dix Hills Performing Arts Center, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; dhpac.org.
 GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum ''Circus Animal Hand Painting.'' Paint your hand to resemble your favorite circus animal. March 28 and 29. Free with museum admission. Barefoot Puppets presents ''Galapagos George,'' an ''eco-fable'' based on the true story of ''Lonesome George,'' a tortoise from the Galapagos Islands. March 29 at 1:30 p.m. $4 with museum admission ($3 for members), $8 for theater only. ''Li'l Chef and Me.'' Take part in the taping of a new children's cooking show. April 4 at 11 a.m. $4 to $10. ''Bread Hunt,'' a pre-Passover hunt where children learn about the holiday and its traditions. April 5, 1:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Free with museum admission. ''Reaching for a Shape,'' an exhibition featuring abstract three-dimensional sculptures made of recycled materials by Sebastian Saglimbeni. Through April 19. Free with museum admission.''Contraptions A to Z,'' an exhibition that allows visitors to experiment with playful mechanisms while exploring everything from art to literature and much more. Through May 18. Free with museum admission. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; licm.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Nassau Community College Classics for Kids presents ''The Mikado,'' a comic operetta performed by the New York Gilbert & Sullivan Players. March 29 at 1 and 3:30 p.m. $1.50. Nassau Community College, 1 Education Drive. (516) 572-7153. 
 GREENVALE Grace's Marketplace ''Mommy and Me Treats,'' Nita George, a pastry chef, will guide kids through the art of pastry decorating. April 11, 3 to 5 p.m. $40. Grace's Marketplace , 81 Glen Cove Road. (516) 621-5100;
 gracesmarketplace.com. 
 ORIENT Orient Beach State Park Annual Egg Hunt, with prizes and an appearance by the Spring Bunny. April 4 at 11 a.m. Free. Orient Beach State Park, Route 25. (631) 323-2440; nysparks.com. 
 OYSTER BAYTheodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center ''Egg-stravaganza!,'' a family egg hunt. April 11 at 1 p.m. $5 and $8. Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center, 134 Cove Road. (516) 922-3200. 
 ROSLYN HARBORNassau County Museum of Art ''Babar's Museum of Art,'' an exhibition for children at the Ridder MiniArtMuseum, through May 25. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 4:30 p.m. ''Family Sunday at the Museum,'' art activities, family tours of the exhibition from 1:30 p.m., Sundays, continuing, free with museum admission. Admission: $4 to $10; children under 5 and members, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337;
 nassaumuseum.com. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater Kidstreet family film series: ''Iron Giant,'' animated film. April 11. $7. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; baystreet.org. 
 SEA CLIFF The Center for Parents and Children ''Breakfast With the Bunny,'' with food, pictures, raffles and crafts. April 4, 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. $5; $20 per family. The Center for Parents and Children, 12 Main Avenue. (516) 671-4141;
 centerforparentsandchildren.org/. 
 SMITHTOWN Caleb Smith State Park Preserve ''Watercolor Wonders.'' Create a watercolor collage; wear old clothes. April 4, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $3 and $4. Caleb Smith State Park Preserve, Jericho Turnpike. (631) 265-1054. 
 STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages ''Gardening With Children,'' Sharon Ott, a master gardener from Cornell University Cooperative Extension, will teach visitors the basics of gardening for developing green thumbs with their children and grandchildren. Wednesday at 2 p.m. Free with museum admission. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. (631) 751-0066; longislandmuseum.org. 
 YAPHANK Suffolk County Farm and Education Center ''Farmer for a Day.'' Meet farm animals and have some old-fashioned fun. April 4 at 10 a.m. $12. Suffolk County Farm and Education Center, County Road 21. (631) 852-4600; counties.cce.cornell.edu/suffolk/Programs/SCFhome.htm. 
 FILM
 HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center ''The Razor's Edge,'' film and workshop with Richard Schaub. March 29 at 4 p.m. $9 and $12. ''The Greatest Silence: Rape in the Congo,'' documentary followed by discussion with Lisa F. Jackson, filmmaker. April 5 at 2 p.m. $9 and $12. ''Courting Justice,'' a film about the women who make up 18 percent of South Africa's judiciary; screening followed by discussion with Ruth Cowan, filmmaker. April 5 at 4:30 p.m. $9 and $12. Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423-7611;
 cinemaartscentre.org. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center ''Two Lovers,'' romantic drama. Through March 29. $3 to $10. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500;
 whbpac.org. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts Glen Phillips, former front man and songwriter for Toad the Wet Sprocket. Thursday at 8 p.m. $22.50 and $27.50. Jane Monheit, jazz. April 10 at 8 p.m. $40 and $45. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; boultoncenter.org. 
 BAYPORT Bayport-Bluepoint High School ''Romantic Masterpieces,'' featuring the Bay Area Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Dr. Richard Wright, performing Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto with Manuel Larios, violin, and Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 5. Friday at 8 p.m. Free. Bayport-Bluepoint High School, 200 Snedecor Avenue. (631) 286-1832. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts ''Brahms's Spiritual Requiem,'' with the Long Island Philharmonic Orchestra and Chorus. March 29 at 7:30 p.m. $38 to $68. ''Celebrating the String Quartet,'' featuring the Shanghai Quartet in a program of Ravel and Beethoven. April 5 at 3 p.m. $40. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; tilles
 center.org. 
 COMMACK Suffolk Y Jewish Community Center ''Sharing and Giving -- Cantorial Concert,'' featuring four Long Island cantors. March 29 at 6:30 p.m. $5 and $8. Suffolk Y Jewish Community Center, 74 Hauppauge Road. (631) 462-9800; suffolkyjcc.org. 
 DIX HILLS Dix Hills Performing Arts Center ''Cabaret at Its Best.'' Wednesday at 5 p.m. Free. Long Island High School Jazz Festival. Thursday at 9 a.m. Free. Dix Hills Performing Arts Center, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148;
 dhpac.org. 
 GLEN HEAD North Shore High School North Shore Symphony Orchestra presents a concert featuring works by Beethoven and Mendelssohn. April 4 at 8 p.m. $10 and $15. North Shore High School, 450 Glen Cove Avenue. (516) 695-4476;
 northshoresymphonyorch.org. 
 HEMPSTEAD Monroe Lecture Center Theater ''Hofstra Celebrates Elie Siegmeister at 100,'' featuring performances by Hofstra faculty, staff and guest artists. March 29 at 2 p.m. $10 to $18. The American Chamber Ensemble's Woodwind Treasures concert, classical. April 4 at 8 p.m. $10, $15 and $18. Monroe Lecture Center Theater, California Avenue, Hofstra University, South Campus. (516) 463-6644; hofstra.edu. 
 HUNTINGTON Inter-Media Art Center Jesse Cook, guitarist. Friday at 8 p.m. $30 and $40. Inter-Media Art Center, 370 New York Avenue. (631) 549-2787; imactheater.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Old First Church ''In Search of Chopin,'' an exploration through words, music and images, presented by Robyn Carmichael, pianist, and Witold Kolankowski, narrator. March 29 at 4 p.m. $10 to $20. Old First Church, Route 25A. (631) 385-0373. 
 LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library ''St. Patrick's Day Celebration,'' featuring Fiddler's Green, performing traditional music of Ireland. March 29 at 2 p.m. Free. Two of a Kind, musical duo, will perform a range of musical genres. April 5 at 2 p.m. Free. Long Beach Public Library, 111 West Park Avenue. (516) 432-7201. 
 LYNBROOK Lynbrook Library A Celtic Odyssey. March 29 at 3 p.m. $5 and $8. Lynbrook Library, Eldert Street and Carpenter Avenue. (516) 599-8630. 
 OLD WESTBURY Old Westbury Gardens Poetica Musica presents ''Afternoon of a Faun,'' featuring chamber works by Debussy, Ravel, Faure and others. April 5 at 8 p.m. $25; includes dessert reception. Old Westbury Gardens, 71 Old Westbury Road. (516) 333-0048;
 oldwestburygardens.org. 
 PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts Live in the Lobby: The Andrea Wolper Trio, jazz. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $10. Zebra Returns, rock. April 11 at 7 p.m. $32 and $37. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; patchoguetheatre.com. 
 PORT WASHINGTON Jeanne Rimsky Theater at the Landmark on Main Street Raul Malo, guitarist. Friday at 8 p.m. $30 to $40. Jeanne Rimsky Theater at the Landmark on Main Street, 232 Main Street. (516) 767-6444; landmarkonmainstreet.org. RIVERHEAD Tweed's Restaurant and Buffalo Bar A. F. Wargo, pianist, will perform a concert of classic Broadway and Hollywood songs from the Great American Song Book. March 28 and 29 at noon. Free. Tweed's Restaurant and Buffalo Bar, 17 Main Street. tweedsrestaurant.com; (631) 208-3151. 
 SMITHTOWN Smithtown Masonic Temple English Country Dance, presented by the Long Island Traditional Music Association, featuring live music of the 1600s and 1800s. April 5, 2 to 5 p.m. $14. Smithtown Masonic Temple, 34 River Road. (631) 757-3627. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center Escher String Quartet performs a chamber music repertoire of the 19th century as well as baroque and modern classics. April 4 at 7 p.m. $10 and $20. Yarn/Wire, musical ensemble. April 5 at 3 p.m. $10 and $20. Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond Lane. (631) 287-4377;
 southamptonculturalcenter.org. 
 STONY BROOK The Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center North Shore Pro Musica Chamber Music Concert, featuring works by Mozart, Barber and Loeffler. April 5 at 5 p.m. $12 and $18. The Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center, 97P Main Street. (631) 689-5888; wmho.org. 
 STONY BROOK University Cafe Brooks Williams and Beaucoup Blue, blues. March 29, 2 to 5 p.m. $20 and $25. University Cafe, Stony Brook Union Building, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-1093. 
 WESTBURY Capital One Bank Theater Jay Black, vocalist. April 4 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Aretha Franklin, soul. April 11 at 8 p.m. $71.50 and $81.50. Capital One Bank Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; livenation.com. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Joe Bonamassa, blues/rock. April 4 at 8 p.m. $40 to $70. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; whbpac.org. 
 OUTDOORS
 GARDEN CITYAdelphi University, Post Hall Outdoor Sculpture Biennial, works by 14 sculptors. Through Wednesday. Free. Adelphi University, 1 South Avenue. (516) 877-4010; adelphi.edu.
 HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park ''History of Caumsett,'' a two-mile walk studying the park's social, economic, architectural and political history. April 5, 1 to 3 p.m. $4. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770. 
 MUTTONTOWN Hoffman Center ''Woodcock Walk.'' Join staff members and search for the woodcock in hopes of seeing its courtship ritual. April 4 at 6:30 p.m. $3 and $5. Hoffman Center, 6000 Route 25A. (516) 922-3200. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 GARDEN CITY Nassau Community College ''Literature Live!'' Dolores Dorantes and Laura Solorzano, Mexican poets, will read from their work in both Spanish and English. Monday at 11 a.m. Free. Nassau Community College, 1 Education Drive. (516) 572-7720. 
 NORTHPORT Northport Historical Society Museum ''Extraordinary Women of the 19th Century: The Story of NY Temperance Women and Suffragists You Didn't Know About.'' March 29 at 2 p.m. $3. Northport Historical Society Museum, 215 Main Street. 
 northporthistorical.org; (631) 757-9859. 
 THEATER
 BOHEMIA Airport Playhouse ''Death of a Salesman,'' by Arthur Miller. Through April 5. $14 to $22. ''Disney's High School Musical 2,'' musical. Through April 11. $15. Airport Playhouse, 218 Knickerbocker Avenue. airportplayhouse.com; (631) 589-7588. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts ''Movin' Out,'' Broadway show by Billy Joel and Twyla Tharp. Friday and April 4. $42 to $75. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C.W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; tillescenter.org. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater ''The Rabbit Hole,'' by David Lindsay-Abaire. Through April 12. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674;
 arenaplayers.org. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Second Stage Theater ''Four Dogs and a Bone,'' by William Shakespeare, Adam Long, Daniel Singer and Jess Borgenson. Through March 29. $18 and $22. Arena Players Second Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; arenaplayers.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Adelphi University Performing Arts Center ''10 Minute Play Festival,'' featuring short plays submitted from around the country and selected for production by a committee of students, staff and faculty. Thursday and Friday at 7:30 p.m.; April 4 at 2 and 8 p.m. $7 to $15. Adelphi University Performing Arts Center, 1 South Avenue. (516) 877-4000; 
 aupac.adelphi.edu. 
 GARDEN CITY Nassau Community College ''The Kite Runner,'' a theatrical adaptation of the book by Khaled Hosseini. Monday at 9:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Free. Nassau Community College, 1 Education Drive. (516) 572-7153. 
 LINDENHURST Studio Theater ''The Dixie Swim Club,'' comedy. Through April 5. $14 to $22. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700. NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater ''Little Women,'' musical based on the story by Louisa May Alcott. Through April 19. $60. John W. Engeman Theater, 250 Main Street; johnwengemantheater.com; (631) 261-2900.
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''I Am My Own Wife,'' by Doug Wright. April 4 through April 26. $14 to $28. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; theaterthree.com. 
 QUOGUE Quogue Community Hall ''Six Degrees of Separation,'' by John Guare. Through April 5. $10 to $22. Quogue Community Hall, 126 Jessup Avenue. (631) 653-8955; hamptontheatre.org. 
 STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts ''National Acrobats of China.'' March 29 at 7 p.m. $34. Staller Center for the Arts, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-2787; 
 staller.sunysb.edu. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum ''Poor Boy to Rockefeller: Long Island Oysters and Oystermen,'' an exhibition exploring the role of the oyster in the lives of Long Islanders over the centuries. Through Sept. 7. $4 and $5; children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 to 5 p.m. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; cshwhalingmuseum.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Barnes Gallery ''Paintings of the East End,'' an exhibition of works by Cythia Loewen. April 4 through May 2. Reception: Saturday, April 4, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Barnes Gallery, 2 Nassau Boulevard. (516) 538-4503. 
 HEMPSTEAD Hofstra Museum ''A Celebration of Darwin's Legacy,'' an exhibition featuring reproductions by artists who have visually interpreted the ''Tree of Life'' theme developed by Darwin. Through May 22. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hofstra Museum, 112 Hofstra University. (516) 463-5672; 
 hofstra.edu/museum. 
 HUNTINGTON B.J. Spoke Gallery ''Tapestry Embrace,'' a mixed-media exhibition featuring works by Elinor Schoenfeld. Through April 30. Reception: April 4, 1 to 4 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. B. J. Spoke Gallery, 299 Main Street. (631) 549-5106; 
 bjspokegallery.com. 
 HUNTINGTONHeckscher Museum of Art ''Robert Rauschenberg and His Contemporaries: Recent Prints From Universal Limited Art Editions,'' an exhibition featuring examples from Rauschenberg's last print series, ''The Lotus Series,'' with imagery drawn from contemporary China. Through April 5. $8; 62 and over, $6; students 10 and over, $5; children under 10, free. Discounts for Huntington residents. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue. (631) 351-3250;
 heckscher.org. 
 NORTHPORT Northport Public Library ''Oceans of Imagination,'' an exhibition featuring works by Jeff A. Menges. Through Tuesday. Free. ''Watercolors,'' an exhibition featuring paintings by Faranguis Miremad. Through Tuesday. Free. ''Russia: An Odyssey,'' a multimedia travelogue with Herb Knobb, photographer. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Northport Public Library, 151 Laurel Avenue. (631) 261-6930; nenpl.org. 
 PLAINVIEW Plainview-Old Bethpage Public Library ''Abstract Expressions/Paintings,'' an exhibition of mixed-media paintings by Beth Goldberg. Through Tuesday. Free. Plainview-Old Bethpage Public Library, 999 Old Country Road. (516) 938-0077. 
 ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Andy Warhol Silkscreens,'' an exhibition showcasing some of Warhol's classic pop subjects, among them Marilyn Monroe, Mao Zedong, Superman, Campbell Soup cans and Martha Graham/The Kick. Through April 5. ''Facing Destiny: Children in European Portraiture (1500-1900).'' March 29 through May 25. ''Cathy McClure: Zoetrope, Circus and Robotic Animals,'' an exhibition featuring robotic animals and classic carnival entertainments. March 29 through May 25. ''Winslow Homer: Illustrating America,'' including more than 100 prints from illustrated weeklies and journals. Through May 25. Admission: $4 to $10; children under 5 and members, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; 
 nassaumuseum.com. 
 ST. JAMES Smithtown Township Arts Council ''A Pinch and a Dash,'' an annual art exhibition in celebration of Women's History Month. Through April 19. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Smithtown Township Arts Council, 660 Route 25A. (631) 862-6575;
 stacarts.org. 
 STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages ''Growing Up on Long Island,'' an exhibition that shows childhood over the past 200 years across the region. Through Oct. 25. $9 for adults, $7 for seniors 62 and older and $4 for students ages 6 and 7. Children under 6 and museum members are admitted free. Hours: Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. longislandmuseum.org; (631) 751-0066. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (94%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STATE PARKS (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1179 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3133 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts Jackie (The Joke Man) Martling, stand-up. April 4 at 8 p.m. $25 to $35. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; patchoguetheatre
 .com. BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts. ''Big Laughs in Bay Shore,'' featuring comedians from the tri-state area. Friday at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; boultoncenter.org. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 BABYLON Belmont Lake State Park Annual Egg Hunt, in three age groups: 4 and under, 5 and 6, and 7 to 9. Egg hunts will be held every 15 minutes. April 4 at 12:15 p.m. Free. Belmont Lake State Park, Deer Park Avenue. (631) 667-5055; 
 nysparks.com. 
 DIX HILLS Dix Hills Performing Arts Center ''Imagine,'' an interactive show featuring Thaddeus, a magician. March 29 at 2 p.m. $5 and $12. Dix Hills Performing Arts Center, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148; dhpac.org.
 GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum ''Circus Animal Hand Painting.'' Paint your hand to resemble your favorite circus animal. March 28 and 29. Free with museum admission. Barefoot Puppets presents ''Galapagos George,'' an ''eco-fable'' based on the true story of ''Lonesome George,'' a tortoise from the Galapagos Islands. March 29 at 1:30 p.m. $4 with museum admission ($3 for members), $8 for theater only. ''Li'l Chef and Me.'' Take part in the taping of a new children's cooking show. April 4 at 11 a.m. $4 to $10. ''Bread Hunt,'' a pre-Passover hunt where children learn about the holiday and its traditions. April 5, 1:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Free with museum admission.''Contraptions A to Z,'' an exhibition that allows visitors to experiment with playful mechanisms while exploring everything from art to literature and much more. Through May 18. Free with museum admission. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; licm.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Nassau Community College Classics for Kids presents ''The Mikado,'' a comic operetta performed by the New York Gilbert & Sullivan Players. March 29 at 1 and 3:30 p.m. $1.50. Nassau Community College, 1 Education Drive. (516) 572-7153. 
 GREENVALE Grace's Marketplace ''Mommy and Me Treats,'' Nita George, a pastry chef, will guide kids through the art of pastry decorating. April 11, 3 to 5 p.m. $40. Grace's Marketplace , 81 Glen Cove Road. (516) 621-5100;
 gracesmarketplace.com. 
 ORIENT Orient Beach State Park Annual Egg Hunt, with prizes and an appearance by the Spring Bunny. April 4 at 11 a.m. Free. Orient Beach State Park, Route 25. (631) 323-2440; nysparks.com. 
 OYSTER BAYTheodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center ''Egg-stravaganza!,'' a family egg hunt. April 11 at 1 p.m. $5 and $8. Theodore Roosevelt Sanctuary and Audubon Center, 134 Cove Road. (516) 922-3200. 
 ROSLYN HARBORNassau County Museum of Art ''Babar's Museum of Art,'' an exhibition for children at the Ridder MiniArtMuseum, through May 25. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 4:30 p.m. ''Family Sunday at the Museum,'' art activities, family tours of the exhibition from 1:30 p.m., Sundays, continuing, free with museum admission. Admission: $4 to $10; children under 5 and members, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337;
 nassaumuseum.com. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater Kidstreet family film series: ''Iron Giant,'' animated film. April 11. $7. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; baystreet.org. 
 SEA CLIFF The Center for Parents and Children ''Breakfast With the Bunny,'' with food, pictures, raffles and crafts. April 4, 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. $5; $20 per family. The Center for Parents and Children, 12 Main Avenue. (516) 671-4141; center
 forparentsandchildren.org/. 
 SMITHTOWN Caleb Smith State Park Preserve ''Watercolor Wonders.'' Create a watercolor collage; wear old clothes. April 4, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $3 and $4. Caleb Smith State Park Preserve, Jericho Turnpike. (631) 265-1054. 
 STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages ''Gardening With Children,'' Sharon Ott, a master gardener from Cornell University Cooperative Extension, will teach visitors the basics of gardening for developing green thumbs with their children and grandchildren. Wednesday at 2 p.m. Free with museum admission. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. (631) 751-0066; longislandmuseum.org. 
 YAPHANK Suffolk County Farm and Education Center ''Farmer for a Day.'' Meet farm animals and have some old-fashioned fun. April 4 at 10 a.m. $12. Suffolk County Farm and Education Center, County Road 21. (631) 852-4600; counties.cce.cornell.edu/suffolk/Programs/SCFhome.htm. 
 FILM
 HUNTINGTON Cinema Arts Center ''The Razor's Edge,'' film and workshop with Richard Schaub. March 29 at 4 p.m. $9 and $12. ''Courting Justice,'' a film about the women who make up 18 percent of South Africa's judiciary; screening followed by discussion with Ruth Cowan, filmmaker. April 5 at 4:30 p.m. $9 and $12. Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423-7611;
 cinemaartscentre.org. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center ''Two Lovers,'' romantic drama. Through March 29. $3 to $10. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500;
 whbpac.org. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts Glen Phillips, former front man and songwriter for Toad the Wet Sprocket. Thursday at 8 p.m. $22.50 and $27.50. Jane Monheit, jazz. April 10 at 8 p.m. $40 and $45. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; boultoncenter.org. 
 BAYPORT Bayport-Bluepoint High School ''Romantic Masterpieces,'' featuring the Bay Area Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Dr. Richard Wright, performing Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto with Manuel Larios, violin, and Tchaikovsky's Symphony No. 5. Friday at 8 p.m. Free. Bayport-Bluepoint High School, 200 Snedecor Avenue. (631) 286-1832. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts ''Brahms's Spiritual Requiem,'' with the Long Island Philharmonic Orchestra and Chorus. March 29 at 7:30 p.m. $38 to $68. ''Celebrating the String Quartet,'' featuring the Shanghai Quartet in a program of Ravel and Beethoven. April 5 at 3 p.m. $40. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; tilles
 center.org. 
 COMMACK Suffolk Y Jewish Community Center ''Sharing and Giving -- Cantorial Concert,'' featuring four Long Island cantors. March 29 at 6:30 p.m. $5 and $8. Suffolk Y Jewish Community Center, 74 Hauppauge Road. (631) 462-9800; suffolkyjcc.org. 
 DIX HILLS Dix Hills Performing Arts Center ''Cabaret at Its Best.'' Wednesday at 5 p.m. Free. Long Island High School Jazz Festival. Thursday at 9 a.m. Free. Dix Hills Performing Arts Center, 305 North Service Road. (631) 656-2148;
 dhpac.org. 
 GLEN HEAD North Shore High School North Shore Symphony Orchestra presents a concert featuring works by Beethoven and Mendelssohn. April 4 at 8 p.m. $10 and $15. North Shore High School, 450 Glen Cove Avenue. (516) 695-4476;
 northshoresymphonyorch.org. 
 HEMPSTEAD Monroe Lecture Center Theater ''Hofstra Celebrates Elie Siegmeister at 100,'' featuring performances by Hofstra faculty, staff and guest artists. March 29 at 2 p.m. $10 to $18. The American Chamber Ensemble's Woodwind Treasures concert, classical. April 4 at 8 p.m. $10, $15 and $18. Monroe Lecture Center Theater, California Avenue, Hofstra University, South Campus. (516) 463-6644; hofstra.edu. 
 HUNTINGTON Inter-Media Art Center Jesse Cook, guitarist. Friday at 8 p.m. $30 and $40. Inter-Media Art Center, 370 New York Avenue. (631) 549-2787; imactheater.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Old First Church ''In Search of Chopin,'' an exploration through words, music and images, presented by Robyn Carmichael, pianist, and Witold Kolankowski, narrator. March 29 at 4 p.m. $10 to $20. Old First Church, Route 25A. (631) 385-0373. 
 LONG BEACH Long Beach Public Library ''St. Patrick's Day Celebration,'' featuring Fiddler's Green, performing traditional music of Ireland. March 29 at 2 p.m. Free. Two of a Kind, musical duo, will perform a range of musical genres. April 5 at 2 p.m. Free. Long Beach Public Library, 111 West Park Avenue. (516) 432-7201. 
 LYNBROOK Lynbrook Library A Celtic Odyssey. March 29 at 3 p.m. $5 and $8. Lynbrook Library, Eldert Street and Carpenter Avenue. (516) 599-8630. 
 OLD WESTBURY Old Westbury Gardens Poetica Musica presents ''Afternoon of a Faun,'' featuring chamber works by Debussy, Ravel, Faure and others. April 5 at 8 p.m. $25; includes dessert reception. Old Westbury Gardens, 71 Old Westbury Road. (516) 333-0048;
 oldwestburygardens.org. 
 PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts Live in the Lobby: The Andrea Wolper Trio, jazz. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. $10. Zebra Returns, rock. April 11 at 7 p.m. $32 and $37. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; patchoguetheatre.com. 
 RIVERHEAD Tweed's Restaurant and Buffalo Bar A. F. Wargo, pianist, will perform a concert of classic Broadway and Hollywood songs from the Great American Song Book. March 28 and 29 at noon. Free. Tweed's Restaurant and Buffalo Bar, 17 Main Street. tweedsrestaurant.com; (631) 208-3151. 
 SMITHTOWN Smithtown Masonic Temple English Country Dance, presented by the Long Island Traditional Music Association, featuring live music of the 1600s and 1800s. April 5, 2 to 5 p.m. $14. Smithtown Masonic Temple, 34 River Road. (631) 757-3627. 
 SOUTHAMPTON Southampton Cultural Center Escher String Quartet performs a chamber music repertoire of the 19th century as well as baroque and modern classics. April 4 at 7 p.m. $10 and $20. Yarn/Wire, musical ensemble. April 5 at 3 p.m. $10 and $20. Southampton Cultural Center, 25 Pond Lane. (631) 287-4377;
 southamptonculturalcenter.org. 
 STONY BROOK The Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center North Shore Pro Musica Chamber Music Concert, featuring works by Mozart, Barber and Loeffler. April 5 at 5 p.m. $12 and $18. The Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center, 97P Main Street. (631) 689-5888; wmho.org. 
 STONY BROOK University Cafe Brooks Williams and Beaucoup Blue, blues. March 29, 2 to 5 p.m. $20 and $25. University Cafe, Stony Brook Union Building, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-1093. 
 WESTBURY Capital One Bank Theater Jay Black, vocalist. April 4 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. Capital One Bank Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; livenation.com. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Joe Bonamassa, blues/rock. April 4 at 8 p.m. $40 to $70. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; whbpac.org. 
 OUTDOORS
 GARDEN CITYAdelphi University, Post Hall Outdoor Sculpture Biennial, works by 14 sculptors. Through Wednesday. Free. Adelphi University, 1 South Avenue. (516) 877-4010; adelphi.edu.
 HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park ''History of Caumsett,'' a two-mile walk studying the park's social, economic, architectural and political history. April 5, 1 to 3 p.m. $4. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770. 
 MUTTONTOWN Hoffman Center ''Woodcock Walk.'' Join staff members and search for the woodcock in hopes of seeing its courtship ritual. April 4 at 6:30 p.m. $3 and $5. Hoffman Center, 6000 Route 25A. (516) 922-3200. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 GARDEN CITY Nassau Community College ''Literature Live!'' Dolores Dorantes and Laura Solorzano, Mexican poets, will read from their work in both Spanish and English. Monday at 11 a.m. Free. Nassau Community College, 1 Education Drive. (516) 572-7720. 
 NORTHPORT Northport Historical Society Museum ''Extraordinary Women of the 19th Century: The Story of NY Temperance Women and Suffragists You Didn't Know About.'' March 29 at 2 p.m. $3. Northport Historical Society Museum, 215 Main Street. 
 northporthistorical.org; (631) 757-9859. 
 THEATER
 BOHEMIA Airport Playhouse ''Death of a Salesman,'' by Arthur Miller. Through April 5. $14 to $22. ''Disney's High School Musical 2,'' musical. Through April 11. $15. Airport Playhouse, 218 Knickerbocker Avenue. airportplayhouse.com; (631) 589-7588. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts ''Movin' Out,'' Broadway show by Billy Joel and Twyla Tharp. Friday and April 4. $42 to $75. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C.W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; tillescenter.org. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater ''The Rabbit Hole,'' by David Lindsay-Abaire. Through April 12. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674;
 arenaplayers.org. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Second Stage Theater ''Four Dogs and a Bone,'' by William Shakespeare, Adam Long, Daniel Singer and Jess Borgenson. Through March 29. $18 and $22. Arena Players Second Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; arenaplayers.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Adelphi University Performing Arts Center ''10 Minute Play Festival,'' featuring short plays submitted from around the country and selected for production by a committee of students, staff and faculty. Thursday and Friday at 7:30 p.m.; April 4 at 2 and 8 p.m. $7 to $15. Adelphi University Performing Arts Center, 1 South Avenue. (516) 877-4000; aupac
 .adelphi.edu. 
 GARDEN CITY Nassau Community College ''The Kite Runner,'' a theatrical adaptation of the book by Khaled Hosseini. Monday at 9:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Free. Nassau Community College, 1 Education Drive. (516) 572-7153. 
 NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater ''Little Women,'' musical based on the story by Louisa May Alcott. Through April 19. $60. John W. Engeman Theater, 250 Main Street; johnwengemantheater.com; (631) 261-2900.
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''I Am My Own Wife,'' by Doug Wright. April 4 through April 26. $14 to $28. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; theaterthree.com. 
 QUOGUE Quogue Community Hall ''Six Degrees of Separation,'' by John Guare. Through April 5. $10 to $22. Quogue Community Hall, 126 Jessup Avenue. (631) 653-8955; hamptontheatre.org. 
 STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts ''National Acrobats of China.'' March 29 at 7 p.m. $34. Staller Center for the Arts, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-2787; staller.suny
 sb.edu. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum ''Poor Boy to Rockefeller: Long Island Oysters and Oystermen,'' an exhibition exploring the role of the oyster in the lives of Long Islanders over the centuries. Through Sept. 7. $4 and $5; children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 to 5 p.m. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; cshwhalingmuseum.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Barnes Gallery ''Paintings of the East End,'' an exhibition of works by Cythia Loewen. April 4 through May 2. Reception: Saturday, April 4, 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Barnes Gallery, 2 Nassau Boulevard. (516) 538-4503. 
 HEMPSTEAD Hofstra Museum ''A Celebration of Darwin's Legacy,'' an exhibition featuring reproductions by artists who have visually interpreted the ''Tree of Life'' theme developed by Darwin. Through May 22. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hofstra Museum, 112 Hofstra University. (516) 463-5672; 
 hofstra.edu/museum. 
 HUNTINGTON B.J. Spoke Gallery ''Tapestry Embrace,'' a mixed-media exhibition featuring works by Elinor Schoenfeld. Through April 30. Reception: April 4, 1 to 4 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. B. J. Spoke Gallery, 299 Main Street. (631) 549-5106; 
 bjspokegallery.com. 
 HUNTINGTONHeckscher Museum of Art ''Robert Rauschenberg and His Contemporaries: Recent Prints From Universal Limited Art Editions,'' an exhibition featuring examples from Rauschenberg's last print series, ''The Lotus Series,'' with imagery drawn from contemporary China. Through April 5. $8; 62 and over, $6; students 10 and over, $5; children under 10, free. Discounts for Huntington residents. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Heckscher Museum of Art, 2 Prime Avenue. (631) 351-3250;
 heckscher.org. 
 NORTHPORT Northport Public Library ''Oceans of Imagination,'' an exhibition featuring works by Jeff A. Menges. Through Tuesday. Free. ''Watercolors,'' an exhibition featuring paintings by Faranguis Miremad. Through Tuesday. Free. ''Russia: An Odyssey,'' a multimedia travelogue with Herb Knobb, photographer. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Northport Public Library, 151 Laurel Avenue. (631) 261-6930; nenpl.org. 
 PLAINVIEW Plainview-Old Bethpage Public Library ''Abstract Expressions/Paintings,'' an exhibition of mixed-media paintings by Beth Goldberg. Through Tuesday. Free. Plainview-Old Bethpage Public Library, 999 Old Country Road. (516) 938-0077. 
 ROSLYN HARBOR Nassau County Museum of Art ''Andy Warhol Silkscreens,'' an exhibition showcasing some of Warhol's classic pop subjects, among them Marilyn Monroe, Mao Zedong, Superman, Campbell Soup cans and Martha Graham/The Kick. Through April 5. ''Facing Destiny: Children in European Portraiture (1500-1900).'' March 29 through May 25. ''Cathy McClure: Zoetrope, Circus and Robotic Animals,'' an exhibition featuring robotic animals and classic carnival entertainments. March 29 through May 25. ''Winslow Homer: Illustrating America,'' including more than 100 prints from illustrated weeklies and journals. Through May 25. Admission: $4 to $10; children under 5 and members, free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; 
 nassaumuseum.com. 
 ST. JAMES Smithtown Township Arts Council ''A Pinch and a Dash,'' an annual art exhibition in celebration of Women's History Month. Through April 19. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Smithtown Township Arts Council, 660 Route 25A. (631) 862-6575;
 stacarts.org. 
 STONY BROOK Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages ''Growing Up on Long Island,'' an exhibition that shows childhood over the past 200 years across the region. Through Oct. 25. $9 for adults, $7 for seniors 62 and older and $4 for students ages 6 and 7. Children under 6 and museum members are admitted free. Hours: Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, 1200 Route 25A. longislandmuseum.org; (631) 751-0066. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HUNTINGTON: ''The Greatest Silence: Rape in the Congo,'' a documentary, followed by a discussion with Lisa F. Jackson, filmmaker, at the Cinema Arts Center on April 5 at 2 p.m. Tickets are $9 and $12. 423 Park Avenue. (631) 423- 7611
cinemaartscentre.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERNARD KALUME)
WESTBURY: Aretha Franklin will perform at the Capital One Bank Theater on April 11 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $71.50 and $81.50. 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334- 0800
livenation.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
LINDENHURST: The cast of ''The Dixie Swim Club,'' a comedy by Jessie Jones, Nicholas Hope and Jamie Wooten, at Studio Theater through April 5. Tickets are $14 to $22. 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700
broadhollow.org.
PORT WASHINGTON: Raul Malo, guitarist, will perfrom at the Jeanne Rimsky Theater at the Landmark on Main Street on Friday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $30 to $40. 232 Main Street. (516) 767-6444
 landmarkonmain street.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STATE PARKS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1180 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: For Wright and Dixon, the Drama Never Ends

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
 All game long, the tension grew minute by minute to a nearly unbearable pitch. Mostly, you could see it on the clenched faces of the coaches. One was going to survive an all-time Big East battle and advance to his first Final Four. The other was going to know professional heartbreak like he'd never known before.
 Jay Wright and Jamie Dixon have the look, cut and coiffed for coaching success. Wright to a greater extent, with a bit of a George Clooney thing going; Dixon, despite some hairline recession, with a quality comb-back and an angular face that breaks into an easy, confident smile. 
 Some college basketball coaches just have the look, along with the voice, but that doesn't automatically make them a commodity. That comes with winning, and Wright of Villanova and Dixon of Pittsburgh have done plenty of that, too. But as much as they each were deserving of victory Saturday night, only one could move on, and that was Wright, with 2 points and half a second to spare.
 ''You are crushed,'' he had said Friday when asked what it is like to be run off the N.C.A.A. road one exit before the Final Four, as he was by Florida three years ago. ''You are crushed.'' After this game -- Villanova 78, Pittsburgh 76 on a layup by Scottie Reynolds -- you knew why. You saw Dixon absorb the most painful Big East defeat in 24 years, or since the conference sent three teams to the Final Four and Rollie Massimino's Villanova team shocked Georgetown in the final in 1985.
 Told he had just coached in one of the great games in history, Dixon shook his head, sadly. ''Really, all it is about is disappointment for our guys,'' he said. 
 On a personal level, Dixon has experienced the kind of loss one never gets over. His sister, Maggie, died of heart arrhythmia three years ago after coaching the Army women's team into the tournament. She was 28. This was a basketball game -- a classic game, unquestionably -- but if Wright is to be believed, Dixon will find peace with the memory of those last frantic seconds, after Levance Fields tied the score at the free-throw line, but Dixon's defense didn't stop Reynolds from taking a pass in backcourt and going all the way to the rim. A coach's life will continue. Dixon's name, along with Wright's, may even be dropped as a candidate for vacant jobs -- Kentucky's now among them.
 ''It's a crazy business we're in,'' Wright had said Friday when someone raised the subject no coach wants to address publicly and certainly not on the threshold of career definition. ''I always used a line with our assistants when they complain about those things: It's like 'The Godfather,' this is the life we choose.'' 
 Could Wright -- who grew up in the Philadelphia suburbs, who said he watched teary eyed when the Wildcats beat Georgetown for the title, who was an assistant for five years under Massimino -- become the Jim Boeheim of Villanova? Could he and Dixon, in his sixth year as the coach at Pitt, lead the next generation of Big East lifers along with the Hoyas legacy John Thompson III?
 This is a conference that launched itself with coaching personalities that ran extra large. So it may sound strange to pose the following question about the Big East, which has Villanova and UConn going to Detroit next weekend and Louisville positioned Sunday to make it a threesome, but here goes: are the upper-tier Big East teams the generic power coach's opportunity of a lifetime, or are they more a place to build a resume on the way to the dream job and score?
 Yes, we know how much Jim Calhoun makes at Connecticut, and how he is not giving a dime back. But Ben Howland left Pitt for U.C.L.A., opening the door for Dixon, his assistant, in April 2003. Tom Crean bolted Marquette to rebuild at Indiana. John Beilein traded his Big East post at West Virginia for the Big Ten at Michigan. Some people believe that Rick Pitino, a longtime adventurer, is about due to get restless at Louisville. 
 ''I think our schools have invested in their programs,'' said Mike Tranghese, the Big East's departing commissioner. ''I think for one of our programs at the high end, to leave, it is going to take a very special school and a very special offer.''
 Maybe he's right about that after the month the Big East has had. Maybe Wright and Dixon do not want to stray too far from the fertile Northeast playgrounds, from Philadelphia and New York, where they have recruited so well. Maybe Wright, with this victory, has proved to himself as much as to the college basketball world that Villanova, the little Catholic university, can be big-time enough.
 He watched his Wildcats rally from 4 down with three minutes left, when Dwayne Anderson stole the ball from Brad Wanamaker, drove for a 3-point play and soon after hit one from behind the arc. He watched in horror as Reggie Redding threw a long inbounds pass -- too long and risky -- that gave Pitt the ball and life, Fields tying the game with 5.5 seconds left.
 Finally, Reynolds, a junior from Herndon, Va., had his forever five seconds. A defense broke down. A layup was made. Wright and Dixon met at midcourt for the briefest of embraces, emotional opposites passing in the night, the high and low of the life they choose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (61%); HEART DISEASE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1181 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2010 TOYOTA PRIUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: The Hybrid Superstar Now Shines Brighter

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
FEW cars on the road today have been genuine game-changers, but the Toyota Prius is certainly high among those that are. 
 Not only did the Prius help to prove that hybrid gas-electric powertrains can be feasible, reliable and desirable, the car has become the object of cultlike affection and a social statement. In the decade since the first Prius was introduced in the United States, more than 1.2 million have been sold worldwide. According to Toyota, 8 out of 10 Prius owners say they would buy another.
 In keeping with its plans to increase hybrid sales to one million a year in the next few years (from 241,405 in 2008), Toyota is introducing a third-generation Prius in May. Will the new version of this iconic vehicle sustain the respect of its admirers? Will making the 2010 Prius slightly bigger and slightly faster add to the appeal, or will the upsizing backfire? 
 Or is it enough to say that the new Prius -- regardless of how many adults it seats comfortably, how much luggage it carries or how the battery pack is now expected to last the life of the car -- is rated at 50 miles a gallon? 
 Ratings, you say, are one thing. What kind of mileage can an owner expect, on actual roads and in real driving conditions? That is a good question, but there is more than one answer.
 Toyota says the new car completed the government's test cycle with an economy rating of 51 m.p.g. in city driving and 48 m.p.g. on the highway. Combined mileage came out at an industry-leading 50 m.p.g. In much of the nation these days, you can fill the Prius's 11.9-gallon tank for less than $20.
 But get this: in my road testing of the new Prius, I managed 69 m.p.g. That happened on a 34-mile route of mostly stop-and-go driving, at an average speed of 27 m.p.h. A journalist who drove the same route averaged even better -- 74 m.p.g. -- although he admitted to driving so far below the speed limit on public roads that he considered himself lucky to have survived. 
 Will you, the prospective Prius buyer, have any chance of matching those numbers, at least while observing all traffic laws? 
 With practice, yes, but you will probably have to alter your driving style. My best mileage came when my foot moved on and off the accelerator like a teenager on the first day of driver's ed.
 Earlier, Akihiko Otsuka, the Prius's chief engineer, had claimed to average 62.9 m.p.g. on the same route, and issued a challenge to top that. When I and my fellow auto writer crushed it, he asked what technique we had used. ''It seems to respond well to pulse-and-glide,'' I said. 
 He grinned and nodded.
 Pulse-and-glide is the technique that I recently used to achieve 65 m.p.g. in another new hybrid, the 2010 Honda Insight. Basically, it consists of goosing the gas pedal for about 10 seconds to bring up the speed and torque efficiency of the gasoline engine, then gliding with your foot off the accelerator for a few seconds to bring in maximum benefit from the electric motors. You can monitor the effect this style is having by watching the ''instantaneous fuel consumption meter'' and the new ''hybrid system indicator'' graph on the information-laden dashboard display.
 The previous-generation Prius did not respond as well to this herky-jerky driving style, but the new car certainly does. My co-driver for this exercise, Rick Kranz of Automotive News, drove a steady, conservative speed on the route and averaged 56 m.p.g.
 ''Now try doing it with pulse-and-glide,'' I suggested.
 His average immediately jumped to 65 m.p.g. ''It works,'' he agreed. ''But it's a good way to make everyone carsick.''
 The Prius now offers three performance modes that the driver can select: EV for or electric-only, ECO for economy and POWER for, well, you get it.
 In EV mode it is possible to travel up to a mile -- at 24 m.p.h. or less --on battery power alone. But that discharges the battery, and it takes 20 to 30 miles of subsequent driving to recharge it.
 ECO moderates a driver's more erratic tendencies. It can be left on all the time, as it was for my 69 m.p.g. run.
 The POWER setting takes its toll on mileage, but enables runs from 0 to 60 m.p.h. in 9.8 seconds. That will not induce whiplash, but it is four-tenths of a second quicker than the 2009 Prius.
 One of Toyota's goals in redesigning the Prius was to minimize the disparity between the city and highway mileage. The difference was 7 m.p.g. with the original Prius of 2000-3. City averages were better because the car's Hybrid Synergy Drive system provided more electric assist in low-speed, stop-and-go operation. (In contrast, Honda's Integrated Motor Assist system provides electric assist to the gasoline engine at all speeds; hence, its hybrids get better mileage on the highway.)
 The fact that the difference is so small for the new Prius has much to do with a more efficient system for recirculating exhaust gases. ''To keep catalytic converters from melting, all conventional engines periodically richen the fuel mixture to cool things down,'' Mike Michels, a Toyota spokesman, explained. ''But that's wasteful.'' Cooling the gases helps, particularly on the highway.
 Emissions are also cleaner, although California still rates the Prius as a Super Ultra Low Emissions Vehicle. (It's a Partial Zero Emission Vehicle when running in electric-only mode).
 Perhaps more significant, the combined city-highway rating is 50 m.p.g. That easily beats any other car sold in the United States -- it is 8 m.p.g. better than the No. 2 contender, the Honda Civic Hybrid. It is also 400 percent better than the nation's thirstiest car, the Lamborghini Murcielago Roadster. 
 Consider, too, that the Prius is slightly larger than its predecessor, weighs 122 pounds more and has a bigger engine. So how can it get 5 more m.p.g. than the model it replaces?
 For one thing, the car's fractionally greater girth is put to better aerodynamic use. Sharp creases on the corners streamline airflow over the body, as does a longer spoiler, flat underbody panels and an optimized roof arch.
 Moving the roof's peak farther back also created more headroom in the rear seat. A bit more leg and shoulder room has also been carved out. 
 The Prius weighs a bit more (it's now 3,042 pounds) because of added crash protection measures. The car would have been heavier if the drivetrain hadn't been lightened by 20 percent.
 Also, the Prius's 98-horsepower gasoline engine (a 1.8-liter Atkinson-cycle in-line 4) is more powerful than the previous 76-horsepower 1.5-liter motor. Net horsepower, including the boost from the electric motors, has jumped to 134, from 110.
 Efficiency is further improved by eliminating drive belts for the air-conditioning compressor and the water pump, which is now electric. The nickel-metal-hydride battery pack is smaller and more efficient, as is the power control unit, electric motors and transaxle.
 The electric power steering unit is more precise, and changes to the front suspension also improve steering control and on-center feel. As a whole, the Prius, which now rides on a version of the midsize car platform shared with the Camry and the Lexus EX and RX, handles more like a real car and less like a science project.
 How much will this markedly improved package cost?
 That is another good question that has more than one answer. Prices have not been announced, and the most basic version, to be called Prius I, will not be available until later this year. It is likely to be priced comparably to the base 2009 model, which was $22,600. (Toyota said last week that it was planning a hybrid version of its Yaris subcompact that would compete more directly with the less expensive Honda Insight.)
 The mainstream version that goes on sale in May will be the Prius II, in the mid-$20,000 range. From there, there will be Priuses III, IV and V, with additional luxury features and higher prices.
 But wait, as the infomercials say, there's more. Stand-alone options like a navigation system, solar-cell roof ventilation, pre-collision automatic braking, radar cruise control, lane-minders and automated parallel parking are all in the works. Fully loaded, the Prius will easily top $30,000.
 INSIDE TRACK: When gas prices go back up, you'll wish you had one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GAME ON: The redesigned Prius has new mileage meters in its futuristic instrument panel.(AU1)
 INSIDE TRACK: When gas prices go back up, you'll wish you had one.(AU2) CHART: This Year's Hybrid Parade: Four-Door Gas Savers for the Family (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); DRIVER EDUCATION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1182 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Dena Rosenberg, Thaddeus Verhoff

 BODY:
Dena Elyse Rosenberg, a daughter of Denise Rosenberg and Gary M. Rosenberg of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Thaddeus Marcus Verhoff, a son of Gwendolyn Z. Verhoff of Washington and Dennis F. Verhoff of Reva, Va. Rabbi Edward Schecter officiated at Guastavino's, an event space in New York. 
 The bride, 32, graduated with honors from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., and is pursuing a master's in literary cultures at New York University.
 She is a paralegal at the New York law firm Rosenberg & Estis, which specializes in commercial real estate. Her father is a founder of the firm and the managing partner responsible for the transactions, leasing and appeals department. Her mother is a board member of the Hastings Education Foundation, which raises money for the town's three public schools. 
 The bridegroom, also 32, works in New York as a Web design manager in the sales, marketing and communications division of the Corporate Executive Board, a business consulting firm. He graduated from St. John's College in Annapolis, Md.
 His mother teaches English as a second language at Garrison Elementary School and the Takoma Educational Center, both in Washington. His father, owns Willow Creek Farm, an organic vegetable farm in Reva. The bridegroom is a stepson of Donna L. DeAngelis.
 The bride and bridegroom met over the Fourth of July weekend in 1996, when Ms. Rosenberg and a friend stayed in Washington as houseguests of Mr. Verhoff's oldest friend. Ms. Rosenberg and Mr. Verhoff saw each other now and then over the years and even kissed five years later at a wedding. But they were seeing others and were in different cities. 
 In 2005, both were unattached when Mr. Verhoff contacted Ms. Rosenberg. That led to a date on New Year's Eve, which eventually led to repeated train travel between New York and Washington. 
 Mr. Verhoff moved to New York in 2007, and by that summer he and Ms. Rosenberg had devised a list of joint goals: lose weight, get new jobs, and become engaged. 
 ''We were taking a gut check,'' Mr. Verhoff said. '' We had to step back and see what we were really talking about and make sure we were heading in the same direction.'' 
 The year, however, ended without an engagement. When they both went to her grandmother's bat mitzvah ceremony -- something her grandmother had delayed until the age of 84 -- their rabbi got into the act. 
 Mr. Verhoff recalled being taken aside by Rabbi Schecter, the same rabbi who led yesterday's ceremony, who asked: ''Are you just going to live together or get married?'' 
 He reassured the rabbi by saying, ''Things are in the works, don't worry.' 
 A week later, during a run with Ms. Rosenberg in Central Park, he got down on one knee and proposed. 
 Totally off guard, Ms. Rosenberg agreed, told him to ''shut up,'' and then punched his shoulder, she remembered. 
 As they resumed their run, Ms. Rosenberg glanced in disbelief at the ring on her finger and giggled hysterically. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PARALEGALS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (55%)

COMPANY: CORPORATE EXECUTIVE BOARD CO (56%)

TICKER: CEB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MARYLAND USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1183 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: More Fights Over Child Support Surface, as the Number of Pink Slips Grows

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
The same story echoed a dozen times through Room E8 of Manhattan Family Court in a single day: fathers, pinched by the recession, pleading for a reduction in child support. 
 A salesman at Saks Fifth Avenue who is estranged from his teenage daughter said he feared he would be included in the next round of layoffs expected at his store. 
 A man who had been laid off from a factory said he managed to find work at Mets games, but for less pay, $9 an hour. Another man, on the verge of eviction, begged for a break from his $315 monthly payments. 
 ''Last week was my child's birthday, and I couldn't get him a present,'' he said, burying his head in his hands. ''This is killing me.'' 
 Since January, Family Court in New York has been filled with urgent requests like these, alarming judges and overwhelming calendars with what are known as modification cases. 
 Similar patterns are unfolding across the country: In Clark County, Nev., which includes Las Vegas, the district attorney's family support division has received an unusually high number of calls from parents who previously paid diligently but are now having trouble. 
 The child-support office in Milwaukee saw a 20 percent spike in the number of custodial parents seeking enforcement of support orders last year, with most of the increase coming in the fall as the unemployment rate there began to creep upward. 
 To explain why they can no longer pay as much per month, the parents, typically fathers, cite layoffs, cutbacks in work hours and the loss of homes to foreclosure. Presented with documentation of falling incomes and rising expenses, judges often have little choice but to grant the downward adjustments, even in the face of protests from mothers struggling to support children. 
 Magistrate Matthew Troy, a stocky, gregarious man with a white horseshoe mustache who is one of 15 judges hearing such cases in Manhattan Family Court, said the decisions can be brutal. ''It's not a trickle down -- it's a direct route,'' he said of the effects, especially in poor families. ''Everybody who relies on the father gets hit.''
 The reductions force some families to apply for welfare for the first time, while others become increasingly dependent on food stamps or risk eviction when they come up short on rent. 
 ''In many cases, it's devastating,'' said C. A. Watts, the director of the district attorney's family support division for Clark County. ''Some of the parents absolutely depend on that money coming in. It's a domino effect. The custodians need the money to feed and clothe the children. If the money stops, it puts a burden on the custodial parent, and they have to come up with funds another way. They're not going to let their children starve.''
 The amount of child support varies based on individual family circumstances, but New York State begins with these guidelines: A noncustodial parent generally pays 17 percent of gross income for one child, 25 percent for two children and up to 35 percent for five or more children, as well as a share of child care, medical and education expenses. 
 ''We see everything,'' said Peter Passidomo, chief of the state's 125 support magistrates. ''High income, low income, across the board. It's just like in an intact family where the income earner has lost the job.''
 Though Family Court in New York is open to the news media, names of the parties are typically not revealed.
 Judge Troy, who has been a Family Court judge since 1999, said that in recent weeks he had seen a former Lehman Brothers executive whose $7 million in stock had disappeared, leaving him unable to pay his child support. And then there was the divorced couple whose combined income had surpassed $400,000 -- until they both lost their jobs and were scrambling to figure out how to pay two private-school tuitions on roughly $800 a week in unemployment benefits.
 Most, though, are more like the man who went from a decent-paying factory job to working in food service during Mets games in Queens. Judge Troy lowered his monthly payment for his three teenagers to $50 per month, from $686. Otherwise, he feared, the father would be unable to meet his obligation and face a more drastic punishment: jail.
 ''It wasn't his fault he lost his job,'' Judge Troy said. ''I don't want to throw a guy like that in the clink.''
 The Saks salesman, on the other hand, whose 19-year-old daughter was asking for support for the first time, was ordered to pay $544 a month. (New York allows child support to be paid for dependents beyond age 18.)
 In the case of the father who could not buy a birthday present for his son, Mr. Troy agreed that $315 a month -- or 23 percent of his $16,640 salary -- was too much. But the child's mother, over speakerphone from her home in Georgia, angrily protested that she was already paying $1,800 a month for the child's expenses.
 ''He is capable of getting another job,'' she said. ''I see no reason for him to get any kind of modification of his child support.''
 The judge ultimately took the woman off speaker, and instead spoke quietly into the telephone to calm her down. He lowered the father's payments to $50 a month (about 4 percent of his gross income).
 ''Somebody's got to make the call,'' Judge Troy said after the hearing had adjourned. ''That's the call I'm making.''
 Mr. Passidomo said magistrates throughout the state have grown increasingly concerned about the volume and breadth of the modification requests. Upstairs from Mr. Troy, in Room 8C3, Magistrate Sudeep Kaur said she sees herself as ''very strict about reducing child support,'' but lately has had little choice in a spate of cases in which fathers have come to her after losing their jobs.
 ''It really has to be something beyond their control,'' she said. 
 Lisa J. Marks, the director of Child Support Enforcement in Milwaukee, said her office has seen an influx of noncustodial fathers who have lost jobs in sales, construction and the service industry.
 ''We have seen individuals who have had fairly good income, and it's not there any more,'' she said. 
 ''It's really a teetering issue for child support offices,'' Ms. Marks said. ''You have one party who is really desperate because they're not getting the full amount of support. And their expenses have increased, and their hours are probably decreasing.''
 On the flip side are the fathers, and ''they don't have a job at all anymore,'' she said. ''You try to maintain fairness.'' 
 The court will typically order fathers to pay a portion of their unemployment benefits in child support. But if their unemployment runs out, and they have no income, the court will temporarily resort to what is called ''open support,'' Ms. Marks said. What that means, she explained, is ''you don't have to pay any child support.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAMILY COURTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EVICTION (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); FORECLOSURE (50%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1184 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Too Down to Rise Up

BYLINE: By SUDHIR VENKATESH. 
Sudhir Venkatesh, a professor of sociology at Columbia, is the author of ''Gang Leader for a Day: A Rogue Sociologist Takes to the Streets.''

 BODY:
IN Chicago, during the summer of 1992, I watched a rally explode into a riot. Unruly public housing tenants were protesting high prices at local grocery stores. A request to speak with a manager turned into shouts and screams when the proprietor was spotted scurrying out the back door. In minutes, bottles flew overhead, gangs began shooting indiscriminately, people shouted for the heads of the management, and mothers scrambled to shelter infants from flying glass and bullets. In the eyes of the rioters, I could see both anger and euphoria. 
 These days, we are hearing a lot about ''populist rage,'' but so far no riots have broken out in front of the Treasury Department or the A.I.G. headquarters. The pundits assure us that Americans are furious, disgusted, mad as hell, but cabinet officials and chief executives haven't been confronted by throngs of angry citizens. In fact, the only mass disturbance to make news lately was at an ''America's Next Top Model'' audition, where three people were arrested on charges of ''inciting a riot'' -- the cause of that uprising, for the record, was not the financial crisis. 
 The texture of discontent (or lack thereof) can say a lot about a nation, and that Americans today are less likely to rebel may not be an entirely positive sign. 
 It certainly doesn't mean we have more love, patience or tolerance for one another. Indeed, it may mean just the opposite, that we tend not to trust one another and that we are more alienated from our neighbors than ever before. The lack of direct action could signal the weakening of a social contract that keeps people meaningfully invested in the fate of our country -- which may, in turn, be hindering our ability to resolve this crisis. 
 Before blogs and radio call-in shows, people joined forces and turned to the streets as their most effective means of expression; a unified, angry crowd was often sufficient to win concessions from employers and governments. And so most rebellions of the 20th century were over bread-and-butter issues like unsafe work conditions, wages and high prices for basic commodities. Even ''race riots'' were usually motivated by competition between ethnic groups over access to jobs and housing subsidies. 
 But some outbreaks of lawlessness were also indicators of strong, shared sentiments and were driven by a sense of higher purpose. For example, in 1919 Chicago, black soldiers returned home from World War I to find segregated ghettos, white-dominated unions and racist government practices. Many joined their neighbors who battled white youth and police officers in the streets. They had fought an enemy overseas; now it was their moral duty to fight injustice at home. 
 Today widespread anger and collective passivity exist side by side. To explain this seeming contradiction, we might look for clues -- as so many are doing -- in 1930s America. Then, as now, the citizenry reacted angrily to high unemployment, mass layoffs and a crippled banking system. 
 But it was only several years after the stock market crash that large-scale protests, bread riots and street rebellions began to occur in small towns and big cities. That's the most pertinent lesson of the Great Depression: people waited, with relative patience, for years for some government response before anyone looted a grocery store or fought off police officers who were evicting families. So it's possible that if our economic hardships endure, civil unrest could follow. 
 But if American anger remains corralled on the Internet, into e-mail messages to Congress and in sporadic small-group protests, it is unlikely that the Obama administration will do much to assuage the anger of taxpayers. Administration officials certainly don't seem concerned that rage will heat up and overflow; after all, anticipating unrest would mean a broad and intensive campaign to shore up housing, food and welfare safety nets. The proposed budget contains a few such line items, but a comprehensive, coordinated program to prevent violence and defuse anger would need sustained commitments from mayors, service providers and civic leaders. 
 Perhaps the lack of concern is warranted, as several factors make widespread revolt less likely today. Our cities are no longer dense, overcrowded industrial centers where unionized laborers and disgruntled strikers might take a public stand. Concentrated inner-city poverty has declined, too, so don't expect 1960s-style ghetto unrest. 
 Our urban centers are instead corporate hubs and the victims of this recession include hundreds of thousands of white-collar workers. For obvious reasons, these folks tend not to have the particular sense of grievance -- that a select few are receiving preferential treatment, that they're on the losing end of a rigged game -- that usually sets off a conflagration. 
 And in today's cities, even when we share intimate spaces, we tend to be quite distant from one another. Mass disturbances are not highly orchestrated ballets. They require spontaneous interaction, a call and response among unidentified cries of rage, the possibility for a unified mass to form from a gathering of loosely connected individuals. 
 But these days, technology separates us and makes more of our communication indirect, impersonal and emotionally flat. With headsets on and our hands busily texting, we are less aware of one another's behavior in public space. Count the number of people with cellphones and personal entertainment devices when you walk down a street. Self-involved bloggers, readers of niche news, all of us listening to our personal playlists: we narrowly miss each other. Effective rebellions require that we sing in unison. 
 We may also have anger fatigue. Each day brings more layoffs and more news of taxpayer-financed corporate office renovations. Add to this the Iraq war, which is six years old this month, and a national debt that will likely rise by trillions. Such reports provoke fury but after some time, even the righteously indignant can tire and accept the outrageous as status quo. 
 Ultimately, however, what could keep the lid on unrest is the very issue that has pushed us toward the cliff: our high levels of personal and household debt. The average American owes about $9,000 on credit cards alone. Indebtedness redirects an individual's energies inward: failing to pay the mortgage and college tuition can bring up feelings of anxiety, shame and a sense of personal failure. 
 It's easy to feel that one isn't working hard enough, that one should try harder to save money or take on additional work. To rebel publicly, even to engage politically, would mean exposing your own inadequacies, so most people just hunker down and keep plugging away at those monthly payments. 
 As our shame grows, we shutter ourselves inside. Afraid of acknowledging our anger and unable to join those similarly suffering, we grow distant. Worse, we judge quickly and harshly the actions of others; we devolve into snark, which will never lead to meaningful change. 
 To restore our social bonds, each one of us must overcome our isolating feelings of embarrassment and humiliation and understand that this is a shared plight. We'll also have to accept that anger, real anger, has a role to play in producing collective catharsis and fostering healing. 
 Fury, after all, can manifest itself in more productive ways than urban rioting or cable-TV ranting. Fury can inspire real protest, nonviolent civil disobedience, even good old-fashioned, town-hall meetings. That's how we'll recover our public life and perhaps help one another through this crisis -- storming angrily into the streets and then, once we're out there, actually talking to one another.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE AND STINA JOHANSSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARRESTS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); WORLD WAR I (60%); ETHNICITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1185 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 8268 words

HEADLINE: The Civil Heretic

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS DAWIDOFF. 
Nicholas Dawidoff, a contributing writer for the magazine, is the author of four books, most recently ''The Crowd Sounds Happy.''

 BODY:
FOR MORE THAN HALF A CENTURY the eminent physicist Freeman Dyson has quietly resided in Princeton, N.J., on the wooded former farmland that is home to his employer, the Institute for Advanced Study, this country's most rarefied community of scholars. Lately, however, since coming ''out of the closet as far as global warming is concerned,'' as Dyson sometimes puts it, there has been noise all around him. Chat rooms, Web threads, editors' letter boxes and Dyson's own e-mail queue resonate with a thermal current of invective in which Dyson has discovered himself variously described as ''a pompous twit,'' ''a blowhard,'' ''a cesspool of misinformation,'' ''an old coot riding into the sunset'' and, perhaps inevitably, ''a mad scientist.'' Dyson had proposed that whatever inflammations the climate was experiencing might be a good thing because carbon dioxide helps plants of all kinds grow. Then he added the caveat that if CO2 levels soared too high, they could be soothed by the mass cultivation of specially bred ''carbon-eating trees,'' whereupon the University of Chicago law professor Eric Posner looked through the thick grove of honorary degrees Dyson has been awarded -- there are 21 from universities like Georgetown, Princeton and Oxford -- and suggested that ''perhaps trees can also be designed so that they can give directions to lost hikers.'' Dyson's son, George, a technology historian, says his father's views have cooled friendships, while many others have concluded that time has cost Dyson something else. 
There is the suspicion that, at age 85, a great scientist of the 20th century is no longer just far out, he is far gone -- out of his beautiful mind.
 But in the considered opinion of the neurologist Oliver Sacks, Dyson's friend and fellow English expatriate, this is far from the case. ''His mind is still so open and flexible,'' Sacks says. Which makes Dyson something far more formidable than just the latest peevish right-wing climate-change denier. Dyson is a scientist whose intelligence is revered by other scientists -- William Press, former deputy director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory and now a professor of computer science at the University of Texas, calls him ''infinitely smart.'' Dyson -- a mathematics prodigy who came to this country at 23 and right away contributed seminal work to physics by unifying quantum and electrodynamic theory -- not only did path-breaking science of his own; he also witnessed the development of modern physics, thinking alongside most of the luminous figures of the age, including Einstein, Richard Feynman, Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi, Hans Bethe, Edward Teller, J. Robert Oppenheimer and Edward Witten, the ''high priest of string theory'' whose office at the institute is just across the hall from Dyson's. Yet instead of hewing to that fundamental field, Dyson chose to pursue broader and more unusual pursuits than most physicists -- and has lived a more original life. 
 Among Dyson's gifts is interpretive clarity, a penetrating ability to grasp the method and significance of what many kinds of scientists do. His thoughts about how science works appear in a series of lucid, elegant books for nonspecialists that have made him a trusted arbiter of ideas ranging far beyond physics. Dyson has written more than a dozen books, including ''Origins of Life'' (1999), which synthesizes recent discoveries by biologists and geologists into an evaluation of the double-origin hypothesis, the possibility that life began twice; ''Disturbing the Universe'' (1979) tries among other things to reconcile science and humanity. ''Weapons and Hope'' (1984) is his meditation on the meaning and danger of nuclear weapons that won a National Book Critics Circle Award. Dyson's books display such masterly control of complex matters that smart young people read him and want to be scientists; older citizens finish his books and feel smart. 
 Yet even while probing and sifting, Dyson is always whimsically gazing into the beyond. As a boy he sketched plans for English rocket ships that could explore the stars, and then, in midlife, he helped design an American spacecraft to be powered by exploding atomic bombs -- a secret Air Force project known as Orion. Dyson remains an armchair astronaut who speculates with glee about the coming of cheap space travel, when families can leave an overcrowded earth to homestead on asteroids and comets, swooping around the universe via solar sail craft. Dyson is convinced that our current ''age of computers'' will soon give way to ''the age of domesticated biotechnology.'' Bio-tech, he writes in his book, ''Infinite in All Directions'' (1988), ''offers us the chance to imitate nature's speed and flexibility,'' and he imagines the furniture and art that people will ''grow'' for themselves, the pet dinosaurs they will ''grow'' for their children, along with an idiosyncratic menagerie of genetically engineered cousins of the carbon-eating tree: termites to consume derelict automobiles, a potato capable of flourishing on the dry red surfaces of Mars, a collision-avoiding car. 
 These ideas attract derision similar to Dyson's essays on climate change, but he is an undeterred octogenarian futurist. ''I don't think of myself predicting things,'' he says. ''I'm expressing possibilities. Things that could happen. To a large extent it's a question of how badly people want them to. The purpose of thinking about the future is not to predict it but to raise people's hopes.'' Formed in a heretical and broad-thinking tradition of British public intellectuals, Dyson left behind a brooding England still stricken by two bloody world wars to become an optimistic American immigrant with tremendous faith in the creative imagination's ability to invent technologies that would overcome any predicament. And according to the physicist and former Caltech president Marvin Goldberger, Dyson is himself the living embodiment of that kind of ingenuity. ''You point Freeman at a problem and he'll solve it,'' Goldberger says. ''He's extraordinarily powerful.'' Dyson seems to see the world as an interdisciplinary set of problems out there for him to evaluate. Climate change is the big scientific issue of our time, so naturally he finds it irresistible. But to Dyson this is really only one more charged conundrum attracting his interest just as nuclear weapons and rural poverty have. That is to say, he is a great problem-solver who is not convinced that climate change is a great problem.
 Dyson is well aware that ''most consider me wrong about global warming.'' That educated Americans tend to agree with the conclusion about global warming reached earlier this month at the International Scientific Conference on Climate Change in Copenhagen (''inaction is inexcusable'') only increases Dyson's resistance. Dyson may be an Obama-loving, Bush-loathing liberal who has spent his life opposing American wars and fighting for the protection of natural resources, but he brooks no ideology and has a withering aversion to scientific consensus. The Nobel physics laureate Steven Weinberg admires Dyson's physics -- he says he thinks the Nobel committee fleeced him by not awarding his work on quantum electrodynamics with the prize -- but Weinberg parts ways with his sensibility: ''I have the sense that when consensus is forming like ice hardening on a lake, Dyson will do his best to chip at the ice.'' 
 Dyson says he doesn't want his legacy to be defined by climate change, but his dissension from the orthodoxy of global warming is significant because of his stature and his devotion to the integrity of science. Dyson has said he believes that the truths of science are so profoundly concealed that the only thing we can really be sure of is that much of what we expect to happen won't come to pass. In ''Infinite in All Directions,'' he writes that nature's laws ''make the universe as interesting as possible.'' This also happens to be a fine description of Dyson's own relationship to science. In the words of Avishai Margalit, a philosopher at the Institute for Advanced Study, ''He's a consistent reminder of another possibility.'' When Dyson joins the public conversation about climate change by expressing concern about the ''enormous gaps in our knowledge, the sparseness of our observations and the superficiality of our theories,'' these reservations come from a place of experience. Whatever else he is, Dyson is the good scientist; he asks the hard questions. He could also be a lonely prophet. Or, as he acknowledges, he could be dead wrong. 
 IT WAS FOUR YEARS AGO that Dyson began publicly stating his doubts about climate change. Speaking at the Frederick S. Pardee Center for the Study of the Longer-Range Future at Boston University, Dyson announced that ''all the fuss about global warming is grossly exaggerated.'' Since then he has only heated up his misgivings, declaring in a 2007 interview with Salon.com that ''the fact that the climate is getting warmer doesn't scare me at all'' and writing in an essay for The New York Review of Books, the left-leaning publication that is to gravitas what the Beagle was to Darwin, that climate change has become an ''obsession'' -- the primary article of faith for ''a worldwide secular religion'' known as environmentalism. Among those he considers true believers, Dyson has been particularly dismissive of Al Gore, whom Dyson calls climate change's ''chief propagandist,'' and James Hansen, the head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York and an adviser to Gore's film, ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' Dyson accuses them of relying too heavily on computer-generated climate models that foresee a Grand Guignol of imminent world devastation as icecaps melt, oceans rise and storms and plagues sweep the earth, and he blames the pair's ''lousy science'' for ''distracting public attention'' from ''more serious and more immediate dangers to the planet.'' 
 A particularly distressed member of that public was Dyson's own wife, Imme, who, after seeing the film in a local theater with Dyson when it was released in 2006, looked at her husband out on the sidewalk and, with visions of drowning polar bears still in her eyes, reproached him: ''Everything you told me is wrong!'' she cried.
 ''The polar bears will be fine,'' he assured her. 
 Not long ago Dyson sat in his institute office, a chamber so neat it reminds Dyson's friend, the writer John McPhee, of a Japanese living room. On shelves beside Dyson were books about stellar evolution, viruses, thermodynamics and terrorism. ''The climate-studies people who work with models always tend to overestimate their models,'' Dyson was saying. ''They come to believe models are real and forget they are only models.'' Dyson speaks in calm, clear tones that carry simultaneous evidence of his English childhood, the move to the United States after completing his university studies at Cambridge and more than 50 years of marriage to the German-born Imme, but his opinions can be barbed, especially when a conversation turns to climate change. Climate models, he says, take into account atmospheric motion and water levels but have no feeling for the chemistry and biology of sky, soil and trees. ''The biologists have essentially been pushed aside,'' he continues. ''Al Gore's just an opportunist. The person who is really responsible for this overestimate of global warming is Jim Hansen. He consistently exaggerates all the dangers.'' 
 Dyson agrees with the prevailing view that there are rapidly rising carbon-dioxide levels in the atmosphere caused by human activity. To the planet, he suggests, the rising carbon may well be a MacGuffin, a striking yet ultimately benign occurrence in what Dyson says is still ''a relatively cool period in the earth's history.'' The warming, he says, is not global but local, ''making cold places warmer rather than making hot places hotter.'' Far from expecting any drastic harmful consequences from these increased temperatures, he says the carbon may well be salubrious -- a sign that ''the climate is actually improving rather than getting worse,'' because carbon acts as an ideal fertilizer promoting forest growth and crop yields. ''Most of the evolution of life occurred on a planet substantially warmer than it is now,'' he contends, ''and substantially richer in carbon dioxide.'' Dyson calls ocean acidification, which many scientists say is destroying the saltwater food chain, a genuine but probably exaggerated problem. Sea levels, he says, are rising steadily, but why this is and what dangers it might portend ''cannot be predicted until we know much more about its causes.'' 
 For Hansen, the dark agent of the looming environmental apocalypse is carbon dioxide contained in coal smoke. Coal, he has written, ''is the single greatest threat to civilization and all life on our planet.'' Hansen has referred to railroad cars transporting coal as ''death trains.'' Dyson, on the other hand, told me in conversations and e-mail messages that ''Jim Hansen's crusade against coal overstates the harm carbon dioxide can do.'' Dyson well remembers the lethal black London coal fog of his youth when, after a day of visiting the city, he would return to his hometown of Winchester with his white shirt collar turned black. Coal, Dyson says, contains ''real pollutants'' like soot, sulphur and nitrogen oxides, ''really nasty stuff that makes people sick and looks ugly.'' These are ''rightly considered a moral evil,'' he says, but they ''can be reduced to low levels by scrubbers at an affordable cost.'' He says Hansen ''exploits'' the toxic elements of burning coal as a way of condemning the carbon dioxide it releases, ''which cannot be reduced at an affordable cost, but does not do any substantial harm.'' 
 Science is not a matter of opinion; it is a question of data. Climate change is an issue for which Dyson is asking for more evidence, and leading climate scientists are replying by saying if we wait for sufficient proof to satisfy you, it may be too late. That is the position of a more moderate expert on climate change, William Chameides, dean of the Nicholas School of the Environment and Earth Sciences at Duke University, who says, ''I don't think it's time to panic,'' but contends that, because of global warming, ''more sea-level rise is inevitable and will displace millions; melting high-altitude glaciers will threaten the food supplies for perhaps a billion or more; and ocean acidification could undermine the food supply of another billion or so.'' Dyson strongly disagrees with each of these points, and there follows, as you move back and forth between the two positions, claims and counterclaims, a dense thicket of mitigating scientific indicators that all have the timbre of truth and the ring of potential plausibility. One of Dyson's more significant surmises is that a warming climate could be forestalling a new ice age. Is he wrong? No one can say for sure. Beyond the specific points of factual dispute, Dyson has said that it all boils down to ''a deeper disagreement about values'' between those who think ''nature knows best'' and that ''any gross human disruption of the natural environment is evil,'' and ''humanists,'' like himself, who contend that protecting the existing biosphere is not as important as fighting more repugnant evils like war, poverty and unemployment.
 Embedded in all of Dyson's strong opinions about public policy is a dual spirit of social activism and uneasiness about class dating all the way back to Winchester, where he was raised in the 1920s and '30s by his father, George Dyson, the son of a Yorkshire blacksmith. George was the music instructor at Winchester College, an old and prestigious secondary school, and a composer. Dyson's mother, Mildred Atkey, came from a more prosperous Wimbledon family that had its own tennis court. Together they raised Dyson and his sister, Alice, in what Dyson calls a ''watered-down Church of England Christianity'' that regarded religion as a guide to living rather than any system of belief. The emphasis on tolerance, charity and community -- and the free time afforded by the luxury of four servants -- led Mildred to organize a club for teenage girls and a birth-control clinic. These institutions meshed uneasily with her patrician Victorian sensibilities. The girls were never, Dyson says, ''considered equals,'' and Mildred told him with amusement about the young mother who walked in carrying a red-headed infant. ''What a beautiful baby,'' Mildred reported saying. ''Does he take after his father?''
 ''Oh, I couldn't tell you, Mum,'' came the reply. ''He kept his hat on.''
 Winchester is a medieval town in which, Dyson writes, he felt that everyone was looking backward, mourning all the young men lost to one world war while silently anticipating his own generation's impending demise. He renounced the nostalgia, the servants, the hard-line social castes. But what he liked about growing up in England was the landscape. The country's successful alteration of wilderness and swamp had created a completely new green ecology, allowing plants, animals and humans to thrive in ''a community of species.'' Dyson has always been strongly opposed to the idea that there is any such thing as an optimal ecosystem -- ''life is always changing'' -- and he abhors the notion that men and women are something apart from nature, that ''we must apologize for being human.'' Humans, he says, have a duty to restructure nature for their survival.
 All this may explain why the same man could write ''we live on a shrinking and vulnerable planet which our lack of foresight is rapidly turning into a slum'' and yet gently chide the sort of Americans who march against coal in Washington. Dyson has great affection for coal and for one big reason: It is so inexpensive that most of the world can afford it. ''There's a lot of truth to the statement Greens are people who never had to worry about their grocery bills,'' he says. (''Many of these people are my friends,'' he will also tell you.) To Dyson, ''the move of the populations of China and India from poverty to middle-class prosperity should be the great historic achievement of the century. Without coal it cannot happen.'' That said, Dyson sees coal as the interim kindling of progress. In ''roughly 50 years,'' he predicts, solar energy will become cheap and abundant, and ''there are many good reasons for preferring it to coal.'' 
 THE WORDS COLLEAGUES COMMONLY use to describe Dyson include ''unassuming'' and ''modest,'' and he seems the very embodiment of Newton's belief that a man should strive for simplicity and avoid confusion in life. Dyson has been in residence at the institute since 1953, a time when Albert Einstein shared his habit of walking to work there, which Dyson still does seven days a week, to write on a computer and solve any problems that come across his desk with paper and pencil. (In his prime, legend held that he never used the eraser.) He and Imme have spent 51 happy years together in the same house, a white clapboard just over the garden fence from the stucco affair once inhabited by their former neighbors, the Oppenheimers. On some Sundays the Dysons pile into a car still decorated with an Obama bumper sticker and drive to running races, at which Dyson can be found at the finish line loudly cheering for the 72-year-old Imme, a master's marathon champion. On many other weekends, they visit some of their 16 grandchildren. During the holiday season the Dysons routinely attend five parties a week, cocktail-soiree sprints at which guests tend to find him open-minded and shy: when friends' wives give him a hug, he blushes. One of Dyson's daughters, the Internet vizier Esther Dyson, says her father raised her without a television so she would read more, and has always been ''just as interested in talking to'' the latest graduate student to make the pilgrimage to Princeton ''as he is the famous person at the next table.'' Oliver Sacks says that Dyson has ''a genius for friendship.''
 But the truth is that Dyson is an elusive particle. To Edward Witten it is clear that Dyson has little use for string theory, the cutting-edge ''theory of everything'' that links quantum mechanics and relativity in an effort to describe no less than the nature of all things. Even so, Witten admits that there is a fever-dream quality to his conversations with Dyson: ''I don't always know what he disagrees with entirely. His attitudes are complicated. There are many layers.'' Other people can be similarly intrigued and baffled. When I began spending time with Dyson and asked who his close friends are, the only name he mentioned was John McPhee's, which surprised McPhee since he said he doesn't often speak with Dyson even though McPhee teaches nearby at Princeton University. All six of Dyson's children describe him as a loving, intensely devoted father and yet also suggest that this is a parent with, in the words of his son, George, core parts of him that have always seemed ''remote.'' William Press said he finds Dyson to be both a ''deep'' and ''magnificently laudable person'' and also mysterious and inscrutable, a man with contrarian opinions that Press suspects may be motivated by ''a darker side he's determined the world isn't going to see.'' When I asked Sacks what he thought about all this, he said that ''a favorite word of Freeman's about doing science and being creative is the word 'subversive.' He feels it's rather important not only to be not orthodox, but to be subversive, and he's done that all his life.'' 
 Dyson says it's only principle that leads him to question global warming: ''According to the global-warming people, I say what I say because I'm paid by the oil industry. Of course I'm not, but that's part of their rhetoric. If you doubt it, you're a bad person, a tool of the oil or coal industry.'' Global warming, he added, ''has become a party line.'' 
 What may trouble Dyson most about climate change are the experts. Experts are, he thinks, too often crippled by the conventional wisdom they create, leading to the belief that ''they know it all.'' The men he most admires tend to be what he calls ''amateurs,'' inventive spirits of uncredentialed brilliance like Bernhard Schmidt, an eccentric one-armed alcoholic telescope-lens designer; Milton Humason, a janitor at Mount Wilson Observatory in California whose native scientific aptitude was such that he was promoted to staff astronomer; and especially Darwin, who, Dyson says, ''was really an amateur and beat the professionals at their own game.'' It's a point of pride with Dyson that in 1951 he became a member of the physics faculty at Cornell and then, two years later, moved on to the Institute for Advanced Study, where he became an influential man, a pragmatist providing solutions to the military and Congress, and also the 2000 winner of the $1 million Templeton Prize for broadening the understanding of science and religion, an award previously given to Mother Teresa and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn -- all without ever earning a Ph.D. Dyson may, in fact, be the ultimate outsider-insider, ''the world's most civil heretic,'' as the classical composer Paul Moravec, the artistic consultant at the institute, says of him.
 Climate-change specialists often speak of global warming as a matter of moral conscience. Dyson says he thinks they sound presumptuous. As he warned that day four years ago at Boston University, the history of science is filled with those ''who make confident predictions about the future and end up believing their predictions,'' and he cites examples of things people anticipated to the point of terrified certainty that never actually occurred, ranging from hellfire, to Hitler's atomic bomb, to the Y2K millennium bug. ''It's always possible Hansen could turn out to be right,'' he says of the climate scientist. ''If what he says were obviously wrong, he wouldn't have achieved what he has. But Hansen has turned his science into ideology. He's a very persuasive fellow and has the air of knowing everything. He has all the credentials. I have none. I don't have a Ph.D. He's published hundreds of papers on climate. I haven't. By the public standard he's qualified to talk and I'm not. But I do because I think I'm right. I think I have a broad view of the subject, which Hansen does not. I think it's true my career doesn't depend on it, whereas his does. I never claim to be an expert on climate. I think it's more a matter of judgement than knowledge.'' 
 Reached by telephone, Hansen sounds annoyed as he says, ''There are bigger fish to fry than Freeman Dyson,'' who ''doesn't know what he's talking about.'' In an e-mail message, he adds that his own concern about global warming is not based only on models, and that while he respects the ''open-mindedness'' of Dyson, ''if he is going to wander into something with major consequences for humanity and other life on the planet, then he should first do his homework -- which he obviously has not done on global warming.''
 When Dyson hears about this, he looks, if possible, like a person taking the longer view. He is a short, sinewy man with strawlike filaments of excitable gray hair that make him resemble an upside-down broom. Every day he dresses with the same frowzy Oxbridge formality in L. L. Bean khaki trousers (his daughter Mia is a minister in Maine), a tweed sport coat, a necktie (most often one made for him, he says, by another daughter, Emily, many years ago ''in the age of primary colors'') and wool sweater-vests. On cold days he wears a second vest, one right over the other, and the effect is like a window with two sets of curtains. His smile is the real window, a delighted beam that appears to float free from his face, strangely dynamic with its electric ears and quantum nose, and his laugh is so hearty it shakes him. The smile and laughter have the effect of softening Dyson's formality, transforming him into a sage and friendly elf, and also reminding those he talks with that he has spent a lifetime immersed in efforts to find what he considers humane solutions to dire problems, whose controversial gloss never seems to agitate him. His eyes are murky gray, and whatever he's thinking beyond what he says, the eyes never betray.
 A FORMATIVE MOMENT in Dyson's life that pushed him in an apostatical direction happened in 1932, when, at age 8, he was sent off to boarding school at Twyford. By then he was a prodigy ''already obsessed'' with mathematics. (His older sister Alice, a retired social worker still living in Winchester, remembers how her brother ''used to lie on the nursery floor working out how many atoms there were in the sun. He was perhaps 4.'') At Twyford -- like George Orwell, who was flogged, starved and humiliated by masters and bigger boys at St. Cyprian's -- Dyson says he felt brutalized by a whip-wielding headmaster who offered no science classes, favoring Latin, and by a clique of athletes who liked to rub sandpaper on the faces of the smaller children. ''In those days it was unthinkable that parents would come to see what was going on,'' Dyson says. ''My parents lived only three miles away. They never came to visit. It wasn't done.'' Dyson took comfort in climbing tall trees, reading ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,'' which gave him a first sense of America as a more ''exciting place where all sorts of weird things could happen,'' and Jules Verne's comic science-fiction descriptions of more ''crazy Americans'' bound for the moon. His primary consolation, however, was the science society he founded with a few friends. Dyson would later reflect that from then on he saw science as ''a territory of freedom and friendship in the midst of tyranny and hatred.''
 Four years later he entered Winchester College, well known for academic rigor, and he thrived. On his own in the school library, he read mathematical works in French and German and, at age 13, taught himself calculus from an Encyclopedia Britannica entry. ''I remember thinking, Is that it?'' he says. ''People had been telling me how hard it was.'' Another day in the library he discovered ''Daedalus, or Science and the Future,'' by the biologist J. B. S. Haldane, who said that ''the thing that has not been is the thing that shall be; that no beliefs, no values, no institutions are safe,'' an appealing outlook to Dyson, who had found his muse. ''Haldane was even more of a heretic than I am,'' he says. ''He really loved to make people angry.'' It wasn't all science. On trips into London he spent entire days in bookstores where William Blake ''got hold of me. What I really liked was he was a really rebellious spirit who always said the opposite of what everybody else believed.'' 
 That defiant sensibility hardened further when the second war with Germany began. Dyson says he can ''remember so vividly lying in bed at age 15, absolutely enjoying hearing the bombs go off with a wonderful crunching noise. I said, 'That's the sound of the British Empire crumbling.' I had a sense that the British Empire was evil. The fact that I might get hit didn't register at all. I think that's a natural state of mind for a 15-year-old. I somehow got over it.'' At Cambridge, Dyson attended all the advanced mathematics lectures and climbed roofs at night during blackouts. By the end of the school year in 1943, which Dyson celebrated by pushing his wheelchairbound classmate, Oscar Hahn, the 55 miles home to London in one 17-hour day, Dyson was fully formed as a person of strong, frequently rebellious beliefs, someone who would always go his own way. 
 During World War II, Dyson worked for the Royal Air Force at Bomber Command, calculating the most effective ways to deploy pilots, some of whom he knew would die. Dyson says he was ''sickened'' and ''depressed'' that many more planes were going down than needed to because military leadership relied on misguided institutional mythologies rather than statistical studies. Even more upsetting, Dyson writes in ''Weapons and Hope,'' he became an expert on ''how to murder most economically another hundred thousand people.'' This work, Dyson told the writer Kenneth Brower, created an ''emptiness of the soul.''
 Then came two blinding flashes of light. Dyson's reaction to Hiroshima and Nagasaki was complicated. Like many physicists, Dyson has always loved explosions, and, of course, uncovering the secrets of nature is the first motivation of science. When he was interviewed for the 1980 documentary ''The Day After Trinity,'' Dyson addressed the seduction: ''I felt it myself, the glitter of nuclear weapons. It is irresistible if you come to them as a scientist. To feel it's there in your hands. To release the energy that fuels the stars. To let it do your bidding. And to perform these miracles, to lift a million tons of rock into the sky, it is something that gives people an illusion of illimitable power, and it is in some ways responsible for all our troubles, I would say, this what you might call 'technical arrogance' that overcomes people when they see what they can do with their minds.'' 
 Eventually, Dyson would be sure nuclear weapons were the worst evil. But in 1945, drawn to these irreducible components of life, Dyson left mathematics and took up physics. Still, he did not want to be another dusty Englishman toiling alone in a dim Cambridge laboratory. Since childhood, some part of him had always known that the ''Americans held the future in their hands and that the smart thing for me to do would be to join them.'' That the United States was now the country of Einstein and Oppenheimer was reason enough to go, but Dyson's sister Alice says that ''he escaped to America so he could make his own life,'' removed from the shadow of his now famous musical father. ''I know how he felt,'' says Oliver Sacks, who came to New York not long after medical school. ''I was the fifth Dr. Sacks in my family. I felt it was time to get out and find a place of my own.'' 
 In 1947, Dyson enrolled as a doctoral candidate at Cornell, studying with Hans Bethe, who had the reputation of being the greatest problem-solver in physics. Alice Dyson says that once in Ithaca, her brother ''became so much more human,'' and Dyson does not disagree. ''I really felt it was quite amazing how accepted I was,'' he says. ''In 1963, I'd only been a U.S. citizen for about five years, and I was testifying to the Senate, representing the Federation of American Scientists in favor of the nuclear-test-ban treaty.'' 
 After sizing him up over a few meals, Bethe gave Dyson a problem and told him to come back in six months. ''You just sit down and do it,'' Dyson told me. ''It's probably the hardest work you'll do in your life. Without having done that, you've never understood what science is all about.'' This smaller problem was part of a much larger one inherited from Einstein, among others, involving the need for a theory to describe the behavior of atoms and electrons emitting and absorbing light. Put another way, it was the question of how to move physics forward, creating agreement among the disparate laws of atomic structure, radiation, solid-state physics, plasma physics, maser and laser technology, optical and microwave spectroscopy, electronics and chemistry. Many were working on achieving this broad rapport, including Julian Schwinger at Harvard University; a Japanese physicist named Shinichiro Tomonaga, whose calculations arrived in America from war-depleted Kyoto on cheap brown paper; and Feynman, also at Cornell, a man so brilliant he did complex calculations in his head. Initially, Bethe asked Dyson to make some difficult measurements involving electrons. But soon enough Dyson went further. 
 The breakthrough came on summer trips Dyson made in 1948, traveling around America by Greyhound bus and also, for four days, in a car with Feynman. Feynman was driving to Albuquerque, and Dyson joined him just for the pleasure of riding alongside ''a unique person who had such an amazing combination of gifts.'' The irrepressible Feynman and the ''quiet and dignified English fellow,'' as Feynman described Dyson, picked up gypsy hitchhikers; took shelter from an Oklahoma flood in the only available hotel they could find, a brothel, where Feynman pretended to sleep and heard Dyson relieve himself in their room sink rather than risk the common bathroom in the hall; spoke of Feynman's realization that he had enjoyed military work on the Manhattan Project too much and therefore could do it no more; and talked about Feynman's ideas in a way that made Dyson forever understand what the nature of true genius is. Dyson wanted to unify one big theory; Feynman was out to unify all of physics. Inspired by this and by a mesmerizing sermon on nonviolence that Dyson happened to hear a traveling divinity student deliver in Berkeley, Dyson sat aboard his final Greyhound of the summer, heading East. He had no pencil or paper. He was thinking very hard. On a bumpy stretch of highway, long after dark, somewhere out in the middle of Nebraska, Dyson says, ''Suddenly the physics problem became clear.'' What Feynman, Schwinger and Tomonaga were doing was stylistically different, but it was all ''fundamentally the same.'' 
 Dyson is always effacing when discussing his work -- he has variously called himself a tinkerer, a clean-up man and a bridge builder who merely supplied the cantilevers linking other men's ideas. Bethe thought more highly of him. ''He is the best I have ever had or observed,'' Bethe wrote in a letter to Oppenheimer, who invited Dyson to the institute for an initial fellowship. There, with Einstein indifferent to him and the chain-smoking Oppenheimer openly doubting Dyson's physics, Dyson wrote his renowned paper ''The Radiation Theories of Tomonaga, Schwinger and Feynman.'' Oppenheimer sent Dyson a note: ''Nolo contendere -- R.O.'' If you could do that in a year, who needed a Ph.D.? The institute was perfect for him. He could work all morning and, as he wrote to his parents, in the afternoons go for walks in the woods to see ''strange new birds, insects and plants.'' It was, Dyson says, the happiest sustained moment in his life. It was also the last great discovery he would make in physics. 
 Other physicists quietly express disappointment that Dyson didn't do more to advance the field, that he wasted his promise. ''He did some things in physics after the heroic work in 1949, but not as much as I would have expected for someone so off-the-scale smart,'' one physicist says. From others there are behind-the-study-door speculations that perhaps Dyson lacked the necessary ''killer instinct''; or that he was discouraged by Enrico Fermi, who told him that his further work on quantum electrodynamics was unpromising; or ''that he never felt he could approach Feynman's brilliance.'' Dyson shakes his head. ''I've always enjoyed what I was doing quite independently of whether it was important or not,'' he says. ''I think it's almost true without exception if you want to win a Nobel Prize, you should have a long attention span, get ahold of some deep and important problem and stay with it for 10 years. That wasn't my style.'' 
 DYSON HAD ALWAYS wanted ''a big family.'' In 1950, after knowing the brilliant mathematician Verena Huber for three weeks, Dyson proposed. They married, Esther and George were born, but the union didn't last. ''She was more interested in mathematics than in raising kids,'' he says. By 1958, Dyson had married Imme -- he has the brains, she has the legs, the Dysons like to joke -- and they settled ''in this snobbish little town,'' as he calls Princeton. They had four more daughters. All six Dysons describe eventful childhoods with people like Feynman coming by for meals. Their father, meanwhile, was always preaching the virtues of boredom: ''Being bored is the only time you are creative'' was his thinking. George recalls groups of physicists closing doors and saying, ''No children.'' Through the keyhole George would hear words that gave him thermonuclear nightmares. All of them remember Dyson coming home, arms filled with bouquets of new appliances to make Imme's life easier: an automatic ironing machine; a snowblower; one of the first microwave ovens in Princeton.
 Beginning in the late '50s, Dyson spent months in California, on the La Jolla campus of General Atomics, a peacetime Los Alamos, where scientists were seeking progressive uses for nuclear energy. After a challenge from Edward Teller to build a completely safe reactor, Dyson and Ted Taylor patented the Triga, a small isotope machine that is still used for medical diagnostics in hospitals. Then came the Orion rocket, designed so successions of atomic bombs would explode against the spaceship's massive pusher plate, propelling astronauts toward the moon and beyond. ''For me, Orion meant opening up the whole solar system to life,'' he says. ''It could have changed history.'' Dyson says he ''thought of Orion as the solution to a problem. With one trip we'd have got rid of 2,000 bombs.'' But instead, he lent his support to the nuclear-test-ban treaty with the U.S.S.R., which killed Orion. ''This was much more serious than Orion ever would be,'' he said later. Dyson's powers of concentration were so formidable in those years that George remembers sitting with his father and ''he'd just disappear.'' 
 One idea pulsing through his mind was a thought experiment that he published in the journal Science in 1959 that described massive energy-collecting shells that could encircle a star and capture solar energy. This was Dyson's initial response to his insight that earthbound reserves of fossil fuels were limited. The structures are known as Dyson Spheres to science-fiction authors like Larry Niven and by the writers of an episode of ''Star Trek'' -- the only engineers so far to succeed in building one. 
 This was an early indication of Dyson's growing interest in what one day would be called climate studies. In 1976, Dyson began making regular trips to the Institute for Energy Analysis in Oak Ridge, Tenn., where the director, Alvin Weinberg, was in the business of investigating alternative sources of power. Charles David Keeling's pioneering measurements at Mauna Loa, Hawaii, showed rapidly increasing carbon-dioxide levels in the atmosphere; and in Tennessee, Dyson joined a group of meteorologists and biologists trying to understand the effects of carbon on the Earth and air. He was now becoming a climate expert. Eventually Dyson published a paper titled ''Can We Control the Carbon Dioxide in the Atmosphere?'' His answer was yes, and he added that any emergency could be temporarily thwarted with a ''carbon bank'' of ''fast-growing trees.'' He calculated how many trees it would take to remove all carbon from the atmosphere. The number, he says, was a trillion, which was ''in principle quite feasible.'' Dyson says the paper is ''what I'd like people to judge me by. I still think everything it says is true.''
 Eventually he would embrace another idea: the notorious carbon-eating trees, which would be genetically engineered to absorb more carbon than normal trees. Of them, he admits: ''I suppose it sounds like science fiction. Genetic engineering is politically unpopular in the moment.'' 
 In the 1970s, Dyson participated in other climate studies conducted by Jason, a small government-financed group of the country's finest scientists, whose members gather each summer near San Diego to work on (often) classified (usually) scientific dilemmas of (frequently) military interest to the government. Dyson has, as he admits, a restless nature, and by the time many scientists were thinking about climate, Dyson was on to other problems. Often on his mind were proposals submitted by the government to Jason. ''Mainly we kill stupid projects,'' he says. 
 Some scientists refuse military work on the grounds that involvement in killing is sin. Dyson was opposed to the wars in Vietnam and Iraq, but not to generals. He had seen in England how a military more enlightened by quantitative analysis could have better protected its men and saved the lives of civilians. ''I always felt the worse the situation was, the more important it was to keep talking to the military,'' he says. Over the years he says he pushed the rejection of the idea of dropping atomic bombs on North Vietnam and solved problems in adaptive optics for telescopes. Lately he has been ''trying to help the intelligence people be aware of what the bad guys may be doing with biology.'' Dyson thinks of himself as ''fighting for peace,'' and Joel Lebowitz, a Rutgers physicist who has known Dyson for 50 years, says Dyson lives up to that: ''He works for Jason and he's out there demonstrating against the Iraq war.''
 At Jason, taking problems to Dyson is something of a parlor trick. A group of scientists will be sitting around the cafeteria, and one will idly wonder if there is an integer where, if you take its last digit and move it to the front, turning, say, 112 to 211, it's possible to exactly double the value. Dyson will immediately say, ''Oh, that's not difficult,'' allow two short beats to pass and then add, ''but of course the smallest such number is 18 digits long.'' When this happened one day at lunch, William Press remembers, ''the table fell silent; nobody had the slightest idea how Freeman could have known such a fact or, even more terrifying, could have derived it in his head in about two seconds.'' The meal then ended with men who tend to be described with words like ''brilliant,'' ''Nobel'' and ''MacArthur'' quietly retreating to their offices to work out what Dyson just knew.
 These days, most of what consumes Dyson is his writing. In a recent article, he addressed the issue of reductionist thinking obliquely, as a question of perspective. Birds, he wrote, ''fly high in the air and survey broad vistas.'' Frogs like him ''live in the mud below and see only the flowers that grow nearby.'' Whether the topic is government work, string theory or climate change, Dyson seems opposed to science making enormous gestures. The physicist Douglas Eardley, who works with Dyson at Jason, says: ''He's always against the big monolithic projects, the Battlestar Galacticas. He prefers spunky little Mars rovers.'' Dyson has been hostile to the Star Wars missile-defense system, the Space Station, the Hubble telescope and the superconducting super collider, which he says he opposed because ''it's just out of proportion.'' Steven Weinberg, the Nobel physics laureate who often disagrees with Dyson on these matters, says: ''Some things simply have to be done in a large way. They're very expensive. That's big science. Get over it.''
 Around the Institute for Advanced Study, that intellectual Arcadia where the blackboards have signs on them that say Do Not Erase, Dyson is quietly admired for candidly expressing his doubts about string theory's aspiration to represent all forces and matter in one coherent system. ''I think Freeman wishes the string theorists well,'' Avishai Margalit, the philosopher, says. ''I don't think he wishes them luck. He's interested in diversity, and that's his worldview. To me he is a towering figure although he is tiny -- almost a saintly model of how to get old. The main thing he retains is playfulness. Einstein had it. Playfulness and curiosity. He also stands for this unique trait, which is wisdom. Brightness here is common. He is wise. He integrated, not in a theory, but in his life, all his dreams of things.'' 
 IMME DYSON REPORTS that her husband ''recently stopped climbing trees.'' Dyson himself says he's resigned to never finishing ''Anna Karenina.'' Otherwise he still lives his days at mortality-ignoring cadence, aided by NoDoz, a habit he first acquired during his R.A.F. days. He travels widely, giving talks at churches and colleges, reminding people how dangerous nuclear weapons are. (''I think people got used to them and think if you leave them alone, they won't do you any harm,'' he says. ''I always am scared. I think everybody ought to be.'') He has visited both the Galapagos Islands and the campus of Google and attended ''Doctor Atomic,'' the John Adams opera about Oppenheimer, which disappointed him. More fulfilling was the board meeting of a foundation promoting solar energy in China. Another winter day found him answering questions from physics majors at a Christian college in Oklahoma. (''Scientists should understand the human anguish of religious people,'' he says.) 
 Lately Dyson has been lamenting that he and Imme ''don't see so much of each other. We're always rushing around.'' But one evening last month they sat down in a living room filled with Imme's running trophies and photographs of their children to watch ''An Inconvenient Truth'' again. There was a print of Einstein above the television. And then there was Al Gore below him, telling of the late Roger Revelle, a Harvard scientist who first alerted the undergraduate Gore to how severe the climate's problems would become. Gore warned of the melting snows of Kilimanjaro, the vanishing glaciers of Peru and ''off the charts'' carbon levels in the air. ''The so-called skeptics'' say this ''seems perfectly O.K.,'' Gore said, and Imme looked at her husband. She is even slighter than he is, a pretty wood sprite in running shoes. ''How far do you allow the oceans to rise before you say, This is no good?'' she asked Dyson.
 ''When I see clear evidence of harm,'' he said.
 ''Then it's too late,'' she replied. ''Shouldn't we not add to what nature's doing?''
 ''The costs of what Gore tells us to do would be extremely large,'' Dyson said. ''By restricting CO2 you make life more expensive and hurt the poor. I'm concerned about the Chinese.''
 ''They're the biggest polluters,'' Imme replied.
 ''They're also changing their standard of living the most, going from poor to middle class. To me that's very precious.'' 
 The film continued with Gore predicting violent hurricanes, typhoons and tornados. ''How in God's name could that happen here?'' Gore said, talking about Hurricane Katrina. ''Nature's been going crazy.''
 ''That is of course just nonsense,'' Dyson said calmly. ''With Katrina, all the damage was due to the fact that nobody had taken the trouble to build adequate dikes. To point to Katrina and make any clear connection to global warming is very misleading.''
 Now came Arctic scenes, with Gore telling of disappearing ice, drunken trees and drowning polar bears. ''Most of the time in history the Arctic has been free of ice,'' Dyson said. ''A year ago when we went to Greenland where warming is the strongest, the people loved it.''
 ''They were so proud,'' Imme agreed. ''They could grow their own cabbage.'' 
 The film ended. ''I think Gore does a brilliant job,'' Dyson said. ''For most people I'd think this would be quite effective. But I knew Roger Revelle. He was definitely a skeptic. He's not alive to defend himself.''
 ''All my friends say how smart and farsighted Al Gore is,'' she said.
 ''He certainly is a good preacher,'' Dyson replied. ''Forty years ago it was fashionable to worry about the coming ice age. Better to attack the real problems like the extinction of species and overfishing. There are so many practical measures we could take.''
 ''I'm still perfectly happy if you buy me a Prius!'' Imme said. 
 ''It's toys for the rich,'' her husband smiled, and then they were arguing about windmills. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE RICHARDS) (pg.MM33)
The Apprentice Scientist: ''An Esay at Natarril History,'' age 6
the last page of a three-page treatise on ''Astronimy,'' age 5
and a sketch of a passenger-bearing spaceship from the unfinished science-fiction story ''Sir Phillip Roberts's Erolunar Collision,'' age 9. (DRAWINGS BY FREEMAN DYSON. PHOTOGRAPHS FROM GEORGE DYSON.) (pg.MM34)
An Inconvenient Film: Freeman Dyson and his wife, Imme, differ on Al Gore's movie. She wants a Prius. He questions the consensus on climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE RICHARDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM36)
Big Bangs: Dyson, far right, helped design an American spacecraft that would be powered by exploding atomic bombs -- a secret Air Force project known as Orion. He says he ''thought of Orion as the solution to a problem. With one trip we'd have got rid of 2,000 bombs.'' (LEFT: DRAWING BY MICHAEL TRESHOW, COURTESY GEORGE DYSON. RIGHT: PHOTOGRAPH BY JAROMIR ASTL.) (pg.MM35)
 The Whimsical Gaze: Dyson still travels widely, giving talks at churches and colleges, reminding people how dangerous nuclear weapons are. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUGENE RICHARDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); HISTORY (78%); CHAT ROOMS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (68%); NEUROSCIENCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (84%)

PERSON: AL GORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1186 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Cost Works Against Alternative and Renewable Energy Sources in Time of Recession

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Windmills and solar panel arrays have become symbols of America's growing interest in alternative energy. Yet as Congress begins debating new rules to restrict carbon dioxide emissions and promote electricity produced from renewable sources, an underlying question is how much more Americans will be willing to pay to harness the wind and the sun.
 Curbing carbon dioxide emissions -- a central part of tackling climate change -- will almost certainly raise electricity prices, experts say. And increasing the nation's reliance on renewable energy will in itself raise costs. 
 Fifteen months into a recession, that prospect does not sit well in some quarters.
 ''Consumers right now are extremely price-sensitive,'' said Barry Moline, executive director of the Florida Municipal Electric Association, whose member utilities serve about three million people. 
 Federal efforts to rein in carbon dioxide emissions are starting to seem inevitable. The Environmental Protection Agency last week moved to regulate heat-trapping gases as harmful pollutants. And the Obama administration and Democratic leaders in Congress are hoping to push through a cap-and-trade bill that would force polluters to curb their emissions or buy permits from cleaner producers. Congress is also discussing whether to require that a certain percentage of the nation's electricity come from renewable sources. 
 The effect of any these measures will be to increase the cost of electricity. Regulation of carbon dioxide emissions will increase the cost of burning coal, a carbon-heavy energy source and currently the cheapest form of fossil fuel. Higher production costs will result in higher electricity rates. 
 A quota for renewable energy sources will also raise rates because utilities will pass on increased costs to consumers. 
 And wind and solar power are generally more expensive than the fossil fuels they are meant to supplant. If carbon dioxide penalties made coal power more expensive, as some environmentalists argue is inevitable, the relative cost of renewable energy might decrease. But consumers will still pay more.
 One big question is how much it currently costs companies to produce coal-fired energy, and the answers are often colored by ideology or self-interest. Companies that sell coal or rely on coal-fired electricity often pick a low number; environmentalists cite the indirect costs to society, like strip mining or spills of coal ash. And since the electricity industry became more competitive, the utilities, even municipal ones, have become more secretive about their costs.
 Some experts not aligned with either camp estimate that wind power is currently more than 50 percent more expensive than power generated by a traditional coal plant. Built into the calculation is the need for utilities that rely heavily on wind power to build backup plants fired by natural gas to meet electricity demand when winds are calm.
 Another obstacle to nailing the numbers is that prices for coal and natural gas go through market swings. If the price of natural gas gets high enough, wind could look cheap by comparison, but right now natural gas is down sharply -- a sign that the recession will not be kind to renewable energy. Organizations that profess to be neutral about what new technology gets built suggest that renewable energy probably has a steep hill to climb. 
 For example, the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit consortium financed by investor- and publicly-owned utilities, predicted in November that even for plants coming on line in 2015, wind energy would cost nearly one-third more than coal and about 14 percent more than natural gas. The cost of solar thermal electricity, made by using the sun's heat to boil water and spin a turbine, would be nearly three times that of coal and more than twice that of natural gas. (It would be almost double the cost of wind energy, too.) 
 The institute's study looked only at utility-scale power plants, not the solar photovoltaic cells used in far smaller rooftop installations. Power from photovoltaic cells is generally more expensive than solar thermal power.
 At Black & Veatch, a company based in Overland Park, Kan., that has been involved in the construction of coal, gas and wind plants, analysts recently compared the costs per kilowatt-hour of different energy sources for the big energy competitors. A kilowatt-hour is the unit of energy that the utilities use to bill homeowners, with the current retail cost averaging around 11 cents. 
 A modern coal plant of conventional design, without technology to capture carbon dioxide before it reaches the air, produces at about 7.8 cents a kilowatt-hour; a high-efficiency natural gas plant, 10.6 cents; and a new nuclear reactor, 10.8 cents. A wind plant in a favorable location would cost 9.9 cents per kilowatt hour. But if a utility relied on a great many wind machines, it would need to back them up with conventional generators in places where demand tends to peak on hot summer days with no breeze. That pushes the price up to just over 12 cents, making it more than 50 percent more expensive than a kilowatt-hour for coal.
 No one likes higher bills. But the pain might not be shared equally: despite modest rate breaks for low-income customers, poor people spend a higher portion of their income on electricity than the rich.
 ''There are great benefits to the use of alternative energy,'' said Jonathan Mir, co-head of the North American power utilities group at the investment bank Lazard. 
 But if Congress neglects the social issue, Mr. Mir said, a change in policy could fall hardest on those without a safety net.
 ''If it is deployed in an uneconomic way,'' he said, ''it is quite regressive in nature.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); SOLAR ENERGY (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); COAL PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); COAL MARKETS (71%); COAL MINING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SURFACE MINING (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1187 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Not Just a Bad Dream

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
THE incredible shrinking real estate market has arrived right here in Manhattan, and now that the first quarter is over, not even the most ebullient broker will be able to dispute it. Now everyone will have no choice but to adjust to a market where buyers aren't buying and sellers aren't selling, new developments have stalled and mortgages remain scarce.
 The evidence of this decline is likely to arrive later this week when a series of market reports are released, documenting in detail the decline in sales in every type of apartment in every neighborhood. 
 Last year, the Manhattan real estate market was an $18 billion business. So far this year, sales are off more than 60 percent, according to a preliminary review of first-quarter figures. That is steeper than the year-to-year decline in auto sales in February in the United States. 
 The drop-off in activity, especially among the most expensive apartments favored by the barons of Wall Street, led to steep drops in city real estate transfer taxes, forced brokerage firms to close offices, led to soaring inventory and left buyers and sellers uncertain about how to proceed. 
 For now, it seems, the market will be left to people who really need to move and who really need to buy. ''If you are going to be there long term, and you need a place to live, go for it -- if your time horizon is five or more years,'' said Dolly Lenz, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 Right now, she said, there is a standoff in the market, with buyers expecting huge discounts and sellers resisting. ''The buyers and sellers have gotten different memos of what the price should be and no one is budging,'' she said. 
 Michelle Kleier of Gumley Haft Kleier said her firm was still making sales, but of smaller apartments at lower prices than she was used to, typically to first-time home buyers and parents buying apartments for their children. 
 But even as the market seems to be heading in only one direction, there are exceptions.
 A few weeks ago, Laurie Tisch, the daughter of Preston Robert Tisch, the late chairman and co-owner of the Loews Corporation, paid $29 million for a two-bedroom apartment on the 13th floor of 834 Fifth Avenue, one of the great apartment buildings on the avenue. Her apartment is just below the triplex once owned by Laurance S. Rockefeller and bought by Rupert Murdoch for $44 million in 2005.
 But the sale to Ms. Tisch was a rarity in the current market. So far the number of co-op sales in the first quarter is off by nearly 60 percent from the same quarter in 2008, with the total value of sales off 70 percent. Only 10 co-ops costing more than $4 million sold in the first quarter, a decline of 80 percent compared with the same quarter last year.
 Condo sales also fell sharply, but because many of the sales that closed were in new buildings where expensive apartments had been in contract for many months, average sale prices actually rose. So far, all sales have totaled nearly $1.8 billion during the first quarter compared with about $5.1 billion in the same period last year. 
 In the 1980s, a glut of unsold Manhattan apartments in failed projects undermined the market for years. No one knows whether this will be the pattern this time around or whether the market will rebound more quickly if the economy, the stock market and the banks bounce back later this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 834 Fifth Avenue 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (81%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (81%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1188 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIELD REPORT; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 2554 words

HEADLINE: Bean Counterculture

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE MUHLKE

 BODY:
The chef-driven crazes for, say, heritage pork bellies, mule-ground grits and backyard purslane have elevated humble ingredients to cult status. But it took Thomas Keller to glamorize beans. At the Yountville, Calif., farmers' market several years ago, he was one of the few shoppers at the Rancho Gordo bean stand; today at Per Se in Manhattan, there's a box marked ''Rancho Gordo Beans,'' stocked with some of the 25 heirloom varieties now sold by the Napa company.
 ''Ingredients are the new chefs on some level,'' Steve Sando, the founder of Rancho Gordo, summarized with a naughty chuckle as he bounced around Napa in his messy pickup truck recently. He has reason to be happy: thanks to him, long-lost legumes with names like Good Mother Stallard, Eye of the Goat and Yellow Indian Woman appear on menus at the French Laundry, Manresa, Ubuntu Restaurant and Blue Hill at Stone Barns, and are selling out through his Web site and his farmers'-market stand to the tune of 250,000 pounds a year. ''When people say, 'I hate beans,' I think, Well, you've only had kidneys at the salad bar,'' he said. ''I'd hate beans, too, if that's my point of reference.'' 
 I didn't think beyond the salad bar, either, until I lugged home a pound of his Christmas Lima beans from San Francisco. The speckled beans were pretty and had character too: a meaty texture and nutty flavor. Embarrassingly easy to make, they sparked more interest among my guests than the carefully roasted grass-fed leg of lamb. Who knew beans could be so . . . exotic?
 It was a search for good ingredients that led Sando, a former Esprit wholesaler and Web designer, to start Rancho Gordo. A frustrated home cook unable to find a decent tomato, he began harvesting his own. His tomatoes, grown from heirloom Mexican seeds, did so well that he set up a table at the farmers' market in nearby Yountville. He quickly realized he'd need something else to sell during the rest of the season.
 ''I've been in love with beans from the word 'go,' '' said the 48-year-old California native, a gregarious, fast-talking man with an endearingly campy sense of humor. His fascination with New World culture led him to seek out the seeds of forgotten plants of the Americas; but it was his revisionist desire to show Americans the true roots of their food -- a kind of culinary patriotism -- that drove him to reclaim beans we've come to see as gourmet imports. Italian staples like borlotti? The French flageolet? New World, he said with zeal. Take back the Red Nightfall!
 The beans that Sando started growing were beautiful; cooked, they could be creamy, meaty, chestnutlike or herbaceous-tasting, textures and flavors he'd never experienced. Of his first crop, the purple Rio Zape, he recalled: ''There were hints of chocolate and coffee. It was like, wow, this is wild!'' 
 At the Yountville market, shoppers were lured by Sando's boldly patterned beans, only to recoil when they realized they weren't candied nuts, noted Sando. The French Laundry chef de cuisine Eric Ziebold (now at CityZen in Washington) brought Thomas Keller, who flipped for the Vallarta, which Sando jokingly described as ''a stupid little yellow bean on the verge of extinction.'' Soon everyone wanted ''the Keller Bean.'' 
 Today the Vallarta is thriving. ''And this is without Slow Food telling me what to do,'' said Sando, who had a public kerfuffle with the Slow Food founder Carlo Petrini two years ago. Sando pointedly said he favored growing disappearing foods over getting together to talk about them at fund-raisers.
 Even when he moved to the foodie-friendly Ferry Plaza Farmers Market in San Francisco, beans were a tough sell to anyone other than chefs. Tourists preferred his tortilla chips or heirloom popcorn, saying that beans took too long to cook or caused gas (''gift with purchase,'' Sando calls it). But with Sando as their ''bean friend,'' even noncooks have learned the nuanced pleasures of a simple pot of beans. His method is dead easy: soak the beans for four to six hours, saute onion and garlic in a saucepan until soft, pour in the beans and their soaking liquid, bring to a hard boil for five minutes, then cook at a bare bubble for one to two hours. Because Rancho Gordo beans are sold ''fresh'' -- less than a year old -- they cook faster and have a more complex flavor. Once people taste them, ''I've kind of got 'em,'' Sando said.
 According to Ken Albala, the author of ''Beans, a History,'' legumes have long been associated with poverty, ''a source of protein when you can't afford meat.'' Sando's ''absolutely stunning'' beans, says Albala, are getting them out of the ghetto. Five dollars for a one-pound bag seems steep, but Sando pointed out with a recession-weary laugh that it translates to 50 cents a serving, adding that beans cost much less to produce than a pound of beef, both economically and ecologically. Sales have doubled each year, tripling following the publication of his recent book, ''Heirloom Beans.''
 Last fall's harvest is already dwindling. To meet demand, Sando has started looking to Mexico. American commercial farmers are reluctant to cultivate heirloom beans because of their lower yield. ''I'm like, 'We're charging more per pound; you can charge me more per pound,' '' he said of their conversations. ''But they have this macho attitude. Every inch has to be loaded, or they feel they're wasting their time.'' Mexican farmers aren't proving easier. Last year, Nafta's protections against beans and corn ended, resulting in a flood of cheap beans from Michigan into Mexico. Sando would like to help Mexican farmers grow indigenous varieties, but, he said: ''They see me as part of the problem. I'm saying: 'You don't even have to take them to market. I'll prepay!' And they're like, no thanks.''
 Sando is working with a couple in Hidalgo to develop relationships with farmers. After he moves into a larger warehouse and storefront in Napa this month, he'd like to grow criollo (heirloom) corn, which is on the verge of extinction in Mexico, and make tortillas in back. ''We'll have to charge a little more, but they taste better,'' Sando explained. When it comes to heirloom varieties, he said with a raised brow, ''If they didn't taste good, this would just be an interesting story.''
 Recipe: Spring Lamb and Flageolets With Fay's Relish
 For the lamb:
 2tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus more as needed
 2pounds bone-in lamb-shoulder steaks
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 2small carrots, peeled and chopped
 1celery rib, chopped
 1/2medium yellow onion, chopped
 3cloves garlic, minced
 1pound flageolet beans (cellini or runner cannellini beans may be substituted; see note), soaked 4 to 6 hours
 For the relish:
 1large bunch cilantro, finely chopped
 1shallot, finely chopped
 2cloves garlic, minced
 Grated zest of 1 lemon
 Juice of half a lemon
 1tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper.
 1.Prepare the lamb: In a large Dutch oven or heavy pot, warm the olive oil over medium-high heat. Season the lamb generously with salt and pepper. Working in batches, sear the meat until browned, about 4 minutes per side. Transfer to a plate.
 2.Reduce the heat to medium. Stir in the carrots, celery, onion and garlic, scraping up the browned bits from the bottom of the pan, and cook until the onions are translucent, about 3 minutes. Add more oil if the vegetables stick. Pour the beans and their soaking water into the pot. If needed, add more cold water to cover the beans by 1 inch. Return the lamb with its juices to the pot. Bring to a boil, skimming off any impurities that rise to the top, and boil for 5 minutes. Reduce the heat to low, cover the pot and simmer slowly until the beans and lamb are tender, 1 to 1 1/2 hours.
 3.Make the relish: In a small bowl, stir together all of the relish ingredients. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
 4.Remove the lamb from the pot and cut into bite-size pieces, trimming off excess fat. Discard the bones. If you prefer a thicker stew, transfer 1 cup of the beans and broth to a blender or food processor, puree until smooth and return to the pot. Stir and season to taste. (To gauge the saltiness, taste the broth rather than the beans.) Simmer for 10 minutes more and adjust the seasoning as needed. Serve in warmed bowls and garnish with the relish. Serves 6. Adapted from ''Heirloom Beans,'' by Steve Sando and Vanessa Barrington.
 Note: Rancho Gordo beans are available at ranchogordo.com and Marlow & Daughters in Brooklyn. 
 Recipe: Spring Lamb and Flageolets With Fay's Relish
 For the beans:
 3 cups yellow eye or yellow Indian woman beans, soaked 4 to 6 hours (see note)
 1 carrot, peeled
 2 ribs celery, halved
 1 onion, quartered
 1 head garlic, halved across the equator
 Stems from 1 bunch Italian parsley, tied in a cheesecloth sachet
 2 tablespoons kosher salt
 1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
 For the soup:
 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling
 3 large carrots, peeled and diced
 5 ribs celery, diced
 2 leeks, white and light green parts only, diced
 1 head garlic, cloves peeled and finely grated
 1 1/2 teaspoons red chili flakes, plus more to taste
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh rosemary
 1 cup canned whole San Marzano tomatoes, drained and chopped
 1/2 cup chopped Italian parsley
 Rustic bread, sliced
 1 clove garlic, halved.
 1. Prepare the beans: Drain the beans and place them in a large pot. Add 3 quarts cold water, the carrot, celery, onion, garlic and parsley stem sachet. Bring to a boil, skimming off any foam that rises to the top. Reduce the heat to a gentle simmer and cook until the beans are soft and creamy, but not falling apart. (Start checking after 25 minutes; the fresher the beans, the shorter the cooking time.) Add the salt, pepper and olive oil. Discard the sachet and vegetables. Let the beans cool in the liquid.
 2. Prepare the soup: Pour the olive oil into a large pot set over medium heat. Add the carrots, celery, leeks, garlic, chili and rosemary. Cook until the rawness of the vegetables is just gone, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook until slightly caramelized, about 3 minutes more. Add the beans and their cooking liquid, bring to a boil and simmer until the vegetables are tender, 5 to 10 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Just before serving, add the parsley. Toast the bread slices. While still hot, rub them with the garlic halves, then tear into large pieces. Ladle the soup into bowls and top each with a few toasts, then drizzle with olive oil. Serves 6 to 8. Adapted from Ubuntu Restaurant in Napa, California.
 NOTE: Rancho Gordo beans are available at ranchogordo.com and Marlow & Daughters in Brooklyn.
 Recipe: Spring Lamb and Flageolets With Fay's Relish
 For the lamb:
 2tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus more as needed
 2pounds bone-in lamb-shoulder steaks
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 2small carrots, peeled and chopped
 1celery rib, chopped
 1/2medium yellow onion, chopped
 3cloves garlic, minced
 1pound flageolet beans (cellini or runner cannellini beans may be substituted; see note), soaked 4 to 6 hours
 For the relish:
 1large bunch cilantro, finely chopped
 1shallot, finely chopped
 2cloves garlic, minced
 Grated zest of 1 lemon
 Juice of half a lemon
 1tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper.
 1.Prepare the lamb: In a large Dutch oven or heavy pot, warm the olive oil over medium-high heat. Season the lamb generously with salt and pepper. Working in batches, sear the meat until browned, about 4 minutes per side. Transfer to a plate.
 2.Reduce the heat to medium. Stir in the carrots, celery, onion and garlic, scraping up the browned bits from the bottom of the pan, and cook until the onions are translucent, about 3 minutes. Add more oil if the vegetables stick. Pour the beans and their soaking water into the pot. If needed, add more cold water to cover the beans by 1 inch. Return the lamb with its juices to the pot. Bring to a boil, skimming off any impurities that rise to the top, and boil for 5 minutes. Reduce the heat to low, cover the pot and simmer slowly until the beans and lamb are tender, 1 to 1 1/2 hours.
 3.Make the relish: In a small bowl, stir together all of the relish ingredients. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
 4.Remove the lamb from the pot and cut into bite-size pieces, trimming off excess fat. Discard the bones. If you prefer a thicker stew, transfer 1 cup of the beans and broth to a blender or food processor, puree until smooth and return to the pot. Stir and season to taste. (To gauge the saltiness, taste the broth rather than the beans.) Simmer for 10 minutes more and adjust the seasoning as needed. Serve in warmed bowls and garnish with the relish. Serves 6. Adapted from ''Heirloom Beans,'' by Steve Sando and Vanessa Barrington.
 Note: Rancho Gordo beans are available at ranchogordo.com and Marlow & Daughters in Brooklyn. 
 Recipe: Spring Lamb and Flageolets With Fay's Relish
 For the beans:
 3 cups yellow eye or yellow Indian woman beans, soaked 4 to 6 hours (see note)
 1 carrot, peeled
 2 ribs celery, halved
 1 onion, quartered
 1 head garlic, halved across the equator
 Stems from 1 bunch Italian parsley, tied in a cheesecloth sachet
 2 tablespoons kosher salt
 1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
 For the soup:
 1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more for drizzling
 3 large carrots, peeled and diced
 5 ribs celery, diced
 2 leeks, white and light green parts only, diced
 1 head garlic, cloves peeled and finely grated
 1 1/2 teaspoons red chili flakes, plus more to taste
 2 tablespoons chopped fresh rosemary
 1 cup canned whole San Marzano tomatoes, drained and chopped
 1/2 cup chopped Italian parsley
 Rustic bread, sliced
 1 clove garlic, halved.
 1. Prepare the beans: Drain the beans and place them in a large pot. Add 3 quarts cold water, the carrot, celery, onion, garlic and parsley stem sachet. Bring to a boil, skimming off any foam that rises to the top. Reduce the heat to a gentle simmer and cook until the beans are soft and creamy, but not falling apart. (Start checking after 25 minutes; the fresher the beans, the shorter the cooking time.) Add the salt, pepper and olive oil. Discard the sachet and vegetables. Let the beans cool in the liquid.
 2. Prepare the soup: Pour the olive oil into a large pot set over medium heat. Add the carrots, celery, leeks, garlic, chili and rosemary. Cook until the rawness of the vegetables is just gone, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook until slightly caramelized, about 3 minutes more. Add the beans and their cooking liquid, bring to a boil and simmer until the vegetables are tender, 5 to 10 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Just before serving, add the parsley. Toast the bread slices. While still hot, rub them with the garlic halves, then tear into large pieces. Ladle the soup into bowls and top each with a few toasts, then drizzle with olive oil. Serves 6 to 8. Adapted from Ubuntu Restaurant in Napa, California.
 NOTE: Rancho Gordo beans are available at ranchogordo.com and Marlow & Daughters in Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pot Luck: Sando at home with his son, Nico (right), and Eli Welling-Sanchez. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LA SPINA) (pg.MM55)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES. FOOD STYLIST: JILL SANTOPIETRO.) (pg.MM56) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); PORK (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); GARDENING (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1189 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2093 words

HEADLINE: A Game of Inches

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
THIRTY feet. That is the distance between the entrance of Stan's Sports Bar at 158th Street and River Avenue and the faded black sign affixed to the side of Yankee Stadium that says ''Bleacher Entrance.'' It is a third of the length between first and second base, easy strolling distance for the droves of Yankee fans who crowded in religiously each baseball season. 
 And for 30 years, this archetypal American sports bar, with wooden baseball bats as its door handles and sketches of Mickey Mantle and Lou Gehrig on its walls, has been a prime piece of Bronx real estate. 
 Until the Yankees moved across the street, and then it wasn't. 
 The old Yankee Stadium sits on the south side of East 161st Street and extends south to the corner of 157th. The new stadium sits on the north side of 161st Street and runs north almost to 164th. 
 Many dismiss the move as insignificant to local businesses, noting that technically, the new stadium is just across the street from the old one. But for Stan's, it's now a long block to the gates of the new stadium.
 The move alone had the potential to diminish the number of fans the bar packs in before, during and after every game. And then came the upscale dining and drinking options within the new stadium, a steep increase in ticket prices and a recession that may leave regular visits to the ballpark a luxury ever fewer people can afford.
 Ever since last September, when the Yankees played their final game in the old stadium, the combination of these factors has left a question in the minds of Louis Dene, the bar's 43-year-old owner, and his two managers, Joe Mondi and Michael Rendino. After the gates to the new stadium open on Friday night for an exhibition game against the Chicago Cubs, they wonder, what will all these changes mean for them?
 ''It's really a big mystery,'' said Mr. Dene, who bought the bar from his father, Stan Martucci, 11 years ago. ''You can ask 10 people, and eight will tell you that the tradition and uniqueness of Stan's will live on. And the other two will tell you you've got all this corporate competition and people will have to come to Stan's with intent instead of stumbling upon it.''
 Mr. Dene estimates that the move will cost him 30 to 40 percent of his business. If there's one thing he and his staff have learned over the years, it's that theirs is a business whose fate has always been intertwined with that of a baseball team.
 The tradition itself began in 1979. Mr. Martucci and his wife, Barbara, were raising four sons in Willowbrook, Staten Island, and he was running Stan's Sports World, a memorabilia shop on River Avenue that is still in the family.
 ''My dad's love was for the souvenir end of the business,'' Mr. Dene said of Mr. Martucci, who died last March. ''He wasn't a bar guy; he didn't drink.'' 
 But buying the building next to the souvenir shop, which was already a bar, seemed like a smart move.
 Mr. Dene, it turned out, took a liking to the bar and restaurant business. At 25, he became its manager. Around the same time, he was coaching football for Susan E. Wagner High School in Staten Island, and he recruited his players to help as bar backs. 
 Mr. Dene now lives in Santa Barbara, Calif. Though he comes to town for every Yankee home stand, he leaves much of the bar's operation to Mr. Mondi and Mr. Rendino. 
 Mr. Mondi was one of those high school football players, an inside linebacker who was friends with the Martucci boys. Today, he lives in West Brighton, Staten Island, splitting his time between helping to run Stan's and working as a firefighter in Hunts Point in the Bronx. Mr. Rendino, who lives in Throgs Neck in the Bronx, worked as a firefighter in Morrisania until he developed lung problems after 9/11 and retired on disability.
 Four weeks before game day, sawdust still speckled the ceramic tile floor of the empty bar. Snow lay on the ground, and there was no heat. Seated side by side in one of the blue wooden booths, Mr. Mondi and Mr. Rendino talked about Stan's back in the day.
 ''You have to die to lose your shift here,'' said Mr. Mondi, who at 34 has already put in 20 years at the bar. He recalled meeting at Mr. Martucci's house on game days as a teenager. From there, everyone packed into a 15-person van and headed for the Bronx. ''All the kids from the neighborhood worked here,'' he said. 
 His partner, Mr. Rendino, a burly 34-year-old who was dressed this day in gray slacks and a blue button-down shirt, is the ''face of the business,'' as he puts it, the one who attends community board meetings.
 Mr. Rendino said he started working the door at Stan's in 1998. Mr. Mondi insisted that it was 1997. The two men batted this point back and forth before concluding that it might have been 1998 after all. 
 What they do agree on is that Stan's started out as a tough-guy bar, a rough-and-tumble joint. 
 ''I remember we played the Red Sox in '91,'' Mr. Mondi said, ''and right in that corner, some guy came in wearing a Red Sox jersey, and they ripped it off his body, they lit it on fire, and they urinated on it. Right here in the bar.'' 
 The South Bronx in those days was a crime-ridden place, and fans rarely lingered after games. 
 ''When I first got here, it was like a ghost town,'' Mr. Mondi said. ''People would come to see a Yankee game, and if the game started at 7, they would try to get here for 7 and they would leave the minute the game was over.''
 That began changing in 1996. More police officers were assigned to the area, the Yankees were getting hot, and for the first time in 18 years, the team won the World Series -- and then three more World Series in the next four years. With the team's reinvention came the reinvention of the bar. 
 ''You know what it was?'' Mr. Rendino said. ''It was Jeter, Knoblauch, O'Neill and Tino Martinez. It was a popular thing for girls in Manhattan living on the Upper East Side to get a season ticket package with their friends and come to 15 or 20 games.'' 
 As the Yankees became trendy, so did Stan's, and soon, fans were filling the booths before, during and after games. 
 Stan's is open for every home game, which comes to an average of 90 very busy days a year, give or take a few special events, like the pope's visit last April. That day, the flat-screen televisions, usually reserved for baseball, broadcast the pope celebrating Mass at the stadium.
 ''People were praying on our floors,'' Mr. Rendino recalled. Alcohol sales were lower than usual, but he and his partner thought it best not to kick out a bunch of worshipers.
 Today, the version of Stan's with which most people are familiar is a place where the official capacity is 270 but it feels like 370. Stan's has all the characteristics of a classic sports bar: loud music, sticky floors, drunken fans. The decor is Yankee blue, accented with neon signs and white ice bins lined up for the bottled beers. On nice days, when the glass panes in the windows are removed, it's hard to tell where Stan's ends and the stadium begins. 
 But will those same fans turn south instead of north when they exit the subway? Will they walk that extra block? 
 Sitting in a booth near the back of the bar, Mr. Rendino attempted a diagram using two cellphones that sat on the table.
 ''The train station is here,'' he said. ''The old stadium's here, the new stadium's here, the bar's here. It used to be, they get off the train, they walk by. Now they get off, and they go in the exact opposite direction. That's the problem. The one block is a problem.'' 
 Three weeks and counting until the first game in the new stadium.
 The radio inside Stan's was turned up, boxes ofBrillo pads were scattered around the kitchen, and everything smelled like bleach. Staff members had gathered for a thorough spring cleaning, even though 10 minutes into the first game of the new season, they say, the place usually looks the way it did during the final 10 minutes of the last game of the last season.
 As they worked, they discussed the changes coming this year. No one has ever come to Stan's for the food, but the managers may need to attract more people now, so they're adding more health-conscious items (the Philadelphia cheese steak sandwich will be offered with chicken). Advertising is another option being considered for the first time in the bar's history. 
 Teddy Tonge, who stands 6 feet 5, weighs 290 pounds and works as a bouncer, insisted that there was no cause for concern. 
 ''This is established,'' he said.
 He is already looking forward to keeping the fans in check. ''Three chances and out,'' Mr. Tonge said, pointing a long arm northwest toward Highbridge, where he lives. 
 Others see the extra block as more significant, among them Tony DelCarmine, a 38-year-old father of three who has been coming to Stan's for years. Mr. DelCarmine lives in Stamford, Conn., but one day not long ago, he came to the Bronx to check out the new stadium, then popped into the bar to see if there was anything he could do to help spread the word that the walk would be worth it.
 ''It's inevitable to wonder what's going to happen,'' Mr. DelCarmine said. Fans, he noted, have a certain mentality. ''Clearly,'' he said, ''the inclination is for them to go to the first drinking hole they can find.''
 This year, that first drinking hole could be the Dugout, which opened five years ago on River Avenue just north of 161st Street and may have just become the most coveted location on the block. Ten days before the first game at the new stadium, that bar's owner, Tyrone Robinson, 31, was preparing for what he expects will be his best season. 
 ''Whatever Stan had on that side last year, I'll be getting that,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''And I guess he'll get what I got.'' 
 Because of the new stadium, Mr. Robinson has expanded his 2,400-square-foot space by 4,000 square feet and is working on a roof deck. He is also ordering 180 cases of beer for the forthcoming exhibition games instead of the 90 he ordered last season. He's hoping to see business double. 
 In virtually every respect, the Dugout is the antithesis of Stan's. The only natural light is provided by the double glass doors at the entrance, making the space extremely dark. Deep red walls and a disco ball hanging from the ceiling give the place the feel of a lounge. 
 ''There's a term I'm looking for,'' Mr. Robinson said, searching for how to describe the atmosphere. ''Midtown comes to the Bronx -- that's it.'' 
 And he expects that the higher ticket prices for games will change the nature of his clientele. 
 ''It's a whole new caliber of people I'm looking forward to meeting,'' he said. ''It costs more to get into the game, so we're going to meet people that are willing to spend a little more.''
 That same afternoon, Lou Lomonaco, 42, who lives on City Island in the Bronx and works as a high school guidance counselor, took a break from jury duty at the courthouse up the hill to peer inside the new stadium, where attractions will include a high-end steakhouse and a Hard Rock Cafe.
 Mr. Lomonaco, who has been attending games since 1976, said he would do so this year only if someone invited him.
 ''My understanding is it's outrageous,'' he said. ''I guess they have to support what they're doing here, but it's unfair to the average person like myself.'' 
 The managers at Stan's say that the average person is exactly their customer, and they fear that the Yankees might have priced that person right out of the Bronx. Still, they're confident they have the loyalty of their regulars, people like Rolling Rock Lou. 
 Lou, whose real name is David Bender, is 64 and lives in Somerset, N.J. Decades ago, Mr. Bender's friends decided that he looked more like a Lou than a David. He drinks only Rolling Rock, and so the staff at Stan's gave him a name to distinguish him from the bar's owner, Lou Dene. Mr. Bender, who is retired from the advertising business, has bought a 20-game package every year since 2000.
 Until now. 
 ''The prices went up; the seats were going to be worse,'' he said. ''So I have not accepted the Yankees' offer of continuing that plan.'' Mr. Bender's 20-game package came to $60 per ticket last season. This year, he said, the Yankees offered him $85 tickets in home-run territory instead of inside the foul poles. 
 Instead, he made a deal to buy tickets to 10 games from his accountant, who has a season package. Mr. Bender said he would continue to go to Stan's, and he suspected that others would as well. ''For a lot of people,'' he said, ''it still really is a tradition.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A quiet preseason day at Stan's Sports Bar, long a central watering hole for Yankee fans. With the stadium relocated, its owners wonder if the quiet will persist past opening day.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.CY1)
Stan's is a bit farther from the new stadium than it was from the old, but will the distance deter fans?(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Dugout bar, just across from the new stadium, has doubled its beer order.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); BASEBALL (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); TICKET SALES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1190 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Tell Us the Future. Then Again, Don't.

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I AM bemused by the contretemps between Jon Stewart, of ''The Daily Show'' on Comedy Central, and my longtime friend Jim Cramer of CNBC. 
 As you may know, Mr. Cramer appeared earlier this month on ''The Daily Show,'' where Mr. Stewart yelled and cursed at him, saying he did not let Americans know just how serious the problems were on Wall Street. Previously on his program, Mr. Stewart berated Mr. Cramer's stock-picking; the criticism was especially sharp about his earlier optimistic talk about Bear Stearns.
 During the colloquy, Mr. Stewart lambasted Mr. Cramer as failing to anticipate events and inform his audience about those events. 
 I am bemused because I have long noticed that almost all economic pundits and soothsayers -- whether on television, in newspapers, or at brokerage firms and conferences, are asked to tell the future. And most of them agree to try to do so, and the really successful ones actually say they can do it -- and they say it with extreme conviction. Some of them are stunningly well paid for their efforts, even though they are wrong decade after decade. And I would be remiss if I did not add that I have succumbed to this temptation to speak as if I could tell what the future holds.
 But the fact is that we as humans cannot tell the future. It does not matter whether you are Mr. Cramer or if you are Warren Buffett, an off-the-charts genius on a scale rarely seen. It does not matter if you are Milton Friedman or Paul Samuelson or James Tobin, all Nobel laureates. Human beings cannot tell the future, or at least cannot tell it in any consistent way. 
 Humans can't consistently pick the right stocks or call markets, foretell political or geopolitical events or successfully predict changes in interest rates or commodity prices.
 Life is far too complex and baffling for the minds of mortals to understand it as it happens, let alone to predict it accurately. (I am mindful of how Professor Friedman, a true supernova of brilliance, said of economic forecasting, ''If you're going to predict, predict often.'') Some humans shine like dazzling stars when their predictions turn out to be true, but those same humans can't ever be counted on to replicate the feats regularly.
 Yet, we cry out for someone to tell us the future, like children who want to hear the end of the story. When Mr. Cramer tries to satisfy that need, he is doing no more than answering a deep human wish. But he -- and everyone else in a similar situation -- should make it clear that these are no more than opinions and guesses, which could easily be wrong and often are.
 This is not just boilerplate. This is life. The way it is.
 I was reminded of that as I wrote this in my modest apartment in Washington. I took a stroll over to the Barnes & Noble on M Street NW. There was a large table of books about Barack Obama. There were two medium-size tables of books about how to thrive in a depressed economy and another display of books about the collapse of Wall Street (none by me). 
 Two years ago, as I recall, the books were about getting rich quick, about the glamour and glory of Wall Street and about making your fortune by flipping houses. 
 Just two years ago, how many people would have confidently predicted that we would elect our first African-American president in 2008? Who would have imagined that Citigroup would trade for a time under $1 or that General Electric would trade for a time under $6 or that Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers would virtually vanish, or that a graduating class of law students would be unable to get jobs or that high-end M.B.A.'s would be unemployable?
 And who would have guessed that we would have a fall of more than 50 percent in the broad stock indexes or that oil would triple in price and then fall by more than $100 a barrel? Some people might have seen parts of this pattern, but all of it? Again, life is far too complex to be predicted with any consistency.
 I DON'T blame Mr. Cramer for trying to act as if he knows the future. That's his gig. But the most that economic seers can do is apply broad, generally acceptable principles to current situations and try to go from there. When I stray far from that, I hope that thoughtful readers will call me to account. 
 Life is deeply, terrifyingly uncertain. I applaud a comedy guy from Comedy Central for calling us all to account. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (92%); JIM CRAMER (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1191 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Research Universities

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''State Colleges Also Face Cuts in Ambitions'' (front page, March 17): 
 Arizona State University may indeed face unprecedented fiscal challenges, but I disagree that a decrease in legislative appropriations raises ''questions about how many public research universities the nation needs.'' 
 Research-grade universities are but one of a number of institutional types in American higher education. They educate students in a milieu that advances discovery and innovation while contributing to the development of a highly skilled work force and the diversification of the economy. 
 The larger point is that while other countries are investing strategically to educate their citizens for the new global knowledge economy, America's educational infrastructure remains dangerously underbuilt and undifferentiated. 
 While it is generally taken for granted that excellence and access are mutually exclusive, the New American University model we are advancing is focused squarely on Arizona students and seeks to prove that it is possible to combine the highest levels of academic excellence, inclusiveness to a broad demographic and maximum societal impact.
 Michael M. Crow President, Arizona State University Tempe, Ariz., March 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); LABOR FORCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1192 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Scholar and Witness

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
When he was a boy in segregated Oklahoma, where he was born in 1915, John Hope Franklin used to indulge in a subversive bit of wordplay like a small act of public and private theater.
 ''My mother and I used to have a game we'd play on our public,'' Dr. Franklin said not long ago, his voice full of artful pauses, words pulled out like taffy. ''She would say if anyone asks you what you want to be when you grow up, tell them you want to be the first Negro president of the United States. And just the words were so far-fetched, so incredible that we used to really have fun, just saying it.''
 Even in a country where the far-fetched, for better and for worse, so often becomes reality, few historians achieved the stature, both as scholars and as moral figures -- and as combinations of the two -- that Dr. Franklin did. When he died last week, at the age of 94, an American epoch seemed to vanish with him. 
 Dr. Franklin was first and foremost a major historian, whose landmark book, ''From Slavery to Freedom: A History of African-Americans,'' first published in 1947, was a comprehensive survey that sold more than three million copies. The book also permanently altered the ways in which the American narrative was studied. 
 ''What distinguishes his history or historiography is that he, like few other historians, wrote a book that transformed the way we understand a major social phenomenon,'' said David Levering Lewis, the New York University historian, who like Dr. Franklin studied under Theodore Currier at Fisk University in Nashville. 
 ''When you think of 'From Slavery to Freedom,' there's before and there's after, there's the world before and then we have a basic paradigm shift,'' he said. ''Before him you had a field of study that had been feeble and marginalized, full of a pretty brutal discounting of the impact of people of color. And he moved it into the main American narrative. It empowered a whole new field of study.''
 Dr. Lewis and others argue that Dr. Franklin's work helped empower not just African-American studies, but the whole range of alternative stories -- of women, gays, Hispanics, Asians and others -- now so much a part of mainstream academia.
 Dr. Franklin accomplished this not through advocacy but rather through the traditional means of scholarly inquiry. In his discussion, for instance, of the intersection of race and imperialism at the turn of the 20th century, Dr. Franklin observed: ''The United States, unlike other imperial powers, had a color problem at home and therefore had to pursue a policy with regard to race that would not upset the racial equilibrium within the United States. In Puerto Rico, for example, approximately one-third of the population was distinctly of African descent, and many so-called white Puerto Ricans had sufficient black blood in their veins to qualify as African-Americans in the United States.'' 
 The detailed command of the subject is impressive. But the revelation was in the literary and intellectual finesse. It was one thing for a white historian to invoke ''racial equilibrium,'' but when a black historian did it the term assumed a new, almost satirical meaning. So, too, with his understated observation about Puerto Ricans who might ''qualify'' as African-Americans, which implied that being labeled black was a kind of privilege in a nation that was in fact still segregated.
 There was a hint in this of carefully managed subversion -- of meticulous, even-handed scholarship that pointed to the searing truths of racial injustice, just as one of Dr. Franklin's great forebears, W. E. B. Du Bois, had done in his classic ''Souls of Black Folk.'' (At age 11, he heard Du Bois speak in Tulsa. Later, the two became friends.) At the same time, Dr. Franklin's discussion of racial ambiguity pioneered a new form of scholarship that questioned familiar categories and foreshadowed the work of later scholars like the social scientist Orlando Patterson, who continue to examine the complex realities of race in an increasingly plural world.
 What set Dr. Franklin apart, however, was that his dual character as both scholar and moralist carried over from his historical studies to his life. When Thurgood Marshall's team of lawyers began building their legal challenge to segregation in the case that resulted in the Brown v. Board of Education decision in 1954, they naturally turned to Dr. Franklin and his command of the tangled realities behind the phrase ''separate but equal.''
 A decade later Dr. Franklin became more visible in the civil rights movement, joining the march on Selma led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Because Dr. Franklin's reputation as a scholar was so high, this seemed less an act of protest than of historical witness: the man who had documented the history of black America was now a first-hand participant in its next essential chapter.
 Through it all, Dr. Franklin remained a public figure with a rich private life. He was famously generous and collegial, even to young scholars, a tall, impeccably dressed man of courtly mien and old-fashioned manners tending his beloved orchids at home in Durham, N.C., like a Southern gentleman of the old school who happened to be black.
 He was much honored in his time -- the first African-American president of the American Historical Association; the first black professor to hold an endowed chair at Duke, where a center for interdisciplinary and international studies and a humanities institute carry on his name and work; the first African-American to present a paper at the segregated Southern Historical Association; and a recipient of the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, awarded to him by President Bill Clinton in 1995.
 He was too serious a historian to think the past could simply be erased and was therefore not impressed by the current vogue for legislative apologies for slavery. ''If I was sitting on a billion dollars that someone had made when I sat on them, I probably would not be slow to apologize, if that's all it takes,'' he said in an interview in 2007 with the Independent Weekly of North Carolina. This sounded bitter, and in some sense it was.
 He took pains to remind us how much of our history -- of his history -- we'd like to forget. He told the stories often: about the time his family was ejected from a train for not moving from the colored section; of being crammed into a hot, packed segregated train car returning from a commencement exercise in 1945, while four or five white men lounged in the otherwise empty car behind it. It turned out they were German prisoners of war.
 So when he calculated the balance between progress and despair, the sum total often seemed bleak. 
 ''We might be better off in some ways,'' he said in 2004. ''But as long as we have more blacks in jail than in college, as long as we have more blacks unemployed than we have in college, as long as we have a system which will not provide adequate and decent affordable housing even for people who can afford it, we're not very far.''
 His view was particularly bleak when I interviewed him in 1995 just before his 80th birthday. He was distressed by the tide of white anger that had created the new Republican majority in the House of Representatives. ''There's no magnanimity, no concession, no sense of compassion or understanding of the plight of some others,'' Dr. Franklin said. 
 He went on: ''I concede that it's probably my age, but as I approach -- what is it Dr. Reagan said the other day, the sunset of my life -- I don't see enough that is different from what I experienced X numbers of years ago. The big picture is still the subtleties and the sophistication that characterize the maintenance of the status quo.''
 Dr. Franklin was too sophisticated to see any one event apart from the grand sweep of history. And he no doubt realized how much the nation's notion of race had changed from a world of black and white to the open-ended panoply of the multicultural present.
 Still the one core value he never strayed from was the value of integration, as well he might since his father had left Louisiana because he had not been allowed to practice law there and had eventually settled in the all-black town of Rentiesville, Okla. In a sense Dr. Franklin's scholarship served the cause of integration, too, by blending the African-American story into the broader American one. And so it was particularly satisfying when an African-American -- moreover, one of complex racial ancestry -- realized Dr. Franklin's own absurd childhood fantasy and was elected president.
 ''I didn't think it would happen in my lifetime,'' Dr. Franklin said last year after Barack Obama's nomination. It reminded him that the history he had told so well included chapters in which real progress had been made. ''It's an indication of the willingness as well as the ability of this country to turn a significant corner toward full political equality.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the late historian John Hope Franklin misstated a word in a quotation by Dr. Franklin. He said, ''I concede that it's probably my age, but as I approach -- what is it Mr. Reagan said the other day, the sunset of my life -- I don't see enough that is different from what I experienced X numbers of years ago.'' Dr. Franklin did not say ''Dr. Reagan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REMEMBERING: The historian John Hope Franklin took pains to remind us of how much of his and our history we would like to forget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEREK ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK1)
 SEPARATE, UNEQUAL: A rail station in Oklahoma City in 1955. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); THEATER (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); SLAVERY (71%); BESTSELLERS (71%); WRITERS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1193 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Q & A/ARNOLD PALMER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Approaching the Economy With Optimism

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
It was just before 10:15 a.m. Thursday, and the host of the Arnold Palmer Invitational was moving through his check list. He had polished off an 8 a.m. breakfast speech to some tournament partners and a 10 a.m. photo-op with about 50 South American collaborators in a golf course venture. 
 Six months shy of his 80th birthday, tan and smiling, Arnold Palmer checked his watch. He had some time before a scheduled interview, so he sat down in the well-worn leather chair behind his desk, uncapped his Sharpie and began to sign. 
His callused fingers engulfed the marker and the big hand moved swiftly, with near-artistic precision, putting one of sport's most recognizable signatures on an array of hats, photographs, posters, programs and scorecards from around the globe.
 More than three and a half decades after his 52nd and final PGA Tour victory in 1973, this is how Arnold Palmer remains one of the world's most popular athletes. People who might never have seen him play, who have no idea he won 29 times from 1960 to '64 -- including six of his seven major championships -- still flood his office with letters asking for autographs. He signs every one.
 ''We've never had an exact figure, but it has to be near a million,'' Bev Norwood, a close Palmer associate for 31 years, said when asked how many Palmer had signed. 
 That many autographs already in circulation could explain why a vintage Pennzoil piggy bank bearing Palmer's signature had not yet fetched an opening eBay bid of $4.99 by Friday. Palmer is proud of the autograph glut he has created, and plans to keep prices down by continuing to sign for free. He then turned his attention to the golf market.
 Q.Your tournament seems to be doing well despite the tough economy. Is it?
 A. It is. We have more going on than we have ever had. The crowds have been good. We could use some more sponsors, but there's a lot of action. 
 Q. Some other events on Tour are challenged, though. Does it concern you?
 A. I'm not overly concerned. I think maybe we're overstating the overall seriousness of the situation. The financial houses and the automotive industry are hit the hardest. But I think that will come back. 
 Q.You were born and raised during the Great Depression. Any vivid memories?
 A. I have a lot of recollections. My father was a greenskeeper. I can remember details of what we had to do to survive, and I know in our case we lived on the edge of a golf course, and we thought it was normal that we raised chickens, we raised pigs, we butchered in the fall, and it was all a result of the Depression. In 1939, my father bought a four-door Chevrolet, financed it, and he paid it off in 1948. That kind of thing was sort of commonplace.
 Q.In 1960, you and the Masters and television converged and you became synonymous with the event. Lately there is talk about how lengthening Augusta National has drained some drama because people want to see ...
 A. Birdies and eagles, right? There's no question that the galleries still like to see birdies and eagles. If you take them all away, it takes some of the dramatics, the excitement of a golf tournament, and we don't want to do that. 
 The complete interview with Arnold Palmer can be found at nytimes.com/golf.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (85%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009



1194 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Life in the Housing Market

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
Correction Appended
 THERE are cranes in motion at several large residential sites in New Jersey, despite something close to paralysis in the housing and mortgage markets.
 Steel is rising in Jersey City and Morristown and Weehawken, for example. But at the Esperanza of Asbury Park, work was halted with the construction just above ground level, while at the failed Centuria project in Fort Lee, the land is up for sale again. And it appears that steel hasn't even been ordered yet for other towers and complexes around northern New Jersey that were originally proposed to be opening by 2010.
 ''Nine out of 10 lenders'' have stopped making construction loans for projects with 100 or more units, according to the developer David Barry, the president of the Applied Companies in Hoboken. ''But that leaves some that are lending money.'' 
 ''A larger company, with a history,'' like his, or the Roseland Property Company, another residential builder that has several projects under construction now, ''can secure financing and begin work, and will be poised to take advantage of the next market cycle, at the start of it,'' Mr. Barry said.
 His company's development arm, called Ironstate, began work last fall on a 15-story rental tower in Jersey City, even as Wall Street, 10 minutes away by PATH train, had begun imploding. That structure has risen six floors at this point, and Ironstate is set to break ground on another one this spring, at its Shipyard complex in Hoboken.
 The Jersey City tower, called 225 Grand, for its address on Grand Street one block north of a light rail station, will have 348 apartments, an enclosed parking garage and ground-floor retailing. It is being built in partnership with SK Properties, which has constructed two other large complexes in Jersey City in recent years.
 The housing analyst Jeffrey G. Otteau raised an alarm last year about potential overbuilding of multifamily housing units in Hudson County, where tens of thousands of units were approved during the boom years -- and where the market for condominiums has declined from the strongest to one of the weaker markets in the state in the past year.
 In addition, new rules issued by Fannie Mae make it likely that few banks would be willing to issue mortgages to buyers of units in new condominiums. But rentals are different, Mr. Barry said. ''Rental buildings are the strongest space in all of real estate right now,'' he said. 
 ''It is true that rents are softening a bit, even in Hudson County,'' he added, ''but for the most part, they have been holding up fairly well.''
 ''We believe strongly in the fundamental health of the region,'' said Mr. Barry, whose father, Joseph, founded his company almost 40 years ago, and who currently runs the business with his brother, Michael.
 ''Everyone thinks the world is literally coming to an end,'' Mr. Barry added. ''We try to remain conscious of the cycle and are poised to take advantage when the next one begins.''
 Debra Tantleff, a vice president of Roseland, sounded the same forward-looking note. Her company is building a condo tower and a rental tower in Morristown and also broke ground in December on Monaco Towers, twin 50-story rental buildings in Jersey City. 
 ''It is a challenge bringing new buildings into a market like this, when the cycle is on the downside,'' Ms. Tantleff said, ''but we are creating units at various price points that will be in place at the moment of the next uptick.''
 Both she and Mr. Barry said they expected some improvement in the economy and the housing market within the next six to 18 months.
 Roseland's Monaco Towers was originally planned as condos, but switched to rentals after the market soured last year. Ms. Tantleff said a group of seven banks, led by PNC, is financing the construction. Jersey City officials pressed hard to get the project going, awarding it property tax abatements, and the lenders ''were convinced that we have a valuable asset to bring to the market.''
 Meanwhile, several other high-profile projects planned for Jersey City are proceeding with less alacrity.
 Construction of a second tower at the Trump Plaza condominiums has been postponed, without a date for construction being set, according to the developer.
 There has also been no move to start work on 111 First, the mixed-use tower planned for the Powerhouse Arts District, although the design by the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas was announced with much fanfare in February 2007.
 And Provost Square, another massive complex planned for the Arts District by Toll Brothers, is awaiting the outcome of a lawsuit filed by a local arts group, which says its scale violates the redevelopment plan for the area. ''Even if we started today, we wouldn't be bringing a product online until 2011,'' said Benjamin D. Jogodnik, a vice president at Toll's City Living division.
 ''That's not a bad thing,'' he added. ''Now is the time to be planning and preparing for when the cycle changes.''
 In Morristown, Roseland is putting up the 40 Park condominium building -- where more than half of the 73 units have been sold -- and also a 130-unit rental building called the Metropolitan directly across a courtyard from it, at the same time. The construction crane sits in the courtyard, and moves back and forth between the buildings as the floors go up, Ms. Tantleff said.
 The company, a partner with Woodmont Properties on the overall redevelopment of downtown Morristown, is also about to finish work on a parking garage that will be part of its Transit Village project adjacent to the Morristown train station. Work is underway on the Highlands at Morristown Station, another rental building, planned to be more modestly priced than the Metropolitan.
 ''It's challenging to have so many significant projects in one place at one time when the economy is so stressed,'' Ms. Tantleff said. ''On the other hand, we're proud that we have been able to keep people working with construction jobs during a time when not that much else is going on.''
 Correction: April 12, 2009
 The ''In the Region'' article in New Jersey copies on March 29 about rental buildings that are under construction misstated the status of the Highlands at Morristown Station. Construction is under way; the start of building is not awaiting completion of a parking garage in the Transit Village project in Morristown.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The ''In the Region'' article in New Jersey copies on March 29 about rental buildings that are under construction misstated the status of the Highlands at Morristown Station. Construction is under way; the start of building is not awaiting completion of a parking garage in the Transit Village project in Morristown.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RISING STEEL: The developer David Barry, right, and his partner, Jonathan Kushner, at the 225 Grand rental tower in Jersey City.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



1195 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: A Fight for the Right to Filibuster

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
The term reconciliation typically conveys a sense of rapprochement reminiscent of restored ties between the United States and China or Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis. But in Congress, reconciliation can mean the opposite, conjuring up relationships more along the lines of Yankees versus Red Sox or Microsoft versus Apple.
 Republicans are in a tizzy that Democrats are threatening to use the budgetary procedure known as reconciliation -- it reconciles policy with fiscal guidelines -- to overhaul the health care system, possibly enact legislation on climate change and rewrite education policy. 
 They have good reason to fret. If Democrats successfully invoke reconciliation, such major bills could pass by a simple majority vote, denying Republicans the filibuster, their sole remaining weapon to influence federal policy given the Democratic grip on government.
 ''It stinks,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said of the prospect.
 But Republicans face a couple of problems as they furiously push back against the idea, chief of which is that they themselves used the process on multiple occasions, notably when enacting more than $1 trillion in tax cuts in 2001.
 That means critics can have a field day lampooning Republicans and asking them -- as Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, did repeatedly the other day -- why reconciliation was such a good idea when it came to giving tax cuts to millionaires but such a bad one when it comes to trying to provide health care to average Americans.
 The record is also replete with statements by Republicans like Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the party's leader on budget issues, praising the logic of reconciliation. 
 ''We are using the rules of the Senate here,'' Mr. Gregg said in 2005 as he fought off Democratic complaints that reconciliation was wrongly being employed to block filibusters against opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. ''Is there something wrong with majority rules? I don't think so.'' 
 But he and other Republicans, with some Democrats concurring, say that using reconciliation to accomplish Mr. Obama's sweeping objectives would distort the intent of a procedure meant mainly to lower the deficit, not restructure the national economy.
 ''It is not appropriate to use reconciliation, which cuts off the role of the Senate, on something as broad and extensive as rewriting the health care laws of this country,'' Mr. Gregg said in one of his many efforts to explain why he is against reconciliation after he was for it.
 But the lengthy record of Republican support for fast-tracking budget-related bills definitely dilutes their ability to challenge Democrats on the issue. They have to hope that enough Senate Democrats stick to their view that it would be too divisive to use the Senate shortcut for policy as fundamental as health care changes or a new limit on carbon pollution. 
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, has taken that position, as has Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the committee that would have to write a good chunk of any health care measure. Other Senate centrists have also challenged the reconciliation idea, raising the possibility that Democrats might not be able to pass a final budget if it allows for the filibuster end run.
 The resistance of some Senate Democrats infuriates many House members and Obama administration officials. They believe it would be downright foolish for Democrats to give up their best leverage when Republicans have so far shown little inclination to cooperate with them or Mr. Obama on major legislation. 
 At a minimum, they say, reconciliation has to remain on the table to force Republicans to get serious about working with Democrats. As a result, House Democrats included the possibility of reconciliation in their budget and hope to force it into the final version in negotiations with the Senate
 Some Republicans have likened the building struggle over budget reconciliation to the 2005 Senate fight over Democratic filibusters against President George W. Bush's judicial nominees. 
 Frustrated at the opposition, Republicans warned that they would invoke the ''nuclear option'' and change Senate rules to ban filibusters against executive branch nominations. Democrats characterized that as an assault on the very nature of the Senate and threatened to bring the chamber to a standstill. 
 The showdown was averted. But now that their party is in the minority, some Republicans have begun suggesting that if Democrats insist on reconciliation, they will gum up the Senate to the greatest extent possible, using their remaining procedural rights to essentially shut the chamber down.
 Democrats say Republicans are already doing a pretty good job of slowing business in the Senate. They say that maneuvers like forcing clerks to read bills in their entirety and other dilatory tactics would cement once and for all the Republican image as obstructionists.
 Republicans have another hurdle as well. The so-called nuclear option would have represented a change in Senate rules. But as Mr. Gregg pointed out in 2005, reconciliation is already allowed and Republicans have relied on it many times, a point Democrats, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, intend to make again and again.
 ''Some of these same people on the Republican side didn't have a problem with it -- and we have their quotes -- when President Bush wanted to push forward his tax cuts to the wealthiest people in America,'' Ms. Pelosi said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); WILDLIFE (62%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (77%); JERRY LEWIS (72%); KENT CONRAD (57%); JOHN CORNYN (57%); BERNIE SANDERS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ARCTIC (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1196 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: If It's Spring, Budget Talks Are in the Air

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN KILEY

DATELINE: Fairfield 

 BODY:
 ON the second day of spring, when other people were making their first forays into the garden, more than 150 residents of this town filled the senior center to argue against budget increases, to question little-known revenue assumptions and to implore the officials not to cut education while at the same time keeping taxes from increasing. 
 At the Saturday meeting, no mention was made of the estimated $42 million the town pension fund lost to Bernard L. Madoff''s Ponzi scheme. But changing fortunes in Fairfield's finances -- and indeed, in the finances of so many people in Connecticut and the rest of the country -- have spurred residents like Gaylord Meyer and Pamela Jones to take a greater role in how the town spends taxpayers' money. Both were prepared for the meeting: They brought their dog-eared budget books and notes from past meetings, ready to discuss why revenue projections were overly optimistic during one of the worst housing slumps in decades. 
 Ms. Meyer and Ms. Jones, who are friends but sit on opposite sides of the political aisle, have become grass-roots activists for fiscal responsibility. ''I'd gotten to the point where I got so enraged by A.I.G., Madoff and the increase in the town budget, I'd decided to do something about it,'' said Ms. Meyer, an entrepreneur. She and Ms. Jones, a lawyer, have formed Fairfielders for Fiscal Responsibility to rally residents around the issues.
 Until recently, neither woman had ever attended a town budget meeting, nor understood the importance of conveyance revenue, a fee collected when a home sells. Fairfield collects one-quarter of 1 percent on the sale of each property, said Michael Tetreau, vice president of sales at William Raveis Real Estate in Fairfield.
 Mr. Tetreau, who is also a member of the town's Board of Finance, said that fewer home sales could translate into a significant decline in revenue.
 Fred Carstensen, director of the University of Connecticut's Center of Economic Analysis, agreed. ''When it comes to paying property taxes,'' he said, ''I just see people walking into banks and putting the keys on their desks because they can't afford to pay.''
 Kenneth Brachfeld, who serves on Fairfield's Police and Fire Retirement Board, said, ''This is just a microcosm of what's going on in our country: People feel the need to get involved.'' On a folded copy of the day's newspaper, he kept score of those opposed to any increase in the budget and those willing to accept a proposed 2.7 percent increase. 
 Fairfield's proposed budget now stands at $252 million. The school system accounts for $142.9 million, while the town's operating costs would be $82.5 million and the remaining $27 million would be for debt service. If the budget were approved -- it would go into effect on July 1 -- the town's mill rate would increase to 19.15 from 18.58, a 3.07 percent increase. (The mill rate is the amount of tax paid per dollar on assessed property.)
 Kenneth Flatto, Fairfield's First Selectman, said the Board of Selectmen was proposing cuts to both the town and education budgets that would lower the rate to 18.90, a 1.5 percent increase. ''We're listening,'' he said.
 The Board of Finance is to vote on the budget on Monday and Tuesday. Representative town meetings will discuss the results on April 27 and May 4. If a majority of residents are not happy with the budget, they can petition for a referendum.
 But some, especially those with children in the town's schools, might argue against cutting the school budget. ''I understand the economic times,'' said Leann Ratner, a lifelong resident and member of the PTA. ''But school attendance is at record levels.''
 Whether Fairfield can put a cap on budget growth will be debated in the coming weeks. Other municipalities, including Danbury, which was also affected by the Madoff scheme, are keeping their town and education budgets the same as last year. Danbury is offering early retirement to city employees, freezing pay and scaling back on services, said David St. Hilaire, its director of finance.
 Regardless of the outcome, some residents, including Ms. Jones and Ms. Meyer, may find that they can make even a small difference during these difficult times. ''Too many people sit around and complain about these issues,'' Ms. Meyer said. ''Stand up and do something.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); PONZI SCHEMES (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1197 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: Real Voice of the Yankees Can Sometimes Pack a Snarl

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
When politicians questioned the propriety of the Yankees' $1.2 billion in tax-exempt bonds for their new stadium, Randy Levine, the team's president, scolded them for having their facts wrong or for failing to examine similar financing for the Mets' Citi Field.
 When the Milwaukee Brewers' owner criticized the Yankees for signing $423.5 million in free agents this off-season, Levine countered, as he frequently has: we follow the rules, so don't tell us how to invest our money.
 In recent years, as George Steinbrenner has faded from view as the principal owner, Levine has emerged as the strongest voice of the Yankees, baseball's wealthiest team. He is their executive-as-prosecutor, a tough, short-tempered and smart protector of the Steinbrenner family and the Yankees brand.
 ''If you attack me unfairly, there are no free shots,'' Levine said. 
 No other Yankees executive -- not Steinbrenner's sons, Hal and Hank; Brian Cashman, the general manager; or Lonn Trost, the chief operating officer -- is as willfully aggressive.
 ''Part of Randy likes to fight,'' said Hal Steinbrenner, the managing general partner. ''He has a history of not backing down. He likes to be the bad cop. I'm the good cop.''
 The family has never asked Levine to restrain his style. Hal Steinbrenner said he ''absolutely'' applauded Levine's castigations of Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a persistent critic of the stadium's financing. Levine has angrily accused Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat, of attacking the Yankees name for political ends.
 Levine's occasionally choleric behavior is not an act, he said, but evidence that he can change speeds on his rhetorical pitches. 
 ''I get angry, but I try not to let anger color my job,'' he said.
 The brusque Brodsky says he sees Levine as ''someone who thinks the world responds to bullying and verbal violence.'' After a public hearing at which Levine, 54, turned red while yelling at him, Brodsky said: ''He couldn't have been acting. His face was too purple.''
 On a recent tour of the stadium, Levine was charming and relaxed, and repeatedly described the ballpark that his deal-making helped create with one word: grandeur.
 ''It had better be, for a billion and a half dollars,'' he said with a laugh. 
 Years in the Background
 Levine's career has been a succession of increasingly public apprenticeships: to Arnold I. Burns, the deputy attorney general in the Reagan Justice Department; to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, as the labor commissioner and a deputy mayor; and to Steinbrenner, as a personal lawyer and, since 2000, as the team's president.
 Burns said Levine's feistiness was not evident early on.
 ''He was always very self-effacing and stepped into the background,'' Burns said. ''He waited for his time in the sun.''
 When the two men moved into private practice and negotiated Steinbrenner's return to baseball in 1992 from a lifetime suspension, Burns said: ''Randy always walked a step or two behind the Boss, never a step ahead. That's why they have such a splendid relationship.''
 Levine calls Burns his true mentor, but he is more identified as that rare New York species: someone who has thrived as a close aide to Giuliani and to Steinbrenner.
 To have worked for them for so long ''dwarfs any other analysis of him,'' said Gene Orza, the chief operating officer of the Major League Baseball Players Association.
 Giuliani said, ''It just shows that he's a tough guy.''
 Levine's natural aggressiveness has worked well with Giuliani's tempestuousness and Steinbrenner's bombast. He defends them, quotes them, defers to them and, to some critics, adopts the arrogance borne by working for two willful people.
 ''They don't like yes men,'' Levine said recently at the 43rd-floor Midtown offices of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, the law firm where he is senior counsel and works part time on labor cases. ''They like it when I tell them my opinion. Sometimes they agree, sometimes they don't, but they want me to speak my mind because they know my motives are pure.''
 The Negotiator
 Levine's headstrong style has been visible in telling the Boston Red Sox to tend to their own business; encouraging questions that put Joe Torre, then the Yankees' manager, on the spot after games on the team's YES Network; and in talks to secure the stadium deal and to create Legends Hospitality Management, a food-concession company with the Dallas Cowboys.
 ''It's tough love with Randy,'' said Gerry Cardinale, a friend and managing director at Goldman Sachs, the investment bank that is a partner in YES and Legends. ''He is brutally honest, has a very high demand for performance and little tolerance for not getting his way. He respects me because I won't back down.''
 During labor negotiations with correction officers in the mid-'90s, the union's president, Norman I. Seabrook, said recently, Levine's closed-door demeanor was close to a blood sport that neither man took too seriously.
 ''He'll smile, shake your hand and cut your heart out if you're not prepared,'' Seabrook said. ''Don't mistake that smile for anything but a knife.''
 Randi Weingarten recalled labor talks with the United Federation of Teachers in 1995, when Levine demanded a two-year wage freeze while promising that Giuliani administration officials would not receive raises. After the deal was completed, the city raises were announced.
 ''That's one of those things you never do in a labor relationship,'' said Weingarten, now the union's president. 
 When this was relayed to Levine, he said, ''We signed an agreement; people have to live with an agreement.''
 At a hearing about stadium financing this month, Levine accused Brodsky of being on a ''witch hunt'' and of using ''Soviet-style tactics'' in subpoenaing him, and told him that he is ''not the dictator of the state who can overrule everybody else.''
 Brodsky countered, ''I will remind you, Mr. Levine, that the Giuliani years are over.''
 Levine turned from the witness table with a smile, his morning's joust over.
 ''Entertaining, wasn't it?'' he said as he left the Manhattan hearing room.
 Months earlier, before the start of a Congressional subcommittee hearing investigating the Yankees' stadium financing, he was eager to undermine the credibility of the panel's chairman, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich. Levine's prepared remarks were meant to remind Kucinich that he was the mayor of Cleveland when it became the first major city to default on its bonds since the Depression.
 Kucinich had read the six-page text and knew Levine would be baiting him while praising the financial impact of government incentives like the tax-exempt bonds. Minutes before his turn to speak, Levine was asked if he needed to take the swipe at Kucinich.
 ''Just watch me,'' he said. 
 Protecting the Family 
 The curly-haired, sometimes-rumpled Levine was born in Brooklyn and lives in Manhattan with his wife of 18 years, Mindy, and their four dogs. Friends say that his anger will dissipate immediately if his wife calls in the middle of a negotiation. ''His veins might be popping from his neck,'' Cardinale said, ''and then she calls and he says, 'Hi, honey.' ''
 Levine uses both sides of his personality to defend the team, the Steinbrenners and their business. He argues the team's player-arbitration cases. He pushed to void Jason Giambi's contract for his steroid use and Carl Pavano's for failing to report promptly that he had been hurt in a car accident during injury rehabilitation. Levine was assigned the diplomatic task late last year of soliciting the input of Steinbrenner family members on whether Hal should take control of the team.
 ''He went to my siblings and my mom and went over what the job requires,'' Hal said.
 Levine said, ''George trusted me, as an honest broker, to explain what the control person does,'' adding that a crucial moment came when Hank said, '' 'I'm the baseball guy. My brother has the head for this.'
 ''Then I went to George.''
 The player agent Arn Tellem described Levine as ''George's Yiddish son.'' 
 Levine is uncomfortable with the comparison, but he plays a role that is more like that of the eldest son of an aging patriarch. 
 ''George Steinbrenner is a very dear friend who's done a lot for me,'' Levine said. As protector of the family's interests, he said, ''The Yankee brand is so successful that a lot of people for their own reasons seek to glom onto it, attach themselves to it or attempt to disparage it, which I believe is unfair.''
 A New Stadium
 Giuliani said that Steinbrenner saw in Levine someone who could navigate baseball's revenue-sharing and luxury-tax system that was introduced in the 1996 labor agreement -- and was negotiated by Levine for the owners while he was between jobs at City Hall. 
 ''The Yankees wanted a leg up on the maneuvering that goes on in that system,'' Giuliani said. 
 Now, when Yankees spending is questioned by rival owners who do not, or cannot, spend the way the Yankees do, his response is a variation of this: ''You voted for the system, you receive a lot of money from the system, so don't tell us how to run our business.''
 He added: ''It's fair to criticize us, but not in a way that's hypocritical.''
 Mark Attanasio, the Brewers' owner, recognized the Yankees' fundamental position when he suggested that their recent signings of C. C. Sabathia, A. J. Burnett and Mark Teixeira made the case for a salary cap. Levine's job is to take arms against teams who want more from the Yankees.
 ''Sometimes he's put in a position where he needs to be contentious,'' Attanasio said, ''because the Yankees take outlier positions on a number of issues, some economic.''
 Levine's knowledge of city government became crucial in the team's long-delayed quest to replace Yankee Stadium. He would get what the team wanted -- part of it coming in negotiations with one of his successors as deputy mayor, Daniel L. Doctoroff.
 ''We had a good relationship, but it got testy at times,'' Doctoroff said. ''It was a big complicated deal where the leverage shifted at different points of time, with one taking advantage of the other at one point or another in time.''
 In a 2006 e-mail message to another city official about whether they should accede to Levine's terms to secure a luxury suite at the new stadium, Doctoroff wrote: ''Let's not give. I don't trust him.''
 Doctoroff said that when the message was recently disclosed, he called Levine to apologize, saying the insult was expressed during the heat of a negotiation. ''I told him I don't feel that way at all,'' Doctoroff said.
 Levine said, ''We had a good laugh about it.'' 
 But his in-your-face style did not work as well with less powerful community officials, like those who opposed the Yankee Stadium plan to build on parkland. Anita Antonetty, one of 16 Community Board 4 members ousted for voting against the project, said: ''His attitude was, how dare you object to this -- we're the Yankees.
 ''He came out of the Giuliani administration, so there was no negotiating at all.''
 Levine, the proxy for the Yankees triumph, dismissed Antonetty.
 ''She's been heard and unfortunately for her -- and fortunately for us -- the stadium got built,'' he said, adding: ''I'm from the Giuliani school. It's business, not personal. The 'Godfather' mantra.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Randy Levine, once known as a tough negotiator in the Giuliani administration, aggressively protects the Yankees' interests as the team's president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.SP1)
 Randy Levine, right, served Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani as the city's labor commissioner and as a deputy mayor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES, 1999) (pg.SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); POLITICS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (67%); BULLYING (63%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (58%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1198 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4823 words

HEADLINE: Hell Nay, We Won't Pay!

BYLINE: By JASON ZENGERLE. 
Jason Zengerle is a senior editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
On Monday, April 16, 1990, millions of Americans sent their tax returns to the Internal Revenue Service. Peter Hendrickson sent a bomb. He was 34 years old, and since graduating from high school, he'd cobbled together an unremarkable career that included a stint as a video-arcade manager and other odd jobs. The only realm in which he showed direction -- even distinction -- was fringe politics. He was a Libertarian Party activist with a flair for the dramatic. On several occasions, he hired a plane to tow a ''Ron Paul for President'' ba nner over the University of Michigan football stadium during Paul's otherwise-little-noticed 1988 presidential campaign. 
 One evening in the spring of '89, Hendrickson and his girlfriend, Doreen Wright (they met while working on Paul's campaign), were at a barbecue at her house in suburban Detroit with some fellow members of the Metro Detroit Libertarians. Eventually, the conversation turned to that old Libertarian bugaboo, the income tax. Like many people of his ideological persuasion, Hendrickson was familiar with a book titled ''The Great Income Tax Hoax,'' written by a former insurance broker named Irwin Schiff, which argued that, among other things, the tax was unconstitutional. In order to ''raise the consciousness'' about the evil of the income tax, Hendrickson proposed to the Metro Detroit Libertarians an audacious act of protest, something different from passing out fliers and holding up signs -- something that, as he later recalled, ''could not be kept quiet.'' His idea found some takers and, over the course of the next year, Hendrickson, Wright and a married couple, Scott and Karen Scarborough, devised and carried out a plan to build a firebomb and mail it to the I.R.S. 
 On tax day, Hendrickson and the Scarboroughs drove a parcel containing the bomb to the post office in Royal Oak, Mich., where Scott Scarborough placed it in a mail bin outside. Hendrickson had wrapped a Bigelow tea bag around the bomb's tubing -- in homage to the Boston Tea Party, America's founding act of tax protest -- and addressed the package to ''The Tax Thieves.'' The return address read, ''Freedom Loving Americans.''
 While the package was still in the bin, it began to smoke. When an alert postal worker plucked the smoldering envelope from the bin and stomped on it, the bomb detonated. The postal worker went to the hospital with burns on his hands and face. Postal inspectors initiated a major investigation and traced the package back to Hendrickson, who ultimately went to prison for his part in the scheme.
 Today, nearly two decades later, Hendrickson would appear to be a testament to the rehabilitative powers of the federal penal system. In the years after the bombing, he married Wright, and they had two children. He also achieved professional success as a midlevel executive with a real estate development company. When I visited him last year at his family's modest ranch house in the Detroit suburb of Commerce Township, I found a portrait of middle-class contentment. Hendrickson, who is balding with a stocky build and wears large glasses, invited me inside and offered me a cup of tea. There was a piano in the living room and an aboveground swimming pool in the backyard. Parked in the driveway sat a late-model S.U.V., which Hendrickson uses on weekends to chauffeur his teenage son to soccer tournaments.
 There's one thing, though, that has prevented Hendrickson's complete metamorphosis from mail bomber to soccer dad: his views about the income tax. Although he no longer contends that the tax is unconstitutional -- a misguided notion, he says, that led to his misguided actions of 19 years ago -- he does believe the tax is grossly misapplied. The incomes of most Americans, he argues, aren't legally subject to state or federal income tax. It's a belief he has spelled out at some length in his book ''Cracking the Code: The Fascinating Truth About Taxation in America.'' One part Talmudic reading of the tax code, one part populist jeremiad against ''a swollen cadre of politically astute private interests and their camp-followers,'' the book, which he self-published in 2003, claims to prove that the only income that's taxable under the law is that which is paid out by the government in salaries, grants, investment dividends and other means.
 This ''truth,'' Hendrickson argues, is one that the government desperately tries to conceal from its citizens. ''Americans are trained to be afraid of the subject of the income tax,'' he told me as we sat in his living room, a copy of ''Cracking the Code'' resting between us on a table. ''If you're afraid of something, you just kind of keep your eyes averted. That's how the I.R.S. and other beneficiaries of the misunderstanding of the income tax want people to behave.'' He prices the book at $25 a copy but offers much of its content free on his Web site. ''Getting the information out there is the important thing,'' he said.
 Thanks to ''Cracking the Code'' -- which, by his count, has spawned ''CtC Warrior'' support groups in 48 states -- Hendrickson has found, as he puts it, ''a more productive'' way to fight the income tax. Rather than mail a bomb to the I.R.S., he has taught thousands of Americans how to send the I.R.S. and state tax agencies what he calls ''educated returns'' -- and what the I.R.S. calls fraudulent ones. By including substitute W-2 and 1099 forms that show little or no income, an educated return seems to qualify filers for refunds of the money withheld from their paychecks. 
 According to the I.R.S.'s internal statistics, the agency received more than 10,000 such ''educated'' returns between 2005 and 2007. Remarkably, these returns often work just as their filers intended. On his Web site, Hendrickson posts scanned images of the refund checks his readers have received. The tally now stands just shy of $10 million, which Hendrickson claims is an undercount since ''many people out there don't get around to sending me their evidence.'' Indeed, Hendrickson has had so much success selling ''Cracking the Code'' that in 2006 he quit his real estate job and began working full time on tax issues. When I visited him about three weeks before the tax-filing deadline last year, he was swamped with more than 150 e-mail messages a day from readers. ''A lot of people look for clarifications of something that I've written,'' he explained. ''In other cases it's people who are just telling me what they did.''
 All of this has once again brought Hendrickson into conflict with the authorities. For the last four years the I.R.S. has listed the ''Cracking the Code'' tax-filing method in its ''Dirty Dozen Tax Scams'' list. In 2006, the Justice Department successfully sued Hendrickson, his wife and seven ''Cracking the Code'' readers for filing false tax returns; the government sought to recoup the refund money it had erroneously disbursed. In 2007, a federal court permanently barred Hendrickson and his wife from filing ''educated returns,'' threatening them with contempt citations if they did. And this past November, in the most serious legal action against Hendrickson since the indictment for his role in the bomb plot, the Justice Department charged him with 10 criminal counts of submitting false documents to the I.R.S. Each charge carries up to five years in prison.
 If the I.R.S. had a Most Wanted list, Hendrickson would almost certainly sit atop it. But he views the government's actions as a form of validation, as a series of signs that his ideas about the nature of the tax code are not only correct but also approaching what he calls that ''certain threshold at which something goes from being on the fringes of the general consciousness to being within the general consciousness.'' Otherwise, he reasons, why would the government bother?
 ''No one else has been charged with this kind of thing,'' he says. ''There isn't any effort to shut down anyone else's speech in the same fashion.''
 Not paying taxes -- or at least not wanting to -- is as American as apple pie. Just consider the recent tax travails of Tom Daschle and Timothy Geithner: Daschle was forced to withdraw his nomination as Barack Obama's secretary of health and human services because of his failure to pay taxes on unreported income and a limousine and driver; and while Geithner was ultimately confirmed as Obama's Treasury secretary, he now finds himself in the somewhat awkward position of running the I.R.S. after once owing it $34,000 in unpaid taxes. Or better yet, consider yourself: as tax day draws near, how many of you are waiting to hear good news from your accountants about various deductions and loopholes you can take advantage of when you file your returns next month? Is there anyone who's looking to obey the actual spirit, and not just the letter, of the tax laws? While libertarians tend to offer the most heated rhetoric when it comes to taxes -- from the political philosopher Robert Nozick's comparison of taxes on income to ''forced labor'' to Ron Paul's calls to abolish the I.R.S. -- the impulse to game the system is as much human as ideological.
 Indeed, for as long as the United States has had an income tax, Americans have been bridling against paying it. The U.S. Congress first began levying taxes on Americans' incomes in 1861, in order to pay for the Union cause in the Civil War. Resistance to the tax followed. In 1863, Chief Justice Roger Taney of the U.S. Supreme Court complained to the Treasury secretary about the deductions from federal judges' paychecks, contending that the tax violated the separation of powers. Before long, all federal employees were exempted from the income tax. The law authorizing the income tax was repealed in 1872.
 After the federal government reinstituted the income tax in 1894, a Massachusetts man named Charles Pollock sued the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company (in which he owned 10 shares) to stop it from paying the tax on the grounds that it didn't comply with the Constitution. He cited the ''capitation clause'' in Article I, which provides that Congress can impose direct taxes only if they are apportioned according to the population of each state. (This is the same clause of the Constitution that Irwin Schiff, the author of ''The Great Income Tax Hoax,'' would point to nearly a century later.) The Supreme Court ruled in Pollock's favor, and the 1894 law reinstituting the income tax was struck down as unconstitutional. 
 It wasn't long, however, before politicians on both sides of the aisle began agitating for a Constitutional amendment to overrule the Pollock decision, with Democrats calling for one in their party platform of 1896 and Teddy Roosevelt including one as part of his Square Deal proposal in 1907. Finally, in 1913, there was enough support to ratify the 16th Amendment -- which grants Congress the ''power to lay and collect taxes on incomes . . . without apportionment among the several States'' -- thus paving the way for the reinstitution of a federal income tax. In the 96 years since the 16th Amendment was ratified, no one has yet to make a successful legal argument against the legitimacy of the income tax.
 But that hasn't stopped people from trying. Today Hendrickson and others who describe themselves as members of the tax-honesty movement -- critics tend to call them tax deniers -- are brimming with legal arguments for why they don't have to pay the income tax. Some claim, based on elaborate, conspiracy-minded historical research, that the 16th Amendment was not in fact ratified by three-fourths of the states -- contrary to the assertions of the secretary of state at the time, Philander Knox. Others maintain that they are citizens not of the United States but only of the state in which they live. Or that they don't fit the definition of ''person'' as the term is used in the Internal Revenue Code. The truly persnickety contend that the 1040 form doesn't display a valid control number from the Office of Management and Budget, as addressed in the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, and thus the income tax is invalid. 
 The I.R.S. takes a predictably dim view of these sorts of arguments, but they are enough of a bureaucratic headache that in 2001 the agency created a 40-person unit devoted exclusively to dealing with them. The unit's official name is the Frivolous Return Program; unofficially it's called ''the funny box.'' When I.R.S. clerks receive tax returns or pieces of correspondence that make what the clerks suspect are frivolous arguments -- anything that cites sections of the tax code or court cases or mentions Philander Knox is generally considered suspect -- they forward them to the Frivolous Return Program's offices in Ogden, Utah. Each year, between 50,000 and 100,000 documents typically land in the funny box. If an argument is deemed frivolous, the I.R.S. replies by sending a two-page brochure titled ''Why Do I Have to Pay Taxes?'' along with a form letter that encourages the sender to file a correct return and refers him to an I.R.S. Web page that debunks the most common frivolous arguments.
 The I.R.S. admits that its response typically has little effect, and more often than not, the only way to deal with a tax denier is to take him to court. Since 2001, the Justice Department's tax division has obtained more than 350 civil injunctions against people selling or promoting frivolous tax arguments and has successfully prosecuted most of them, recouping an estimated $600 million. ''There are a few people who want real information, but most of them just want to argue with us,'' says the I.R.S.'s acting chief counsel, Clarissa Potter. ''They'll say they've spent many hours studying the code, and this is what they believe. They don't necessarily want to be enlightened to the fact that their argument is frivolous.'' 
 Nathan Hochman, who until recently served as the assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's tax division, notes that if a tax denier is taken to court, the odds are overwhelmingly against him. ''In over 95 percent of the cases that go to trial against tax defiers,'' he says, using the term that the Justice Department now prefers for tax deniers, ''the government has convicted these folks.'' Tax deniers often make the government's case rather easy, as many base their defenses on the legally unsound arguments that got them in trouble in the first place. Some make it even easier by coming up with newer, even more frivolous arguments -- like maintaining that if the American flag in the courtroom features gold fringe, then that flag is a ''maritime flag of war'' and the court therefore has no jurisdiction.
 When a prominent tax denier loses in court, it almost invariably spells the end of the popularity of whatever argument he was promoting. ''Obviously, getting sentenced to 13 years in prison doesn't really recommend you to anybody,'' says Dave Champion, a tax denier in California who runs a firm that advises individuals whom he insists on calling ''nontaxpayers.'' (''My adversary is the most powerful machine,'' he cautions, ''so I want to make clear I only work with nontaxpayers.'') But while a criminal conviction causes a tax denier's clients to lose faith in a particular guru, few of them lose faith in the movement as a whole. They simply go in search of a different guru with a different argument. ''They're like a bunch of lost sheep,'' says JJ MacNab, a financial planner who has testified on the tax-denial movement before the Senate Finance Committee. ''And there are all these shepherds fighting with one another to bring them into their flocks.''
 No tax denier has achieved more prominence than Irwin Schiff, the man whose writings helped spark Peter Hendrickson's initial hostility toward the income tax. Schiff started his professional life conventionally enough: he ran an insurance brokerage firm in Connecticut. But after he lost his and his clients' money in the late 1960s in a tax shelter that turned out to be a Ponzi scheme, he entered the netherworld of the nascent tax-honesty movement. While many tax deniers at the time were farmers in the Dakotas who were responding to a foreclosure crisis, Schiff, who held an accounting degree from the University of Connecticut, had an aura of economic expertise.
 Schiff also had the spirit -- and business ethics -- of a carnival barker. He wrote a half-dozen books, including the best seller ''How Anyone Can Stop Paying Their Income Taxes.'' He appeared on national TV shows like ''Larry King Live'' on CNN and ''The Tomorrow Show'' on NBC. When he wasn't barnstorming the country conducting seminars, he was working out of a storefront office in Las Vegas, where, behind a giant sign that read, ''Why Pay Income Taxes? When No Law Says You Have To?'' he peddled his services. According to one estimate, he had more than 50,000 clients, a figure that's even more remarkable when you consider he was operating in the pre-Internet era. 
 Schiff's business model was cynical but clever. His books, which instructed readers on how to file what he called ''zero returns'' in order to qualify for refunds, went for a reasonable $35 or so. He made his real money on what his books wrought. As MacNab, who is writing a history of tax deniers, explains: ''His readers would often have some initial success with those zero returns, but eventually they'd receive a letter from the I.R.S. alerting them that they'd made a frivolous tax argument, so they'd go back to Schiff and say, 'What do I do?' He'd say: 'Oh, we have a form letter you can send in response to that. It's an extra $50.' And every time the thing escalated, Schiff's next package cost a bit more money, all the way up to a $1,000 tax-court toolkit. The more desperate you got, the higher his prices went. A lot of people went to their ruin because of Schiff.''
 Including, it should be noted, Schiff himself. Although he was a scam artist, he was also a believer in his own scam, which was a fundamental tenet of what became his larger political philosophy. (In 1996, Schiff unsuccessfully ran for the Libertarian Party's presidential nomination.) He himself used the same methods he recommended to his clients, and he was twice convicted of tax crimes and served several stints in prison in the 1980s. His undoing came in 2005, when he was convicted on multiple charges of tax evasion; aiding and assisting in the preparation of false tax returns filed by other taxpayers; and conspiring to defraud the United States government. At the age of 78, he was sentenced to 13 years in prison. He's now being held at a federal penitentiary in Terre Haute, Ind., where he's reported to be in ill health.
 Schiff's downfall set off a free-for-all among lesser gurus, who vied to take his place. In addition to Hendrickson, Schiff's other heir apparent is a 46-year-old Iranian-born man named Peymon Mottahedeh. In a movement that's almost overwhelmingly white, Mottahedeh's ethnicity might seem to be an impediment to success, but he has managed to carve out a place for himself. Though he is not a lawyer, he runs an organization in suburban Los Angeles called Freedom Law School, which he founded in 1996. ''You've got Loyola Law School, U.C.L.A., Harvard,'' Mottahedeh told me, ''but in this land of the free, there was no law school committed to freedom?''
 Mottahedeh's clients -- or, as he insists on calling them, his students -- can purchase books and tapes from Freedom Law School that explain why you don't have to pay income taxes. More important, they can purchase peace of mind. Unlike Hendrickson, Mottahedeh doesn't offer tax deniers an argument per se, save for advising them not to file returns at all; rather, he offers them the services of Freedom Law School's ''freedom-fighting paralegals,'' who will help them respond to the I.R.S. if the agency ever comes after them. Freedom Law School's most expensive service -- something it bills as the ''Royal Freedom Package,'' which includes unlimited phone and in-person consultations and a legal defense fund ''in case of criminal I.R.S. attacks'' -- costs $6,000 to join and $2,500 for each additional year of membership.
 Mottahedeh advertises many of these packages over the Internet. But once a year he hosts a weekend conference so that he can hawk his wares in person, renting out a couple of ballrooms at a hotel in Newport Beach, Calif. Last March, I attended the gathering. About 150 people, some of whom traveled from as far away as Alaska and Rhode Island, mingled together, purchasing copies of the I.R.S.'s ''Handbook for Special Agents'' (not originally intended for sale) and reprints of the tax code, and listening to talks by prominent tax deniers. At the conference, Mottahedeh, who is short with bouffant hair and looks a little bit like a Persian Erik Estrada, proudly described a federal lawsuit he'd filed against an I.R.S. agent, accusing him of harassment. But a few months later, after the conference was over, an appeals court upheld the district court's dismissal of Mottahedeh's suit for his failure to serve the defendant properly. ''It doesn't matter,'' Mottahedeh recently told me. ''I'm going to sue them again anyway.''
 Despite their epic record of futility, tax deniers have occasionally had legal victories that have kept them out of jail. The most successful tactic is the ''willfulness defense,'' and its leading practitioner is a Milwaukee-based lawyer named Robert Bernhoft. Bernhoft was once a tax denier himself. As a student at the University of Wisconsin, he marketed a ''De-Taxing America Program'' that had 55 clients who claimed close to $700,000 in bogus tax refunds before a federal court issued an injunction shutting it down. But today, as a lawyer, he counsels his clients to base their defense not on the rightness of their beliefs but rather on the fact that they are sincere in them. ''We do not put people in prison who do not willfully and intentionally violate a known legal duty with bad faith,'' he says. Bernhoft is referring to the fact that, while everyone is legally accountable for paying taxes, ''willful failure to file'' is among the most serious federal tax crimes -- punishable by up to five years in prison and a $25,000 fine. In other words, if a tax denier truly believes that the 16th Amendment was never ratified or that the law doesn't consider his wages to be income, then he can't be guilty of willfully trying to defraud the government.
 Bernhoft has successfully employed this willfulness defense for several clients, the most recent -- and most famous -- of which was the actor Wesley Snipes. After Snipes had a falling out with his investment adviser in the late '90s, a friend referred him to a tax denier named Eddie Kahn, whose firm, American Rights Litigators, advised clients to use the so-called 861 argument -- which claims (erroneously) that Section 861 of the Internal Revenue Code holds that only income earned outside the country is taxable. Working with Kahn, Snipes did not file tax returns between 1999 and 2004; he also applied for about $7 million in refunds for the years in which he did file. Snipes began recommending Kahn to his own friends and employees, at one point inviting Kahn to his California home to give a seminar on the 861 argument.When Snipes, Kahn and an American Rights Litigators accountant named Doug Rosile were charged with multiple tax felonies in 2006, there was talk of a joint defense; some tax deniers believed that Snipes would emerge as a new spokesman for the tax-honesty movement. 
 But a few weeks before his trial began in January 2008, Snipes dumped his legal team and hired Bernhoft, who constructed a defense for Snipes that threw Kahn, Rosile and the tax-honesty movement under the bus -- blaming them for duping Snipes into believing their bogus arguments. Although Snipes was convicted of three misdemeanor tax charges and was sentenced to three years in prison (a decision currently on appeal), he was acquitted on the felony charges. Kahn and Rosile, on the other hand, were sentenced to 10 and 41/2 years respectively.
 Bernhoft seemed to come out best of all, gaining entry, he hopes, to a new and lucrative pool of potential clients: celebrities. His firm, still headquartered in Milwaukee, last year opened an office in Century City in Los Angeles, and until the relationship ended acrimoniously, represented Joe Francis, the founder of the ''Girls Gone Wild'' video franchise, in a tax-evasion case. ''We're uniquely suited to represent creative people with their unique requirements,'' Bernhoft told me. ''We've always been a perfect fit for the Hollywood and Los Angeles community.''
 In November, when Hendrickson was indicted on the 10 criminal tax charges, he did not seek the counsel of Bernhoft or any of the other lawyers who have had success in defending tax deniers in court. ''Their understanding of the tax law is sketchy at best,'' Hendrickson told me, giving voice to the narcissism of small differences that afflicts the tax-honesty movement. Though he has hired an attorney, the legal arguments that Hendrickson will use in his trial, which is expected to take place later this year, will be those of his own devising. 
 Hendrickson is planning a defense that will incorporate the willfulness argument but also boldly assert the rightness of his interpretation of tax law. In a recent motion to dismiss the charges against him, he recapitulates many of the arguments he makes in ''Cracking the Code'' and claims that the government is prosecuting him in order to curtail his ''free-speech right to write, publish and distribute his book analyzing the tax laws of the United States.'' He told me he would refuse a plea bargain, should he be offered one. ''There isn't any diminished charge that they could offer that wouldn't be equally as bogus as the current ones,'' he said by phone earlier this month. ''Who's going to plea to something that's a complete fabrication?''
 In his legal dealings with the federal government, Hendrickson hasn't always been so uncompromising. In 1992, after being indicted on multiple charges stemming from his involvement in the bomb plot, he pleaded guilty to one charge of conspiracy to possess a destructive device in exchange for the dismissal of charges against Doreen. That plea still would have brought with it a 21-month prison sentence, so Hendrickson took one additional step. He and Doreen, who were now married, surreptitiously tape-recorded conversations they had with their co-conspirators, Scott and Karen Scarborough (who in grand-jury testimony had maintained not only their own innocence but also Hendrickson's). On the recordings, the Scarboroughs, who had not been charged in the case, admitted their involvement in the plot and absolved the Hendricksons of the most serious act: placing the package in the mail bin.
 The Hendricksons turned over the tapes to the prosecutors. Since the recordings were made at the Hendricksons' own initiative, rather than the government's, the Fourth Amendment didn't prohibit the prosecutors from using the tapes to secure convictions against the Scarboroughs for obstruction of justice. In exchange for his cooperation, Hendrickson received a sentence that ultimately was reduced to 30 days in federal prison and 11 months in a halfway house.
 And yet today, Hendrickson doesn't seem to blink at the prospect of going to jail for 50 years, which, at his age, would effectively be a life sentence -- much like Irwin Schiff's. At times, Hendrickson even seems to expect this will be his fate. Peymon Mottahedeh says he expects it will be Hendrickson's fate, too. Although Mottahedeh told me he's rooting for his competitor to be acquitted, he predicts that Hendrickson will be found guilty, if only because ''these tax trials are never conducted in a fair manner.'' And if Hendrickson is found guilty, then Mottahedeh -- who can sometimes be found outside the courtroom at tax-denier trials handing out his business cards -- expects that Freedom Law School will see an uptick in enrollment, as the lost sheep from Hendrickson's flock look for another shepherd. Mottahedeh says he'll welcome them with open arms: ''I'll tell them I wish they had not followed his advice and that I'll try to minimize the damage as best as can be done.''
 But Hendrickson says he holds out hope that, even in the event of his personal downfall, his tax argument will live on. ''People have read 'Cracking the Code,' they've read the law, they know what the truth of the matter is,'' he told me. ''It has nothing to do with whether a jury or a court acknowledges it.'' He is aware that history can redeem heretics. As he put it, when describing how it felt to be in conflict not only with the I.R.S. but also with tax deniers who advance competing theories, ''It's the way, I think, Copernicus probably felt when he was doing his research.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY HATCH SHOW PRINT) (pg.MM42, 43, and 44) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (72%); TEA (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); PRISONS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); BURN INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: PA ACQUISITION CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (52%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1199 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces Defiant World Over Economy on Europe Trip

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama is facing challenges to American power on multiple fronts as he prepares for his first trip overseas since taking office, with the nation's economic woes emboldening allies and adversaries alike.
 Despite his immense popularity around the world, Mr. Obama will confront resentment over American-style capitalism and resistance to his economic prescriptions when he lands in London on Tuesday for the Group of 20 summit meeting of industrial and emerging market nations plus the European Union.
 The president will not even try to overcome NATO's unwillingness to provide more troops in Afghanistan when he goes on later in the week to meet with the military alliance. 
 He seems unlikely to return home with any more to show for his attempts to open a dialogue with Iran's leaders, who have, so far, responded with tough words, albeit not tough enough to persuade Russia to support the United States in tougher sanctions against Tehran. And he will be tested in face-to-face meetings by the leaders of China and Russia, who have been pondering the degree to which the power of the United States to dominate global affairs may be ebbing. 
 Mr. Obama is unlikely to push for specific commitments from other countries on stimulus spending to bolster their own economies, White House officials acknowledged Saturday in a teleconference call, despite the fact that administration officials would like to see European countries, in particular, increase their spending to try to prompt a glo-bal economic recovery. 
 ''Nobody is asking any country to come to London to commit to do more right now,'' said Michael Froman, deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs. Instead, world leaders at the meeting will try to ''do whatever is necessary to restore global growth,'' Mr. Froman said.
 The challenges stem in part from lingering unhappiness around the world at the way the Bush administration used American power. But they have been made more intense by the sense in many capitals that the United States is no longer in any position to dictate to other nations what types of economic policies to pursue -- or to impose its will more generally as it intensifies the war in Afghanistan and extracts itself from Iraq.
 ''There is a direct challenge under way to the paradigms that America has been trying to sell to the rest of the world,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a former China division chief at the International Monetary Fund. The American banking collapse, which precipitated the global meltdown, has led to a fundamental rethinking of the American way as a model for the rest of the world. Yet even as his presence stirs opposition to particular American policies, Mr. Obama is being welcomed by many Europeans as an embodiment of American ideals. 
 In Prague, where Mr. Obama will stop later in the week, local officials are installing a hot line for residents to find out about street closings. In Strasbourg, France, site of a NATO meeting, protesters are planning an ''international resistance camp'' with antiwar actions designed to press Mr. Obama to get American troops out of Afghanistan. In Istanbul, his last stop, workers are polishing up the Hagia Sophia basilica-cum-mosque-cum-museum for the expected visit. 
 ''The rest of the world is yearning for him,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard economist. ''On the one hand, they'll all be criticizing him, and criticizing the American model. But they all want to hear that he does have a miracle to deliver.''
 The quandary has left senior advisers to Mr. Obama scrambling to come up with a way for him to project both American power and the new cooperative international model that his aides have been promising. 
 Mr. Obama will try to show confidence that his stimulus and economic program will work, administration officials said, while conceding that it may take time. He will say that he has put all the pieces in place to fix the American economy, while acknowledging that in a global system nations cannot put up walls to protect their individual economies. 
 Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, said the president ''must demonstrate to the world that he understands that it's not just about saving ourselves.'' 
 And Mr. Obama must try to do all of that in the middle of a global recession for which most of the world blames the United States. ''The U.S. brand name has clearly suffered from this crisis, and the rest of the world is no longer willing to sit quietly and be lectured by the United States on how they should conduct economic policy,'' Mr. Rogoff said.
 A senior Obama administration official acknowledged that it would be harder for Mr. Obama to exhort other countries to adopt the American model. But Robert Gibbs, the White House spokesman, said Saturday in the conference call that Mr. Obama ''is going to listen in London, as well as to lead.''
 ''Many of the things we've done in the past week demonstrate that America is leading by example,'' he said. 
 In the past, American officials traveled to India, Brazil, China and South Africa and lectured government officials on the need for open markets, free trade and deregulation. But now some of those very policies -- particularly deregulation -- are viewed as the culprits for the recent economic collapse. 
 ''Emerging markets now think they can do what they want without hectoring from the United States,'' said Mr. Prasad, the former monetary fund official.
 Compounding the problem for Mr. Obama is that the route that he has chosen to lead the United States out of the mess -- heavy government spending -- is not available to many other countries. European governments, for instance, are far more lukewarm about enormous stimulus programs because they already have strong social safety nets, and more fears of inflation, than does the United States.
 So when Mr. Obama meets with other world leaders in London, he will be confronting a philosophical divide, with the United States on the defensive not just on economic issues like trade and financial regulation but also on a variety of national security and diplomatic matters.
 After he leaves London, Mr. Obama will go to the French-German border for a NATO meeting at a time when European governments, under pressure from their populations, are looking for the exit doors in Afghanistan even as the United States sends more troops and money. 
 Administration officials had initially said they hoped to get more troop contributions at the NATO meeting; now they do not even talk about securing more troops from the Europeans, in a tacit acknowledgment that the forces will not be coming.
 ''I hope that Afghanistan will not be Obama's war, because it should be owned by all of us,'' said NATO's secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. 
 But there are already twice as many American troops as NATO troops in Afghanistan, and ''Europe will never be able to match the numbers of the Americans in Afghanistan,'' Mr. de Hoop Scheffer said. The NATO summit meeting, he said, ''will not be about troop contributions.''
 In Prague, Mr. Obama will confront an Eastern Europe nervous about Russian attempts to reassert itself in an area that Moscow views as its backyard. Mr. Obama has taken pains to reassure Russia that his administration will tread carefully regarding Bush administration plans to locate a missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic. 
 Yet in placating Russia, Mr. Obama has raised hackles in Poland, where officials seek closer ties to the United States. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LONDON: A protest of the Group of 20 meeting on Saturday. Trade unions and foes of globalization and war have planned marches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009



1200 of 1286 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE HILL; Pg. 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Battle Brewing Over Reconciliation, Which Is Anything but That

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The term ''reconciliation'' typically conveys a sense of rapprochement reminiscent of restored ties between the United States and China or Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis. But in Congress, reconciliation can mean the opposite, conjuring up relationships more along the lines of Yankees-Red Sox or Microsoft versus Apple.
 Republicans are in a tizzy because Democrats are threatening to use the budgetary procedure known as reconciliation -- it reconciles policy with fiscal guidelines -- to overhaul the health care system, possibly enact climate change legislation and rewrite education policy. 
 They have good reason to fret: If Democrats successfully invoke reconciliation, such major bills could pass by a simple majority vote, denying Republicans the filibuster, their sole remaining weapon to influence federal policy given the Democratic grip on government.
 ''It stinks,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said as he pondered the prospect of Democrats pulling the trigger on reconciliation.
 But there are a couple of problems for Republicans as they push back furiously against the idea, chief of which is the fact that they used the process themselves on several occasions, notably when enacting more than $1 trillion in tax cuts in 2001.
 That means critics can have a field day lampooning Republicans and asking them -- as Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent, did repeatedly the other day -- why reconciliation was such a good idea when it came to giving tax cuts to millionaires but such a bad one when it comes to trying to provide health care to average Americans.
 The record is also replete with past statements by Republicans such as Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the party's leader on budget issues, praising the logic of reconciliation. 
 ''We are using the rules of the Senate here,'' Mr. Gregg said in 2005 as he fought off Democratic complaints that reconciliation was wrongly being employed to block filibusters against opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. ''Is there something wrong with majority rules? I don't think so.'' 
 But he and other Republicans, with some Democrats concurring, say that using reconciliation to accomplish Mr. Obama's sweeping objectives would distort the intent of a procedure intended mainly to lower the deficit, not restructure the national economy.
 ''It is not appropriate to use reconciliation, which cuts off the role of the Senate, on something as broad and extensive as rewriting the health care laws of this country,'' said Mr. Gregg in one of his many attempts to explain why he is against reconciliation after he was for it.
 But the long record of Republican support for fast-tracking budget-related bills definitely dilutes their ability to challenge Democrats on the issue. They have to hope that enough Senate Democrats stick to their view that it would be too divisive to use the Senate short-cut on policy as fundamental as health care changes or a new cap on carbon pollution. 
 Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Budget Committee, has taken that position as has Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the chairman of the committee that would have to write a good chunk of any health care measure. Other Senate centrists have challenged the reconciliation notion as well, raising the possibility that Democrats might not be able to pass a final budget if it allows for the filibuster end-run.
 The resistance of some Senate Democrats is infuriating many House members and officials of the Obama administration. They believe it would be downright foolish for Democrats to give up their best leverage when Republicans have so far shown little inclination to cooperate with them or Mr. Obama on major legislation. 
 At minimum, they say, reconciliation has to remain on the table to force Republicans to get serious about working with Democrats. As a result, House Democrats included the possibility of reconciliation in their budget and hope to force it into the final version during negotiations with the Senate.
 Some Republicans have likened the building struggle over budget reconciliation to the 2005 Senate fight over Democratic filibusters against judicial nominees chosen by President George W. Bush. 
 Frustrated at the opposition, Republicans warned they would invoke the ''nuclear option'' and change Senate rules to ban filibusters against executive branch nominations. Democrats characterized that as an assault on the very nature of the Senate and threatened to bring the chamber to a standstill if Republicans followed through with their plan. 
 The showdown was averted. But now that they are in the minority, some Republicans have begun suggesting that if Democrats insist on reconciliation, Republicans will gum up the Senate works to the greatest extent possible, using their remaining procedural rights to essentially shut down the Senate.
 Democrats note that Republicans are already doing a good job of slowing business in the Senate. They say that maneuvers like forcing clerks to read bills in their entirety and other dilatory tactics would cement once and for all the Republican image as obstructionists.
 Republicans have another hurdle as well. The so-called nuclear option represented a change in Senate rules. As Mr. Gregg noted in 2005, reconciliation already is allowed by the rules and Republicans have relied on it many times, a point that Democrats like House Speaker Nancy Pelosi intend to make again and again.
 ''Some of these same people on the Republican side didn't have a problem with it -- and we have their quotes -- when President Bush wanted to push forward his tax cuts to the wealthiest people in America,'' Ms. Pelosi said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); POLITICS (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); WILDLIFE (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (77%); JERRY LEWIS (72%); JOHN CORNYN (57%); BERNIE SANDERS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ARCTIC (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2009

 
